ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u1	Good afternoon! There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear Mr. President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Prime Minister in resignation and Ministers in resignation, Your Holiness, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Constitutional Court, Members of the National Assembly, Your Excellencys, Dear Guests! I open the plenary session of the National Assembly with a first item on the agenda: TRADE CEREMONIA BY CONVERSATION OF THE KICK OF NEW BOOKS PRESENTED TO THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA RUMEN RADEV AND THE NEW VICE-ORGANIZED TO THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA ILYAN YOTOVA. According to the National Assembly Decision of 18 January 2017, the solemn ceremony is delivered directly on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio. I ask that the newly elected President and Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria be ordered in the plenary. Mr. Radev and Mrs. Yotova. [[Applause. Everyone gets up.]] Dear Members of the House, honored guests of the ceremony! It's okay, it's okay, ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 4033-JHA of 15 November 2016 to the Central Election Commission on the declaration of the final results of the elections as President and Vice President of the Republic and the names of the elected President and Vice President of the Republic On the basis of art. Art. 93 94 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 311, p. Art. 5 and art. 344 of the Election Code and Decision No 3984-JHA of 8 November 2016, Decision No 3992-JHA of 10 November 2016, Decision No 3995-JHA of 10 November 2016 and Decision No 4032-JHA of 15 November 2016, the Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announces as elected President of the Republic of Bulgaria Rumen Georgiev Radev. [[Applause from BSP LB, DPS and ABB.]] Announces as Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria Iliana Malinova Yotova. [[Applause from BSP LB, DPS and ABB.]] Mr. Radev, please come to the stand for an oath. Please repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u2	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u3	Congratulations, Mr. Radev. [[Applause. President Tsetska Tsacheva and Vice-Presidents Dimitar Glauchev, Yanaki Stoilov, Ivan Ivanov and Krasimir Karakachanov greet President Rumen Radev. The President kisses the cross, baptizes and kisses the hand of Patriarch Neofit.]] Please sign the affidavit. (The President signs the affidavit.) And now I ask Mrs. Yotova to take an oath. Repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u4	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u5	Congratulations, Mrs. Yotova. [[Applause. President Tsetska Tsacheva and Vice-Presidents Dimitar Glauchev, Yanaki Stoilov, Ivan Ivanov and Krasimir Karakachanov greet Vice-President Iliana Yotova. The Vice President kisses the cross, is baptized and greets Patriarch Neofit and Prime Minister Boyko Borisov.]] Please sign the affidavit. [[Vice President signs the affidavit.]] Let's hear the hymns of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Union. (The anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Union sound.) Dear Mr. Radev, elected President of the Republic of Bulgaria, you have the floor to speak to the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u6	Dear Mr. President, honourable Vice President, honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Prime Minister in resignation, Your Holiness, ladies and gentlemen Members of the Constitutional Court, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers in resignation, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Your excellences, Generals and Admirals, dear compatriots! Let me first of all thank you for the confidence to be president of a country with 13 centuries of history, to be the head of state of a multi-faceted people in which ethnicities and religions have coexisted for centuries, but refuse to humble political passions. Many today say that times are difficult, but life seems to be arranged only in the frozen pages of history when it is retold in past times. Politics always happens at the present alarming time. It depends on the ability of millions of citizens to realise their common interests, on the loyalty of politicians to the people, on their morality to overcome their personal gain and ego in the name of the public interest, on their will to defend even irreconcilable positions in the name of the well-being of Bulgaria. It's the logic of democracy. The state is built with a build-up, so I would like to express my gratitude to what my predecessors have achieved. "Zelyo Zhelev, Petar Stoyanov, Georgi Parvanov and Rosen Plevneliev. Every generation has its trials. The transition turned out to be our lot. He brought capital social changes. A new Constitution has been adopted. It established democratic principles, pluralism and the separation of authorities. Economic reforms, albeit painful, have led to the transformation of the planned economy into a market. Bulgaria has achieved important strategic goals: membership in the European Union and NATO. From a panoramic perspective, the country has implemented the programme of historical transition, but panoramic vision is a privilege of politicians, an instrument of analysts. The ordinary citizen's gaze sees otherwise. We used to vote, but many today do not see the point in doing so. We've put up with the electoral abuse. We have a multiparty system, but parties are more than ideas for Bulgaria. Business parties appeared, laboratory political projects, foreign pilgrimage formations. Party genetics at the dawn of the transition seemed more authentic than today's political GMOs-kitchen, and the alienation of the citizens of the political class is a graceful soil for populism. The erosion of Bulgarian democracy is an escalating problem. The referendum held in November 2016, although it remained below the legal threshold for validity, showed that Bulgarians want personalities in parliament and limiting party subsidies. It is the responsibility of the Members of the National Assembly to find a solution to these civic expectations. The reform of the Election Code should be such that it does not create more problems than it is trying to decide to increase the individual responsibility of the MPs before the voters, to offer citizens a choice between personalities, but not to leave hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians without political representation. Money for parties should be significantly limited, but with a clear awareness that, deprived of reasonable funding, parties will become even more dependent on lobbyists and external factors. Lack of justice is another structural problem of Bulgarian society. It is everywhere in the dramatic precipice between the poor and the rich, in contrast between the capital and the villages, in the miserable state of the Bulgarian Northwest, in the sense of social doom, unpunished corruption and abuse of power. Injustice is among the main motives for emigration. Public expectations are focused on the judiciary, which is called upon to be a pillar of justice. Here the eyes of the European partners and that of the Bulgarian citizens see the same justice is slow, the public authority of the judiciary is low, wide sense of impunity. I believe that judicial reform should be the priority of the next National Assembly and achieve clear objectives: fast, fair and independent justice, but only the change in the structure of the judiciary does not solve the problems of justice. A complex approach is needed, improvement of procedural laws, ensuring the required number of magistrates, increased responsibility in the system, decisive anti-corruption measures. At the same time, judicial reform should not be seen as a panacea for dealing with the disabilities in our society. Without the combined efforts of the institutions, parties and civil structures and without the intransigence of society, there is no way to deal with corruption and crime. The shadow of injustice lies on both of the most important social systems of health and education. The reforms carried out did not create working mechanisms. The chances of a child from the big city are unparalleled with those of his age from the village without school and without a doctor. In healthcare, we are reporting more and more separate funds, but the average patient often encounters additional payments, waiting and poor health services. Bulgarian doctors emigrate widely. The system needs strict control, less bureaucracy, professional morality to restore patients' trust and motivation to open the perspective of doctors and nurses here in Bulgaria. Education should contribute to the equal start of Bulgarian children, regardless of the material state of the families. Alas, here also the ordinary Bulgarian encounters a formal learning process and additional payment. The results are early dropout and functional illiterateness. The teacher's low social status is an essential part of the system's problems. Higher education clearly requires optimization of numerous higher schools. Student seats are more than candidates for them. On the labour market, diplomas and scientific titles without coverage have a harmful effect, comparable to counterfeit money in the economy. The united efforts of the state, the academic community and the business for the development of young people are needed to meet the challenges of the future, not only with memorized knowledge, but also with skills for independent, creative thinking and adaptability. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u7	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u8	Bulgarian science is among the unloved children of the transition. The suggestion that only the market must determine its financing is a result of ignorance. The own scientific expertise is an element of national sovereignty without which we put the country depending. A number of scientific activities do not have immediate market projection, but are vital to society. We must preserve and develop Bulgaria's scientific potential by stimulating the working links between students and scientists and adequate funding of the scientific programs. Culture, along with education, is the other pillar of national identity. State support is imperative for the survival and development of our culture in the age of globalisation. The Bulgarian transition coincided with the triumph of market economy worldwide. But is the Bulgarian economy market to date? The mechanisms for protection of competition are obviously working poorly, the cartelization is tangible in many areas. Consumer protection is insufficiently guaranteed by the law, administrative burdens hinder business. The Bulgarian economy seems sustainable, taxes are low, growth is there, albeit far from what is needed to make up for our overall slowdown. But this is where the ordinary citizen's gaze sees otherwise. Tens of thousands of Bulgarians are in gurbets to feed their families. The lack of an active regional policy leads to economic and social necrosis of vast regions. In many villages, the creed returned. Corruption and the uncertain regulatory environment deter foreign investors. The poverty of thousands of Bulgarians is a reproach to all of us. It also breeds crime. Businesses need real competition and limited but active regulation, and Bulgarians deserve a decent pay. The debt and impoverishment of households undermines the medium-term perspective of society. The transition is a difficult test for the Bulgarians, but in the desert of transition we should not abandon the more weak and the poorest. Among them are people with disabilities and pensioners. The economic logic, according to which weak people are a burden to society, must give way to understanding that the weak are just keeping our humanity awake. A society that abandons solidarity is doomed to spiritual bankruptcy. Unsolved problems of transition have become a devastating demographic crisis. It can only be overcome with complex measures in the field of economics, education, health, mass sport, culture, harmonious development of regions and municipalities and social policies limiting poverty and exclusion. Measures to reduce mortality and increase birth rates cannot solve the problem on their own. It is important to create the conditions under which young people should stay in Bulgaria, to create families and to give birth to their children here, and Bulgarians living abroad should not break the spiritual bond with their homeland. I will work with all of our countrymen abroad to feel the support and care of Bulgaria, regardless of which end of the world they are in. Ladies and gentlemen, as president, I have no ambition to exceed my constitutional powers, but I will not allow their cutting or actual disinfecting. I understand clearly that the Head of State is essentially deprived of legislative and executive powers, but no institution alone is capable of achieving major national objectives. The Presidential institution focuses a wide range of functions and has powers over the three authorities. I will use all opportunities to promote dialogue and interaction between the institutions, political and public forces, because not the party monopoly on the institutions, but the balance and cooperation between the authorities and the dialogue with civil society are a guarantee for the democratic development and prosperity of our country. I will stimulate public debates on important topics and seek maximum agreement in decision making, I will see to it that the institutions work for the long-term interests of the country, not to replace the nation's priorities in the name of short-term goals. I will be president of all Bulgarians, regardless of party affiliation, religion and ethnicity. I will stand up for the overparty of the institution and strongly oppose the attempts to divide and polarize our society. The Bulgarian Constitution assigns the President important prerogatives in the field of foreign policy and security. National security is a comprehensive system. It starts from foreign policy, continues with the security of national borders and ends with ensuring the order in the country and ensuring the peace, freedom and dignity of the individual citizen. Bulgaria is today a member of the European Union and NATO. Membership in both unions is a strategic choice that should not be questioned. It rests on shared values and responsibilities with other partners, but effective membership implies a clear awareness and consistent support of national interest within the two families with active participation in the development of common solutions. Bulgarian foreign policy should be formulated in Bulgaria and defended outside, not vice versa. This policy should be open to the world and earn friends and partners, not enemies. Bulgaria has the potential to strengthen its active role in Southeast Europe with initiatives and actions to increase the security, co-operation and economic development of the region. The past year was marked by the British vote for leaving the European Union and the migrant crisis. The two events put the Union to the test. Anti-European sentiments are growing. We used to charge as populism any sharp criticism of European institutions and policies, but the number of dissatisfied only increases. I am convinced that a united Europe must be preserved at all costs. The contrary would mean an unforgivable waste of historical time. The answer to all crises is in our solidarity efforts to overcome them. The upcoming Presidency of the Council of the European Union is a challenge, but also a huge opportunity for Bulgaria, requiring responsibility and united efforts at all levels. The Migrant crisis requires a common and decisive European policy. So far, we have separate actions, but not a comprehensive policy. In view of this, I believe that decisive measures are needed to strengthen the border, to cross illegal human trafficking and to limit the number of illegal migrants on our territory. Bulgaria must defend for revision of the Dublin Agreement, which gives the Union's peripheral countries the role of buffer zone. It is obvious that the crisis between the European Union and NATO, on the one hand, and Russia, on the other. Strengthening confrontation is not the way to solve it. Cold War is a sad experience from the past. In this context, I believe that the Head of State's role is not to raise concerns and point out an enemy, but to help resolve the crisis with the mechanisms of the unions in which we are members. I believe that the results of the presidential elections in the United States and the new political situation in the world give hope for a speedy return to dialogue. The past year was also marked by the bloody war in Syria, which raised the degrees of military opposition to a historical peak in the post-Cold War period. The conflict in Eastern Ukraine is smoldering. An attempt at a coup has been thwarted in neighbouring Turkey. Terrorist attacks have become part of the sad chronicles in Europe and the Middle East. The guarantee of the security of Bulgaria and the Bulgarians becomes a priority task. The regulatory framework adopted to define a single national security system was an important step forward. There are still a number of issues concerning tasks, structure, functional links, governance and interaction between different bodies and bodies engaged in defence and public order. This leads to problems in control and coordination, reduced efficiency and over-costing of resources. Efforts are needed to ensure the professional training and motivation of the Ministry of Interior and the security services so that they work effectively to protect national interests, especially in the fight against crime and corruption. Growing up in the hierarchy should be based on sufficient experience and proven professionalism, not political loyalty. As High Commander, I will work to build Armed Forces capable not only of being worthy of NATO collective defence but also of guaranteeing the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the country. After a long delay we can finally boast of accepted investment projects and guaranteed funding for the re-arming of part of the Bulgarian army. I will closely monitor the actions of the responsible institutions because in this complex process and the choice of new weapons will depend on our defense capabilities for decades to come. The realization of the projects should be useful not only for defence, but also for the whole society, should be accompanied by a contribution to the country's economic development by deploying industrial cooperation programmes, introducing high technologies, creating new jobs and stimulating the Bulgarian defence industry. The financial provision of re-arming must by no means be taken away from the problems of defence. The acquisition of modern weapons is a necessary but insufficient condition for modernization of the army. Solving the decades-old problems requires a systematic and comprehensive approach. There is a need to improve the legal framework, the organizational structure of the Armed Forces, the system of military education and training. It must be clear that civil control does not mean civil government. Military expertise should take a proper place in the process of planning and development of defence. I will work to improve the social status of the servicemen and to suspend the acquiring dangerous proportions of the military profession. I will insist on conducting real combat training as the most important element of modern defense capabilities. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Words are devalued by overuse. My credo is a few words, but effective actions! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You have one more week. [[Laughter, loud and violent applause from BSP LB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u9	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u10	I am convinced that we will not solve problems with a thorny declaration, but with precise diagnoses and concrete measures. [[Noise and lines. MPs from PF, RB and GERB leave the hall.]] In our country there are still politicians fighting battles with the past the close and distant. These battles give birth to false heroes. Business with the past is part of the chaos. Fatalism is another weakness of ours, but let us not forget that Bulgaria has survived 13 centuries at a historical and geographical crossroads. What more convincing evidence that knowledge that apathy is not our innate vice? She's a weakness we're going to fight. Dear compatriots, you have entrusted me with the most responsible mission. I believe that being a Bulgarian is not a fate, being a Bulgarian is an honor. Together with Vice President Mrs. Yotova, we will put all our strength to justify your trust. I am convinced that with the talent of the nation, with a clear vision, with reasonable reforms and with common efforts we will build a fairer society and turn Bulgaria into a modern, dynamic, prosperous state in which free and decent citizens will fulfill their dreams. Thank you! [[Applause from BSP LB and DPS. The guests from the balcony stand up and applaud.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u11	Dear Mr. Radev, elected President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mrs. Yotova, elected Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria! First of all, I would like, on behalf of myself and on behalf of the Members of the National Assembly in the Forty-third National Assembly, to wish you success! In the current domestic and foreign policy situation, this wish, believe me, is not just a protocol phrase. You are taking office in a situation of preparation for early parliamentary elections. As you said, there is another week of life for the forty-third National Assembly. In the first days of your term of office, you will fulfill your constitutional obligation to disband Parliament, schedule early parliamentary elections and appoint a caretaker government. In this way, in a few months, the presidential institution will be responsible for the entire executive power. After the disbandment of the Forty- Third National Assembly, the caretaker government will not be controlled and supported by a working parliament. In this situation you will have to act as both his corrective and his support. This is a huge responsibility to the Bulgarian society. Along with the daily duties that the caretaker government will have to carry out, it will also have its main task to organise fair, democratic elections. I hope that through your appointed office you will assist in reducing the political tensions that naturally accompany any election campaign. Such an approach would allow Bulgaria, after the early parliamentary elections, to have a legitimate, stable and working regular government to share, together with you and the elected Forty-fourth National Assembly, responsibility for the country's governance and development. Today, Bulgaria faces a number of challenges posed by international instability. In this context, from the first day of your term of office, you will have the obligation to deal with important and comprehensive tasks. Your actions will depend on the protection of the national interest and security of Bulgarian citizens. As a newly elected president, you have the legitimacy of public trust to make difficult decisions. I wish you to preserve and extend this trust throughout your term. It is the most important instrument for implementing any political idea. I wish you to be president of all Bulgarian citizens, regardless of their political bias, ethnic origin and religious beliefs. I wish you once again success, Mr. Radev, Mrs. Yotova, because the success of your mandate will be success for all Bulgarian citizens! Dear Members of Parliament, honored guests, this concludes the solemn part of today's plenary session. After recess, we proceed at 11:20. [[Applause.]] (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u12	Dear colleagues, we are continuing with the actual program of the National Assembly. I hope we can get it done in a week. [[crowd cheering in the hall.]] SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION LAW. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2016. Adopted in the first vote on 21 December 2016. Continue. The second vote report will introduce us to Mr. Ivanov. Before that, the procedure. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov. I hope it's not the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u13	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am making a procedural proposal to ask the Quaestors to invite the left of the National Assembly. After all, it's just been remembered they have another week. Let the coworkers come back and work.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u14	Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u15	We have voted on the name of the Law and the admission to plenary. There is a proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and does not support the proposal under point 1. 2: "2." In para. 6 after the words. do not refer to.. the condition of the components under art. 4 and the factors referred to in art. 5, the interaction between them, including the information on The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20, para. 1, t. 5 and 6 before the word.... is added to their
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u16	Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, since we have one week left, I ask for a name check so that all colleagues can arrive in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u18	Even if there is not a week left, you still have the right to have such a procedure before the vote. I'm asking for the list. Name check. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - absent Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - absent Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - here Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov - here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - absent Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - here Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Lyubenova Sokolova - absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - here Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - absent Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - absent Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - absent Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - absent Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - here Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - here Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - absent Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - absent Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - here Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev- Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussain Abu Melih - here Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - absent Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - here Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stefan Stynov Zhelev - here Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - here Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - here Teodora Radkova Georgieva - absent Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - here Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - here Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - absent Hristo Georgiev Todorov - here Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - absent Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - here Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - here Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - here Yavor Iliev Haytov - absent Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - here Ianko Alexandrov Iankov here We have a quorum, we can proceed. Mr. Svilen Ivanov, come in with the report. First of all, we are about to vote on unbeatable item two of the proposal of the MP Chavdar Georgiev. They voted 125 MPs: 41, against 43, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1 with its respective content, according to the report of the Committee on Environment and Water. They voted 122 MPs: 120, none, abstention 2. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u19	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2, and shall propose the following wording: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 81 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinei 5 s 7 are amended as follows: For the plans, programmes and investment proposals or their amendments or extensions covered by the assessments under para. An assessment of the compatibility under Article 1 shall also be carried out. 31 of the Biodiversity Act. (6) Implementation of the EIA of investment proposals for construction, activities and technologies pursuant to Annexes 1 and 2 in parts of investment proposals where they are solely for national defence purposes or investment proposals resulting from natural phenomena within the meaning of § 1, item 6. 1 of the additional provisions of the Disaster Protection Act shall be assessed on a case-by-case basis. The assessment not to carry out an EIA shall be motivated by a decision of the Council of Ministers on a reasoned proposal by the Minister of Environment and Water and the relevant competent authority under a special law, taking into account the expected adverse impact that the EIA would have on the objectives of national defence or response to natural phenomena. (7) Except for the cases referred to in art. 98 the EIA procedures for investment proposals may, in exceptional cases, not be conducted on a proposal from the competent authority where the proposals are approved under a procedure involving such an assessment and provided public access to the information. The proposal for an exemption shall take into account the expected adverse impact that the EIA would have on the objectives of the investment proposal. 2. The creation of para. 8. In the cases referred to in para. 7. 1. the competent authority shall motivate whether another such assessment is appropriate; 2. the competent authority shall provide the public concerned with the information obtained through the evaluation under point 2. 1 as well as information on the decision to grant an exemption and on the reasons and reasons for the exemption; 3. Before consenting, the Minister of Environment and Water shall inform the European Commission of the reasons for the exemption and shall provide the information referred to in paragraph 3. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u20	Do you have the floor for speeches, fellow Members? There are no speeches. We are voting § 1 by importer, which, after support and editing by the Commission, becomes § 2 in its report. Vote 108 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 1. Paragraph 2 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u21	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 4. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 5 and shall propose the following wording: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 94 the following 1. In para. 1 is created t. 7. "7." in cases where the Director of the RIEW is a contracting entity. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The Director of the relevant RIEW shall be a competent authority for the decision of the EIA on investment proposals, extensions or changes other than those referred to in para. 1 as well as when the Minister of Environment and Water is a contracting entity. 3. The creation of para. 3: The law on the prevention and detection of conflicts of interest shall apply to persons participating in EIA procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u22	Statements? I won't. We are voting on paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 on the Commission report. They voted 109 MPs: 106, none, abstention 3. Paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u23	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 10. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11 and shall propose the following wording: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. In the cases referred to in para. 4 and 5 the Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency shall, within 14 days of receipt of the request, notify the operator in writing whether the request is partial or fully respected and shall set a period of up to 5 days for the submission of a revised version of the documents in paper and electronic form for the purposes of public access which does not contain the information which has been accepted as confidential. In cases referred to in art. 114, para. 1 at the same time as the corrected and supplemented documents, a revised version of documents for public access purposes shall be submitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u24	Statements? I won't. We vote paragraphs 6 to 11 inclusive. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraphs 6 to 11 including the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u25	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13. According to § 13 there is a proposal of the MPs Ivan Cholakov and Valentin Radev: In Annex 1 to art. 92, p. 1 the following amendments shall be made: "1." A new t. is created. 38 with the following text: "38." Undertakings/ equipment with low or high risk potential for technological activities and/or storage of ammunition and explosives. 2. The current point 38 becomes 39. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u26	Statements? I won't. We are voting, first, the unsupported proposal of the MPs Ivan Cholakov and Valentin Radev. We are voting unsupported by the Commission for a proposal. They voted 100 MPs: 21, against 3, abstention 76. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 12, 13 and 14 by importer, fully supported by the Commission. By importer, it is actually another numbering, and this is according to the Commission's report, paragraphs 12, 13 and 14 of the Commission's report. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraphs 12, 13 and 14 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u27	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from the National Representative Svilen Ivanov, made in accordance with Article 14. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in its version until 4 November: In Annex 2 to art. 81, para. 1, t. 2 ct. 11, b. The following is amended as follows: (h) an undertaking (s) for the production, storage, disposal and/or destruction of explosives and articles thereof; The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 15 and shall propose the following wording: ...... 15.................................................... In Annex 2 to art. 93, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 point (e) is amended as follows: (e) extraction or industrial installations for coal, oil, natural gas, ores and shales; 2. In point (a), point (a) (a) in point (b) the words (s) (s) (not included in Annex 1) (s) shall be deleted; (b) in point (d) "the words " (not included in Annex 1)' are deleted; (c) in point (e) of the first subparagraph, the words "not included in Annex 1' are deleted; 3. In point (a), point (a) (a) in point (b) the words (s) (s) (not included in Annex 1) (s) shall be deleted; (b) in point (d), the words "not included in Annex 1' are deleted; (c) in point (d) the words (s) (not included in Annex 1) shall be deleted; (d) in point (e) the words "s) ', "not included in Annex 1', are deleted; (e) in point 4. In point (a), point (a) (a) in the text prior to the letter (s), the words (s) not included in Annex 1 shall be deleted and the brackets shall be deleted; (b) point (b) is amended as follows: (b) packaging and storage of plant and animal products; 5. In point (a), point (a) (a) in point (b) the words (s) (s) (not included in Annex 1) (s) shall be deleted; (b) in (i) in (ii) in (iii) in (iv) in (iv) in (iv) in (v) in (vi) in (v) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in 6. In point (a), point (a) is (a) in point (j) after the word (s), the Union (s) shall be replaced by (s) shall be replaced by (s) shall be replaced by (s) shall be replaced by (s) shall be replaced by (s) the Union; (b) in point (c) in point (d), point (e) is amended as follows: In addition, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the European Food Safety Authority (hereinafter "the Authority') and in particular with regard to the application of Regulation (EC) No 1829/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council 7. In point (a), point (a) is in point (b) (i) after the word "disability', the words "disability' shall be added; (b) in point (j), the words (j) and (j) of Annex I shall be deleted; (c) point (s) is amended as follows: (h) an undertaking (s) for the production, storage, disposal and/or destruction of explosives and articles thereof; (d) point (s) is amended as follows: s) plants for disposal or recovery of animal carcasses or animal waste; (e) point (d) is repealed; (f) point (b) (iii) is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u28	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! What we are going to vote on in a moment is extremely important, as it defines the scope of some preventive procedures that ensure the protection of environmental components. My speech relates to the canceled letter and the letter............................................................................................ I do not believe that these grounds should be repealed. In principle, we are currently expanding the range of hypotheses in which different procedures will be applied. In my opinion, this is the correct trend for regulating these relations, and we must be extremely caring about the components of the environment. That is why I believe that the letter........................................... should not be cancelled.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u30	These are the last two, aren't they?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u31	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I therefore ask that we vote separately on these two points, that they remain, not be canceled, and that everything else be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u32	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? The importers asked to be treated. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u33	Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you! The proposal for changes as a whole in the positions of Annex 1 and Annex 2 of the Law is to be in absolute compliance with the EIA Directive. What we have found in the review of the positions is that without having specific motives, these applications, for example, about one third of the positions or 16 specific activities, are laid down in our EIA mandatory Annex 1, which does not require the EIA Directive. In principle, there are different mechanisms, not only EIA procedures that regulate such activities. Specifically on Mr. Georgiev's proposal, the position refers to plant protection products cutting plants, and Mr. Georgiev is a storage warehouse for plant protection products. So these are specific positioned structures where we realize that there is a specific storage of products. To what extent a procedure for assessing the need to carry out an EIA can be motivated precisely for such storage facilities. In other words, we have offered to drop out because in the EIA sub-directive we do not have such a mandatory requirement as a country.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u34	Thank you. The proposal is for a split vote. The explanations were timely and appropriate so that you could navigate how to vote on these two points..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I am voting on the Commission's report. Please vote. Vote 100 MPs: 81 against 16, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I propose a re-vote procedure. I would like to take this opportunity to say that if we do not drop out of business points and points, we will not achieve the goal of reducing the administrative burden on business. This is one of the objectives set out in the Law, in addition to the full transposition of the directive, reducing the administrative burden on business.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u36	I get it. Before the re-voting procedure, however, I made a mistake. I shall put first to a vote whether to vote separately on these points or to vote in full on the text of the Commission. If we vote separately, I'll put the text to re-vote. We are voting whether we accept the proposal of MP Chavdar Georgiev for a split vote on the text. They voted 105 MPs: 28 against 40, abstention 39. The proposal is not accepted, which means there will be no revoting. We are voting for the entire Commission text on § 15 on its report. They voted 104 MPs: 85, none, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm asking for a re-vote. Colleagues, it's about unloading the business! So I call on the BSP to vote on conscience. Then, if you could take a break.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u38	It's not an hour from the start. Here you are, Mr. Georgiev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u39	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making an obnoxious proposal not to reschedule what has already been voted by the National Assembly, because, understand, this is not about any administrative burden. Pesticides and other plant protection preparations are particularly dangerous chemicals. We can't at least not give them an assessment of the EIA. That's the whole question. That is why I propose an editorial proposal, Mr President, which does not include the points referred to so.................................................................................................. Let us vote on this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u40	So, you want to drop these points?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u41	Dropping these points as editing. Understand, the arguments that this is not in the directive mean nothing. The directive has principles, the directive has objectives to achieve environmental protection and this is fully in line with the objectives. I am therefore making this editorial proposal to vote on the text without these two points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u42	Do you have another procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u43	My procedure, Mr. Chairman, is simply to postpone this point and proceed with the bill further until we are clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u44	I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Stanislav Ivanov to postpone the vote on this point in order to clarify the text. There's no quorum. Cancel the vote. Name check. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Ana Georgieva Barakova - absent Angel Petrov Naydenov - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - absent Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - here Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - here Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danylov Georgiev - absent Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - here Georgi Ivanov Andonov - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov - here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - absent Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - absent Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - here Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - absent Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - here Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Lyubenova Sokolova - absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - absent Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - absent Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - absent Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - absent Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - absent Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - here Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - here Saliha Hakif Emin - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - here Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussain Abu Melih - here Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - absent Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - absent Stefan Georgiev Kenov - here Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stefan Stynov Zhelev - here Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - absent Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - absent Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - here Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - here Filip Stefanov Popov - here Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - here Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - here Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - absent Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - here Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - absent Ianko Alexandrov Jankov - here We have a quorum, we can proceed. Come in for a procedure before the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u45	Mr President, honourable Members, I request a 30-minute recess on behalf of the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u46	How much time? [[Heckling]] Holiday till 1:00 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u47	Dear Members, today's plenary session is continuing. Before going to the vote, allow me to make a communication on parliamentary control tomorrow "January 20th 2017. The parliamentary control provided for under art. Art. 91 to art. 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on 20 January "Friday" will not be held due to the inability to participate in the parliamentary control of members of the Council of Ministers and MPs. Notifications were submitted on 20 January 2017 for the absence of members of the Council of Ministers and MPs from the parliamentary control. Apparently, they've all been demoted since the seven-day deadline they have left. Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Despite the break we had, we could not clarify the dispute about the upcoming vote, so on the basis of art. 60 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the meeting be suspended on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-19.u49	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Svilen Ivanov by the GERB Parliamentary Group to end today's meeting. They voted 106 MPs: 96, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Tomorrow we will continue with the first point Project for a declaration of continuity between the forty-fourth National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria on the preparation and implementation of the parliamentary dimension of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union from 1 January to 30 June 2018. We start at 9:00. I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
