ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] We begin with the oath of yesterday's Vice-Presidents of the Financial Supervision Commission. Please invite Mrs. Diana Yordanova and Mr. Boyko Atanasov to the Chamber for taking the oath. Mrs. Yordanova, Mr. Atanasov, come to the stand and repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u2	I vow, in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria, to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country, to work for the purpose of implementing the Financial Supervision Commission, by being guided by the principles of independence, objectivity, good faith in fulfilling the obligations conferred on me by the Law. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u3	Thank you. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose that it be included in our weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly the following additional item The importer is Krasimir Velchev on 11 October 2017 and this will be our first point for today. We also have two solutions. Please vote. Vote 181 MPs: 130, against 10, abstention 41. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN STANDING COMMITMENTS. "Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 85, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we submit a draft decision for a change in the composition of the Committee on Policies of Bulgarians abroad. Please provide the draft decision to be submitted for consideration and voting in accordance with the established order. Importer is Krasimir Velchev, a signature in connection with which he offers the following: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad: The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He released Galya Stoyanova Vasileva as a member of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. Please vote. The vote is 178 MPs: 172, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. And the next draft decision: "Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 85, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the National Assembly we submit a draft decision on a change in the composition and management of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Please provide the draft decision to be submitted for consideration and voting in accordance with the established order. Importer is the national representative Krasimir Velchev. Project! DECISION to complete the composition and management of the Committee on Budget and Finance is as follows: The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. elects Evgenia Danylova Angelova as Vice-President of the Committee on Budget and Finance, and 2. He elected Galya Stoyanova Vasileva as a member of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Please vote. The vote is 179 MPs: 173, none, abstention 6. The draft decision has been adopted. Moving on to: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS AND PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE. The reports of the committees introduced us to the Draft Law on Communication Networks and Physical Infrastructure No 745-01-50, submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 28 July 2017. Only the report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds remains. The Commission's report will introduce us to the President of the Commission, Parliamentary Representative Christian Vigenin. You have the floor, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds on the Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure No 754-01-50, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 28 July 2017. At its regular meeting held on 13 September, 2017, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds examined the Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure No 754-01-50, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs. The draft was presented by Mr. Dimitar Genovski Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Petar Petrov This bill aims to introduce in national law the provisions of Directive 2014/61/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on measures to reduce the cost of deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks with regard to the reduction of the cost of rapid deployment of electronic communications networks and the updating of regulatory acts setting out requirements for deployment of electronic communications networks and the construction of their adjacent infrastructure. The bill is divided into nine chapters as follows: The importer states that on 24 March 2016 the European Commission (EC) sent an official notification letter No C (2016) 2005/3 concerning infringement procedure 2016/0167 concerning non-compliance with the obligation of the Republic of Bulgaria to notify national measures transposing Directive 2014/61/EU. On 29 September 2016, the European Commission decided to send a reasoned opinion, which was imposed by the continuing failure to comply with the obligations for the full transposition of the Directive. Despite the adoption of the Draft Law of the first vote on 28 September 2016 by the 43rd National Assembly, the failure to fully transpose the Directive continues and there is a real danger that the European Commission will refer to the Court of Justice and request the imposition of significant financial sanctions for Bulgaria as of 15 August 2015. In order to comply with national legislation, the draft Directive provides for a number of measures, including the need for targeted policies to reduce the costs of deployment of electronic communications networks, providing accessible information on available relevant (existing or future infrastructure), coordination of activities for the construction and maintenance of such infrastructure and the promotion of the joint use of physical infrastructure by more network operators. The above is expected to achieve growth, competitiveness and productivity in terms of broadband access. Importers point out that a number of European Union-level rules relating to access to information, access to a built or under construction physical infrastructure other than those specifically designed for the deployment of electronic communications networks have been established in the Directive. In addition, coordination rules shall be introduced between operators, rules in the construction of new buildings or major repairs of existing physical infrastructure ready for the deployment of networks. Since the legislation in force of the Republic of Bulgaria does not contain such rules and without them being created cannot be resolved, the proper implementation of the requirements of the Directive by means of the proposed Bill is necessary. Last but not least, it should be borne in mind that, in order to ensure the practical implementation of the requirements of Directive 2014/61/EU, it is necessary to establish and ensure the real functioning of a Single Information Point (EIT) whose functions should be performed by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The single information point will be essential for achieving the objectives of the law and its activities will include maintaining a single database of up-to-date information to facilitate the coordination of joint construction and use of physical infrastructure, as well as the deployment of electronic communications networks. In this respect, it is envisaged for the development of software and the assets for the launch of EIT to be used funds under the Operational Programme "Good management" based on a contract concluded with an estimated value of 2 million. leva. In the subsequent discussion Mr Christian Vigenin asked a question about the differences between the current Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure and that adopted at the first vote in the Forty-third National Assembly. Deputy Minister Genovski assured the chairman of KEVKEF that the amendments are non-essential and stressed that its acceptance is important for both business and consumer requirements. At the meeting were also presented the opinions on the draft by Mr. Slavcho Neykov, Chairman of the Management Board of the Institute for Energy Management, and Mrs. Galya Marinova, Chairman of the Board of the Bulgarian Association of Cable and Communication Operators (BACCO). In view of the above and as a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously proposed by 9 votes for the National Assembly to adopt the Draft for Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure No 754-01-50, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 28 July. Thank you very much, thank you very much, thank you, thank you,
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Is Motives gonna introduce us to any of the importers? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! I will present the reasons for the Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure. The proposed Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure is drawn up in relation to the introduction into national legislation of provisions of Directive 2014/61 of the European Union to reduce costs and to rapidly deploy electronic communications networks and update regulations setting out the requirements for the deployment of electronic communications networks and the construction of their adjacent infrastructure. The bill is supported by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. The bill is structured into nine chapters. "Chapters 1 and 2 of Chapter 2 of the Law" are regulated the scope of the Law and are set for the achievement of the strategic objectives in the light of the directive introduced. A Single Information Point is intended to be created in "Chapter 3 " Access to information regarding the infrastructure in question. It is envisaged that the functions of a Single Information Point will be performed by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. It is also proposed to ensure that applications and other documents necessary for the construction of communications networks and their adjacent physical infrastructure are completed and submitted electronically, as well as to obtain information on the course of their examination by the relevant competent authorities. This will significantly ease the investment process in line with the concept of serving a one-stop shop characteristic of modern complex administrative service. "Chapter 4 "Entrepreneurship access to and shared use of physical infrastructure" is devoted to the provision of rights and waitouts related to the construction of physical infrastructure and network deployment. The law provides that network operators have an obligation to provide access for the joint use of existing infrastructure and previously disclosed conditions on their website, including a price, by entering into a contract in writing with the operator of the electronic communications network. In addition, the intended passage and, in particular, the use of roads shall be governed on the basis of one-off compensation, while the right of access and co-use for remuneration. Clear rules are proposed to distinguish liability between persons using the same infrastructure together to carry out different business activities. By accessing and sharing the already built infrastructure, it is expected to reduce costs, ease the investment process and speed up the deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks in order to help overcome difficulties in deploying electronic communications networks in difficultly accessible areas, as well as in areas where new engineering and construction activities would have an adverse impact on the environment or would require serious investment. A procedure for access to information on planned activities for deployment of elements of electronic communications networks or building physical infrastructure has been established in Chapter 5. In addition to the lower cost of construction and repair and network deployment, coordination of activities is important for the public, because renovations of public spaces and facilities are avoided, as well as related repair activities, dusting, pollution, noise and overall reduction of quality of life near the renovated sites. In Chapter 6, Accommodation of electronic communications networks and the construction of their adjacent physical infrastructure and in two separate sections, the activities to be carried out in accordance with the Law on Structure in the Area relating to the construction of the physical infrastructure for the deployment of electronic communications networks are distinguished, Section I, and General Rules on the activities for the deployment of electronic communications networks and the construction of its adjacent physical infrastructure, Section II. Section I sets a 30-day deadline for the establishment of network operators managing the physical infrastructure in the area concerned, in coordination with the contracting entity of the investment project for the construction of the linear physical infrastructure for the deployment of electronic communications networks. Rules for the immediate removal of damage, rules for the displacement of electronic communications networks and physical infrastructure are also provided. A specific framework for the removal of illegal electronic communications networks is also envisaged to ensure the security and quality of services provided through energy outlets of public interest. In "Glava" "E-mail communications networks and infrastructure in buildings".................................................................................................... Section I also requires the design of new buildings to provide for the construction of physical infrastructure suitable for the deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks and also for the construction of major renovations of the building to be built such a physical infrastructure. In order to avoid the creation of duplicate infrastructures, the reduction of construction costs and new physical infrastructure, the deployment of elements of communications networks is allowed if technically impossible to use the existing network. Chapter 8 proposes the Communications Regulation Commission to play the role of a body to resolve disputes related to the provision of access to existing infrastructure, including setting access prices, coordinating deployment, maintenance or improvement of electronic communications network elements or joint construction of adjacent physical infrastructure. The control of the activities is regulated in Section I of Chapter 9a, specifying the bodies with specific activities. "The Communications Regulation Commission, the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Mayors of Municipalities. Section II proposes the amounts of the relevant fines, property penalties for non-compliance with the requirements of the Law, using administrative penal provisions for the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law on Construction in the Area in similar configurations.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As an MP from Sofia, of course, I want Sofia, but also the other cities in the country to have a European look, to be arranged and not to have hanging cables stretched sometimes directly at the height of human fighting. I do not want our city and other cities in the country compared to cities from third world countries. You must have noticed that there are operators who strictly follow the rules and pass the underground cable routes, and others who decide that they can stretch the cables as they are most comfortable with them. Of course, we all want to have cheap access to high-speed internet, but agree, fellow Members, that often wiring is met in a way that does not meet elementary technical requirements, which certainly violates both the quality of the service and safety. Each of us knows what happens when the weather breaks, there's a thunderstorm, what happens to Internet access and cable TV. Not only does it disappear, but they often burn TVs, routers, receivers and so on. During the discussion in the Transport Commission, I shared with my colleagues my concern that some of the proposed texts not only do not solve these problems, but will probably legitimise them. To these arguments, honourable Members, I would also like to add another one which not only amazes me, but I think it is a typical example of an absolute disregard for the subordination of the institutions in the country. Note, today we are looking at the proposed Bill, a brand new law at first reading, although it has already become clear from the reports that were submitted that it was voted at first reading in the previous National Assembly, but for us it is still brand new. This bill was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 July this year. Please note, on 30 August this year, the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Ivaylo Moskovski sent a letter to the companies carrying out public electronic communications, informing them that according to art. 3, para. 4 t. 3 of the bill has an obligation to provide up-to-date information to a Single Information Point and asks them to define the methods and deadlines for providing the above information. Colleagues, the National Assembly has not yet adopted the spirit of the Law that we are talking about, but the Minister has already applied separate regulations. In me, and I am sure that you also have the impression that someone honestly thinks that the National Assembly is the executive body of the government. Firstly, the bill is obviously the Council of Ministers and is once again being introduced as a draft of a group of MPs with the explanation that an hour should be transposed rather a European directive, which, of course, we are adopting. However, let me ask you to wait for at least the spirit of the Law to be adopted first. In this sense, I will vote abstention. I would also suggest that our parliamentary group should vote with abstention. In case the bill is adopted at first reading, it is undoubtedly an important bill that concerns many people in the country, I propose that a working group be made to the Transport Commission, which will carefully examine and clear all the problems that have been addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Any lines to Mr. Danchev's statement? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! The adoption of the Law is necessary from the point of view of the transposition of Directive 2014/61 of May 2014 adopted by the European Parliament. It concerns a natural reduction of costs for the deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks. Experts, however, and part of the guild, say that the proposed bill does not transpose the directive into its entirety and purpose. The cost is not reduced, the administrative burden of deploying the SMS is not alleviated, but on the contrary, administrative complications and bureaucratic procedures are introduced. It is also commented that the spirit of the Bill benefits mainly electricity distribution companies, which are created explicit, even specific conditions, namely, I quote:. 53, para. Art. 1, art. 65, para. 5 and § 4 of para. 7, p. 1.................................................................................. In the proposed Bill there is a retreat by introducing vague, somewhat conflicting and devoid of practical provisions for setting a price for access and deployment, and in the event of a dispute the auction is allowed and now, note the one that will be won naturally by the highest bidder. In accordance with art. 3, para. 4 of the Project, network operators' prices reflect all costs related to the activity concerned, while there will also be a methodology for determining the access price. Another major problem, which is pointed out and remains unresolved with the proposed project, is that there are many networks that, to date, have issued construction papers supposed projects, filming, permits, passports. All this has not been taken into account and the same networks will be treated equally with illegal networks that are located without any permits and projects. This puts the correct and incorrect entities at a disadvantage and contradicts the usual legal practices. In addition, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Decision are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Secondly, the proposed provision confers an advantage on large operators over small and medium-sized ones, thus distorting competitiveness in the sector. We should note that the requirement for the amount of local fees for administrative services is being introduced fairly, which do not exceed the respective State fee for the same service, which is determined either by law or by an act of the Council of Ministers. This eliminates the vicious practice that exists in certain municipalities for impossible fees. However, in general, if we need to sum up, monopoly organisations such as energy distribution companies are mainly tolerated and market advantage is given to the monopoly of the physical infrastructure for electronic communications, requiring other telecommunications undertakings to pay unstoppable rent prices for BTC underground pipes. And that's why what my colleague Danchev said, we will abstain at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. Do we have any lines for Mr. Tishev? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, I will call on you to support this bill. It became clear from the reports of the committees and from the opinions of the importer that this bill was submitted to the previous Chamber of the National Assembly. It was examined not only at first but also at second reading in the Specialised Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and there were only, as I recall, several texts on which there were disputes. The majority of the points at issue have been cleared and the majority of the views of the interested parties have been taken into account in this bill. Not only are we at the threshold of a criminal procedure and at the risk of paying huge sums for not implementing the European Directive, but also because this bill concerns a qualitative change in the matter at issue for electronic communications networks, I believe that this bill should be adopted. Indeed, there is no obstacle, of course, between first and second reading, to make a working group in the specialized Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, but I see nothing wrong with this bill moving along the so-called 'fast track', all the more so that it is actually going through a second discussion after it has already passed a year ago. So I believe that once it is also examined by the Special Commission, a text will be produced that will be as good as possible, so I call on you to support it. With regard to the speech of colleagues, I will only note that we have heard only one of the opinions presented by my colleague Tishev of the Association of Cable Operators 2000. In fact, we have other opinions that are entirely positive and fully in support of the bill, both from the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Ministry of Regional Development, Bulgarian Association of Cable Operators, not to list all non-governmental organizations that have given their support to this Bill. In the final I will allow myself to thank my colleagues from GERB - Stanislav Ivanov, Anna Alexandrova and Yordanka Fikirliyska, who saw the positive moments in the bill and supported it by becoming its co-owners. I call on you to support this bill! Anything else that can be done between first and second reading to improve the individual texts and to solve the remaining unresolved issues in the first examination of this Bill will make it the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications as competent as possible, I believe that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u13	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote the Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure No 754-01-50, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 28 July 2017. Vote 155 MPs: 99, none against, abstention 56. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ADMINISTRATIVEITY. Please come in for the report, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Act No 702-01-15, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017, adopted on the first vote on 21 September 2017. Law amending and supplementing the Administration Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u15	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the text of the importer for the name of the Law supported by the Commission. They voted 122 MPs: 117, none, abstention 5. The name of the Law is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u16	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u17	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 1 on the Commission report. Voted 118 MPs: 113, no objection, abstention 5. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u18	The Commission text of the importer in § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u19	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2. The text is supported by the Commission. They voted 109 MPs: 105, none, abstention 4. Paragraph 2 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u20	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u21	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 3 on the Commission report. They voted 106 MPs: for 103, they won't mind, they abstentioned 3. Paragraph 3 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u22	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u23	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 4 supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 3. Paragraph 4 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u24	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u25	Do you have any speeches, fellow Members? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 5 on the Commission report. They voted 114 MPs: 110, none, abstention 4. Paragraph 5 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u26	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u27	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 6 fully supported by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 105, none, abstention 6. Paragraph 6 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u28	Paragraph 7. Text of the importer - proposal from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administration (prom., SG No. The following amendments shall be made to § 16 of the Transitional and Final Provisions: 1. In para. 2 words in agreement with the Council for Administrative Reform of the Council of Ministers shall be replaced by the Council of Ministers after prior coordination with the administration of the Council of Ministers. 2. In para. 5 words The Deputy Prime Minister for the Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs shall be replaced by the Minister for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u29	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 7 on the Commission report. They voted 122 MPs: 114, none, abstention 8. Paragraph 7 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u30	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version for the name of the compartment:
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u31	Do you have any speeches, fellow Members? I won't. I put to the vote the title generally supported by the Commission's version of the reporter "Concluding provision'. We are voting on the name of the division proposed by the Commission. 125 MPs voted: 122, none, abstention 3. The term "Concluding provision" has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u32	Paragraph 8. Text of importer and proposal by the National Representative Anna Alexandrova under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Obviously, Mr. President, the report does not reflect that the Commission has supported this proposal by Mrs. Alexandrova. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... Within 5 months of the entry into force of this Act, the Council of Ministers shall adopt the regulation under Article. 46b, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u33	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 8 on the Commission report. Vote 128 MPs: for 123, not against, abstention 5. Paragraph 8 of the Commission's report has been adopted and thus the Second Voting Bill. The next item on the agenda is: The Law on Modification and Complement of the Law on Integrating People with Reconciliation No 702-01-19, implemented by the MINISTER COUNCIL on 28 September 2017. The report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy will introduce us to the President of the Commission Dr. Ademov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u34	Madam President, before this, allow me to make a procedural proposal in connection with a discussion of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Integration of Disabled People............................. to invite the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mrs. Sultanka Petrova to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u35	We vote on the procedural proposal. They voted 134 MPs: 132, none, abstention 2. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u36	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities No 702-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 September 2017. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 4 October 2017 discussed and discussed the Draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities No 702-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Ms. Rositsa Dimitrova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Mincho Koralski, Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities, Mrs. Rumyana Georgieva, Director-General of the Directorate-General for Social Assistance, Ms. Adriana Stoimenova, Vice-President of the National Council for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, and other representatives of state institutions and national represented NGOs. The bill was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Dimitrova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The focus in the presentation of the bill were the objectives set by the proposed changes, namely: better regulation of the requirements for ensuring social integration of disabled people and for exercising their rights, as well as reducing the administrative and regulatory burden for citizens and businesses by: - a reduction of the documents required by the applicants and the introduction of an obligation for the administrative authorities to collect information from other institutions on their own; - unification of part of the declarations in one - the required up to three declarations proving certain circumstances can be combined into one; - the official collection of the necessary information from the National Database "Population" and the Commercial Register and the National Revenue Agency. The Agency for Social Assistance shall be granted free of charge access to the National Base.Population and, where necessary, information from state and municipal authorities, as well as from natural and legal persons, shall be required by official means. This will reduce the number of documents required by citizens, create legal certainty and reduce the possibility of duplication of social payments and abuse of social rights, respectively multiple exercising of social rights without legal basis. The proposed changes to the National Revenue Agency give the opportunity to provide information to the Agency on people with disabilities about the recovery of a certain percentage of the contributions made by employers, which will significantly alleviate the administrative burden. For comparison, this information is currently provided by the interested parties by means of a document completed by the persons and certified in the territorial divisions of the National Revenue Agency. Another objective of the Bill is to synchronise and improve the regulations in the area of people with disabilities by performing some of the texts in force. The bill proposes that the requirement to repeal the reasoned proposal to grant targeted aid for the development and/or purchase of assistance, gadgets and facilities for people with disabilities and medical devices, as specified in the lists of art. 35d, para. 1 of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. The appointment of assistances, facilities and facilities for people with disabilities and medical devices shall be carried out by the authorities of the medical expertise of LCC, TELK/NELK, and the terms and conditions shall be laid down in the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. The reasoned proposal by the Advisory Committee shall have no legal effect. The bill allows people with disabilities to submit the request for social evaluation to be made by both themselves and by an authorised person and by the director of a specialised institution or social service, a resident type, where children with disabilities are accommodated. In the presentation of the draft Deputy Minister Dimitrova outlined the interested parties, namely: first of all To reduce the administrative burden for citizens, an amendment to the text in art. 42g of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, and Regulation No 35 of 2006 on the terms and conditions for providing a monthly supplement for diet and medicinal products to persons with permanent disabilities with 71 and over 71 per cent reduced performance and to children with reduced social adaptation and the requirement that persons present a certificate from the general practitioner will be removed. The requirement to submit an application for entry in the register of persons carrying out activities for the provision and repair of auxiliary equipment, fittings and medical applications to submit a single identification code to the person and a declaration of non-compliance to the National Revenue Agency is removed. Data on these circumstances will be entered upon submission of the application. In addition, the requirement to provide a list of medical devices and aids, devices and facilities intended for disabled persons in paper form is removed and entered only on electronic media. The proposed changes allow the National Revenue Agency to provide tax and insurance data for employers and individuals in accordance with the provisions of the National Revenue Agency Act, i.e. the NRA will be able to provide information on the recovery of a certain percentage of the contributions paid by employers. Currently, this information is provided by interested parties by means of a document completed by the persons and certified in the territorial departments of the National Revenue Agency. This amendment will significantly alleviate the administrative burden. Deputy Minister Dimitrova stressed that the expected result of the proposed changes is the optimization and improvement of the quality of the services provided by the Agency for Social Assistance and the Agency for Persons with Disabilities, and that the bill will not result in direct or indirect impact on the state budget. The discussion was attended by the MPs Hasan Ademov, Svetlana Angelova and Kalin Popovski, as well as representatives of the institutions and NGOs. The Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities highlighted one of the advantages of the proposed changes, namely the dropping of the requirements necessary information to be provided by interested parties by means of a document completed by persons and certified in the territorial departments of the National Revenue Agency, enabling the Agency for Persons with Disabilities to collect this information in an official manner. Mr. Mincho Koralski stressed that in Bulgaria this regime is the most liberal because it is the only service without any state fee for companies that provide assistance, gadgets and medical devices intended for people with disabilities. In addition, the Executive Director of the Agency for Disabled Persons has expressed reservations regarding the reservations described in Paragraph 6 in a new item. 5 too general arrangements or requirements which are subsequently not complied with. The President of the Commission, Hasan Ademov, directed the discussion to answer questions regarding the clarification of the texts in the Draft Law on the scheduled rights of the "Social assistance for the professional collection of information," stressing that certain ambiguities in the provisions need to be removed. People's representative Svetlana Angelova expressed the opinion of the parliamentary group of GERB, who will support the bill, stressing that the text of art. 5, para. 5 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities is unclear and creates conditions for ambiguous interpretation and contradictions. Mrs. Angelova expressed her conviction that the MPs could unite around a refined text of that provision. People's representative Kalin Popovski said the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs would support the bill with some amendments to the texts between the first and second votes. The discussion was attended by the Vice-President of the National Council for the Integration of Disabled People Mrs. Adriana Stoimenova, who expressed the support of the NGOs represented by her for the bill, with the recommendation for the clarification of the texts of art. 5, para. 5 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 19 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support the bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 September 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u37	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Is there a desire on the part of importers to justify the changes made? I can't see. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We from the parliamentary group of the Political Party GERB will support this bill for amending and supplementing the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. I would like to say that during the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the bill was supported by all Commissioners from the five parliamentary groups. As changes are proposed in support of disabled persons, the regulatory and administrative burden for disabled persons and persons engaged in the provision of assistance, facilities, medical devices and medical devices is reduced, in practice, by reducing the required documents to be provided by persons in the social assistance centres under this Law and by introducing the obligation for the administrative authority to collect information from the institutions in a professional capacity. These changes will lead to optimization and improvement of the quality of the services provided by the Agency for Social Assistance. The proposal will have a positive effect on about 530,000 disabled persons who are entitled to aid, on compensation under the Law on the Integration of Disabilities. It will also have a positive effect on 328 persons who operate in the provision of medical devices, aids, gadgets and facilities. At a meeting of the Commission of all parliamentary groups, we expressed concern under § 1, that it was possible to extend overly the powers of the In the same way as the wording in § 1, that the directorates may withdraw any information from a public and private entity, it too extends the powers. This text, in our opinion, is unprecise and can create conditions for abuse by employees of the In the National Council for the Integration of Disabilities, this text is reviewed. They also have comments as regards the need for the Member States to request such information from each public and private entity. I have the assurance from Deputy Minister Dimitrova, yesterday I also spoke with representatives of the Agency for Social Assistance, this text to be corrected in order not to create problems and I hope between first and second reading to be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. My fellow Members, I would like to inform you that on the balcony of the plenary, our guest is Mr Hans van Baalen, Chairman of the Party of European Liberals. [[People's representatives welcome the guests with applause.]] Welcome! [[The national representatives of the DPS parliamentary group are becoming, applause.]] We'll proceed with the procedure. Are there any lines to Mrs. Angelova's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u40	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honored guests! BSP will support the proposed bill. Yes, indeed the administrative burden is reduced, but is that really the most important thing for people with disabilities? You're assuming you'll hear criticism from me. No, it won't be criticism. I'll talk to facts. Ten percent of the population of Bulgaria are people with disabilities. Eighty percent of these people live below the poverty line. Eighty-two percent of disabled children do not attend school regularly. The instruction on aids continues to include the word "woody prosthesis" and other technical aids that have become obsolete. With such bills we do not reduce the burden on people with disabilities, we only save the Social Assistance Directorate a little more work. Ms. Angelova, you said that this bill would help 500 thousand disabled people and about 300 and several companies. You know, there's about $50 million in aid money. lv. per year. A very interesting fact is with these three hundred and several companies offering support funds. The only thing that will happen is that we will make it easier for these companies to continue draining the Social Ministry. And I'm going to give you an example: a wheelchair for people with disabilities, I'm not saying an invalid stroller, because at least that word is offensive, it's insulting in my presence, it's being resold through companies about ten times. One upper limb prosthesis costs about 15,000. BGN, the Ministry gives 3,000. lv. and the money gets absorbed. It's very interesting how it's worth $15,000. BGN, the Ministry gives 3,000. lv. And who gets the prosthesis? Nobody gets a prosthetic. The prosthetics in Bulgaria are worth nothing. I apologize for the expression, but it is. I've been called to say, "The prosthetic sits in the closet." Mrs. Angelova, we're not helping anyone. You're not helping me. This bill of mine is not helping me in any way. How does it help me? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u41	Thank you to the MP Mihail Hristov. Are there any lines to his statement? Here you go, Mrs. Angelova. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u42	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Hristov, I do not agree with your speech, because we are currently looking at amendments to the Law on the Integration of Disabled People who actually reduce the administrative burden. Some declarations are removed, the possibility of providing a bunch of documents and people with disabilities to be moved several times to various state institutions to provide these documents, which are necessary to provide a social assessment for integration supplements. Do not distort in this way the spirit of the bill that we are currently looking at with your speech. You are right in some ways that there is a need for price revision in terms of how medical devices are allocated, aids, gadgets, facilities. That is why I agree, because part of this list, and especially the price list, has become obsolete. Yeah, I'm absolutely right. But at the moment we have as a topic of discussion specific texts that we should vote on shortly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u43	That was a first line. Is there another line to Mr. Hristov's statement? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u44	Mrs. Angelova, you're absolutely right. We're looking at this bill. But I ask you again: is this the most important thing to reduce the paperwork and the declarations from ten to five? How do we make it easier for people? You say, "You'll be walking less." Have you seen a man with a wheelchair anywhere on the street recently? No, because there's no infrastructure. These are the important and ill topics, not whether the administrative burden will be reduced or not. That's not the point. And right here in this Parliament, the important issues should be solved, not the administrative burden. The important questions are that these people do not go out, live below the poverty line. I understand that we live in a society that is largely economically limited, and for people with disabilities, the least resources remain. At the same time, however, we live in a solidarity society and we must support each other. Once again, we will support the bill, but this is not what interests people with disabilities. Here, before you stands a man with disabilities and tells you: "This bill of mine does not help me in any way. It will help me if you change the manual on the aids and update the prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u45	Thank you, Mr. Christov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Are there any other statements? Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam Deputy Minister! After this frankly emotional statement of Mr. Hristov it is difficult to speak on this bill because the problems he pointed out are really important in the policy for people with disabilities. However, this Bill has a completely different purpose anyway, and it has to do with reducing the administrative and regulatory burden, because part of the regulations for people with disabilities does cause problems, and this Bill is trying to solve some of them, not all of them. The important problems are really the ones Mr. Hristov is talking about. This bill aims to reduce the regulatory burden. How is this achieved for people with disabilities, for example? People with disabilities who cannot submit an application on their own for the reasons Mr. Hristov spoke about just now, now authorised persons or directors of the institutions concerned, to the relevant institutions of the resident type, will be able to apply for a social assessment instead. It's a relief for people with disabilities. There's no reason for anyone to worry about that. For regulatory and licensing regimes, our parliamentary group in its election platform has very clearly outlined and stated intentions to reduce the administrative and regulatory burden both for business and for those interested in reducing these regimes. So in this sense, we support the idea of reducing the administrative and regulatory burden in all areas. When we were at the station, Mr. Stoinev was in front of me and he knew that hundreds of such regimes were identified, with which we began to solve some of the problems. This is why we support the idea of reducing these regimes, which are in the interest of both the public and the business as a whole. However, there is one text here that has troubled absolutely all the Commissioners. It enables the Department of Social Assistance to request information, notice, it is about any information, from the General Labour Inspection, from the National Revenue Agency. See exactly what the lyrics are! I want to read it so you can see what absurdity this is about and it was not a coincidence, including the government, that this text was challenged. This is about the following: For the performance of the functions of social integration and the exercise of the rights of the people with disabilities Directorate of Social Assistance Who's the directorate? Just the one who has access to personal data, just the one who is the controller of personal data, or everyone? This text here doesn't say what it's about. They have the right to free access to the National database of the population and, if necessary, require information from the Municipal Administration, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the territorial structures of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Employment Agency, the National Insurance Institute and other state and municipal authorities. What information will they require? Has it been said anywhere? Will they require information, for example, about party affiliation? This text does not say, does not answer these questions. That is why we have all united around this text to be rewritten because at the moment the Prosecutor General and the investigating authorities are not allowed to request such information, ladies and gentlemen! What information has not been said. We will now require information from these structures! This text is also contested in the National Council for the Integration of Disabled People, was also challenged in the Commission. Unfortunately, he entered the hall in the form in which he was signed in advance. That is why we in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, together with representatives of non-governmental organizations, have united around redeploying it so that it can avoid arbitraryness. I have no reason to doubt the colleagues who work at the Social Assistance Agency, but anyway the law in this form gives them rights that go far beyond what is permissible under the relevant legal documents. Our parliamentary group will support the proposed Bill with the note I told you about changing the one in § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u47	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Are there any lines to his statement? I can't see. Are there any other speeches, honourable Members? No further comments have been made. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote. First vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. Importer of the Council of Ministers, submitted on 28 September 2017. Please vote. They voted 141 MPs: 141, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposal and the bill have been passed. [[Applause.]] We move to the next item on the agenda: THE LAW OF STATE AID. Here you are, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u48	Thank you, Madam President. I ask for a procedure in this House to allow Mrs. Lydia Atima Director of the Department of State Aids in the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u49	We are voting for admission in this House, honourable Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u50	Vote 127 MPs: for 126, against none, abstention 1. Please invite us to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u51	Report on State aid bill No 702-01-6 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2017 and adopted at the first vote on 26 July This Decision shall "The State Aids Act" The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u52	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. There are 122 MPs voting: 122, no opposition and no abstentions. The name of the Law is unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u53	"Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter One.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u54	Statements? I won't. I vote on the name of Chapter 1 on a proposal from the importer supported by the Commission. The vote is 126 MPs: 125, against no, abstention 1. The name of "Chapter 1" "General" has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u55	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u56	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote Articles 1 to 4 including, on the Commission's report. Vote 128 MPs: 127 against 1, abstention 1. Articles 1 to 4 including the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u57	Under art. A proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5. "Principles" Art. 5. (1) When granting State aid, the following principles shall apply: 1. the need for the State aid to be addressed to areas of activity for which substantial improvement or development is necessary, which cannot be achieved under normal market conditions; 2. the appropriateness of supporting the achievement of an objective of common interest for the European Union, including when comparing the actual and expected results; 3. proportionality and effectiveness The requirements must be appropriate to achieve the objective pursued and must not exceed what is necessary to achieve it by aiming at maximum results of the smallest amount of State aid; 4. transparency: ensuring the provision and spending of public funds in a way that allows access, use and analysis of information on financial relationships and which enables monitoring, coordination and control to be carried out; 5. balance suppose a positive result in taking into account the negative effects on competition; 6. comparability of the choice of an appropriate way to provide State aid affecting competition to the least extent in achieving its objective; 7. a positive change in the behaviour and activity of the beneficiary of the aid in such a way as to carry out the relevant activity which he would not have undertaken without aid or would have undertaken, but in limited volume and in different ways. (2) The stimulating effect under para. 1, t. 7 shall be determined on the basis of the criteria laid down in the act of the European Union granting State aid. (3) When in the act under para. 2 no criteria have been defined, but State aid is required to have an incentive effect, the latter shall be determined at least by a comparative analysis of an option when granting the aid and an option without granting the aid. (4) The administrator of the aid shall give reasons in writing for the application of the principles under para. 1, where applicable, on the basis of the European Union act granting State aid. The reasons are an integral part of the State aid documents.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u58	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 5 on the Commission report. Vote 116 MPs: for 115, against none, abstention 1. Article 5 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u59	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u60	Vote art. 6 on the Commission report. They voted 117 MPs: 117, no opposition and no abstentions. Article 6 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted. Before moving on to chapter two of the bill, we have guests from Razgrad on the balcony, as well as from Club Please say hello. [[Applause.]] You have the floor, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u61	Chapter 2 "Supports of the executive responsible for State aids'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u62	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two, which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. The name of Chapter 2 is unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u63	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u64	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote Articles 7 and 8 on the Commission report. They voted 118 MPs: 118, no opposition and no abstentions. Articles 7 and 8 of the Commission Report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u65	Chapter 3 "Administrator of assistance." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u66	We are voting for the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three, supported by the Commission. They voted 113 MPs: for 113, against and abstention there is no. The name of Chapter 3 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u67	The Commission shall support the importer's texts for Articles 9, 10, 11 and 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u68	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer as members from 9 to 12 inclusive. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. Articles 9 to 12, including the Commission report, have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u69	Under art. 13 "A proposal from the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 13: Art. 13. (1) The aid administrator shall determine in advance the objectives and develop the content, parameters and mechanisms for granting and controlling any new State aid it intends to grant and shall assess its impact where required. (2) The aid administrator shall also draw up a plan for assessing the impact of the aid measures and a report to it for submission to the European Commission where required on the basis of an act of the European Union or at the request of the European Commission. (3) In the case of a State aid scheme or under minimal aid, the aid administrator shall be obliged to ensure compliance with State aid rules on a case-by-case basis within the scope of the scheme.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u70	Are there any speeches? I won't. Please vote art. 13 on the Commission report. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. Article 13 on the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u71	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u72	Vote art. 14 on the Commission report. Vote 112 MPs: for 111, there is no abstention 1. Article 14 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u73	Under art. 15 has a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 15: "Notify" Art. 15. (1) The administrator of aid shall be obliged before the granting of new State aid to notify the Minister of Finance. (2) The conditions and arrangements for notification under para. 1 shall be determined by a decree of the Minister of Finance. (3) The granting of new State aid in the fields of agriculture, rural development, forestry and hunting and fisheries shall be carried out by decision or proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u74	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 15 on the Commission report. They voted 113 MPs: for 113, against and abstention there is no. Article 15 on the Commission report has been adopted. Before art. 16 Dear colleagues, our guests are students from the specialty of the University of Veliko Tarnovo from the University of Veliko Tarnovo. St. Cyril and Methodius. Please say hello. [[Applause.]] You have the floor, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u75	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 16 and 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u76	We are voting on Articles 16 and 17 on the Commission report. Vote 117 MPs: 116, against no, abstention 1. Articles 16 and 17 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u77	Under art. 18 has a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18: "Capacitity" Art. 18. (1) The aid administrator shall be obliged to provide and maintain sufficient capacity to carry out the planning, development, notification, documentation, provision and management activities, reporting and control of State aid and de minimis aid activities. (2) The administrator of the aid shall be obliged to determine the necessary measures for the implementation of the activities under para. 1 according to the volume and specifics of the aid administered, including at least technical, personnel security and information storage measures. (3) For any State aid and minimal aid, the aid administrator may designate persons responsible for carrying out the activities under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u78	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 18 on the Commission report. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. Article 18 on the Commission report has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u79	There is a proposal from the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19: "Conservation and storage of information' Art. 19. (1) The administrator of the aid shall be obliged to maintain and store the information on the actions carried out by him relating to the State aid and de minimis aid granted, in charge of its credibility. (2) All documents submitted by the aid administrators to the Ministry of Finance shall be drawn up in Bulgarian language and, when drawn up in a foreign language, shall be translated into Bulgarian language. (3) The period for storing the information under para. 1 shall not be less than 10 years from the date of the last grant of aid under a State aid or de minimis aid scheme or from the date of the granting of individual State aid or minimal aid. (4) In the cases of aid granted in part, the period under para. 3 starts from the date of the last part provided. (5) Upon request access to the information under para. 1 or up to a part of it shall be made available to persons designated by the Minister of Finance or by the European Commission, as and within the time limit specified in the request.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u80	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 19 of the Commission report. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. Article 19 on the Commission report has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u81	"Chapter 4................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u82	We vote on the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Four, supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The name of Chapter Four
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u83	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u84	Vote art. 20 on the Commission report. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. Article 20 on the Commission report has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u85	"Chapter 5" - Types of State aid and order to provide. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u86	We vote on the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five, supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The name of Chapter Five "Speeds of State aid and order of delivery" has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u87	Articles 21, 22, 23, 24 and 25 The Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u88	We are voting on Articles 21 to 25, including the Commission report. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. Articles 21 to 25, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u89	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 26 to be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as § 4, para. 1, t. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u90	We are voting on the Commission's proposal for art. 26 by importer. Vote 97 MPs: 90 against 3, abstention 4. The Commission's proposal to reject art. 26 by importer accepted. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u91	Mr. Glauchev, I'm asking for a re-vote procedure. I haven't been able to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u92	It's too bad you missed that fundamental vote. Revoting procedure. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Budget and Finance. They voted 105 MPs: 102, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u93	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 27, which becomes art. 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 28, which becomes art. 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u94	We are voting on Articles 26 and 27 on the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. Articles 26 and 27 on the Commission report have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u95	Under art. 29 has a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 29, which becomes art. 28: "Studying" Art. 28. (1) The Minister of Finance shall examine the information under art. 27 in the order in which it was entered and prepares an assessment of the compliance of State aid with block exemption rules. The assessment shall be carried out within one month of receipt of the information. (2) Where additional information is needed to prepare the assessment, the Minister of Finance shall notify the aid administrator. In this case, the term of para. 1 starts running from receiving the additional information. In each subsequent submission of additional information, a new period shall begin to run. (3) In cases of non-compliance, the Minister of Finance shall propose to the aid administrator to bring the aid measure in accordance with the rules of a general block exemption regulation or the applicable acts of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u96	Are there any speeches? None I shall put to the vote art. 28 on the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. Article 28 on the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u97	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 30, which becomes art. 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u98	Vote art. 29 on the Commission report. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. Article 29 on the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u99	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 31, which becomes Art. 30, offering in t. 2 words.............................................................................. For the purpose of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: 28...............................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u100	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on Article 30, as proposed in the report by the Committee on Budget and Finance. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. Article 30 on the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u101	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 32, which becomes Art. 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u102	Vote art. 31 on the Commission report. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. Article 31 on the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u103	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 33, which becomes Art. 32, by offering in ) (a.k.a. 1 words.............................................................................. For the purpose of this Decision, the
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u104	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 32, as presented in the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. Article 32 on the Commission report has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u105	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 34, which becomes art. 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u106	Vote art. 33 on the Commission report. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. Article 33 on the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u107	Under art. 35 there is a proposal from the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 35, which becomes art. 34: Information from the administrator Art. 34. (1) Within three working days of the granting of aid falling within the scope of a minimum aid regulation, the aid administrator shall inform the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, respectively. (2) Paragraph 1 shall not apply where otherwise provided for by an act of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u108	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 34 on the Commission report. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. Article 34 shall be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u109	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 36, which becomes art. 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 37, which becomes Art. 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u110	We are voting on Articles 35 and 36 on the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 35 and 36 are unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u111	Under art. 38 there is a proposal from the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 38, which becomes art. 37: supposes for unlawful de minimis aid Art. 37. (1) Incorrectly received minimum aid or aid exempted from notification by an act of the Council of the European Union or of the European Commission shall constitute a public claim established by the aid administrator by issuing an act establishing a public claim under the Administrative Procedure Code. (2) The claims on the issued acts under para. 1 shall be collected under the order of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code by the authorities of the National Revenue Agency. (3) The administrator of aid which has issued an act under para. 1 shall be required within three working days of the issuance of the act to inform the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, respectively, unless the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry is the publisher of the act concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u112	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 37 on the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. Article 37 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u113	sixth. Recovery of unlawful and incompatible State aid by decision of the European Commission. Recovery of undue State aid. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u114	We vote on the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Six, supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The name of Chapter Six is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u115	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 39, which becomes art. 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u116	Vote art. 38 on the Commission report. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. Article 38 of the Commission report was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u117	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 40, which shall become Article 40. 39, by proposing in ) (a.k.a. 2, p. 1 words.............................................................................. For the purpose of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: 37...... and everywhere in the text........................................................................................ The following shall be added in the
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u118	Do you have any speeches, fellow Members? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 39, as is a proposal from the Committee on Budget and Finance in its report. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. Article 39 on the Commission report has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u119	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for 41, which shall become art. 40.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u120	Vote art. 40 on the Commission report. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. Article 40 on the Commission report has been unanimously adopted. We'll make a 30-minute recess. We'll continue at 11.55. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u121	Honourable Members, we are continuing the meeting. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. You have the floor, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u122	Under art. There is a proposal from the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 42, which becomes art. 41: supplier of recovery decisions Art. 41. (1) The National Revenue Agency, the administrator of aid respectively, shall notify the Minister of Finance of any outstanding obligation to recover unlawful and incompatible State aid or of undue State aid within 7 working days of the date of repayment. (2) The Minister of Finance shall keep a register of the decisions of the European Commission under art. 38, para. 1 in which it also fits their implementation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u123	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 42, which becomes art. 41 in the Commission report. [[Noise and lines.]] We started at exactly 11:55 p.m., as it was announced. Abort the vote. There's no quorum. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 to amend this Regulation by means Adlen Shukri Shevked - absent Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - here Alexander Dimitrov Panov - absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - absent Alexander Koychev Ivanov - absent Alexander Mairov Siddi - absent Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - absent Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - absent Alexander Tihomirov Simov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Angel Iliev Isaev - here Andon Dimov Donchev - absent Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - absent Asya Atanasova Peeva - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - absent Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Bogdan Emilov Botsev - here Boris Vangelov Borisov - absent Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Ivanov Borisov - absent Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - here Bjurhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - absent Valentin Georgiev Lambev - absent Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Vasil Tsvetkov - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - absent Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova - here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - here Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - here Veska Marinova Nencheva - here Violeta Ruseva Zheleva - here Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - absent Galya Stoyanova Vasileva - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - here Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov - absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev - absent Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - absent Georgi Kolev Kolev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Tenev Stankov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniel Petkov Yordanov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Angelova Todorova - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Jekova Taneva - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Gamishev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - here Donka Dimova Simeonova - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - absent Evgenia Danielova Angelova - absent Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Errol Osman Mehmed - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivaylo Lubenov Konstantinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Dimov Ivanov - here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - here Ivan Kirov Genov - absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - absent Ivo Angelov Hristov - here Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - absent Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - absent Yordan Apostolicov - absent Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - here Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov - here Yordanka Ivanova Fikirliyska - here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - absent Kalin Nikolov Popovski - absent Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - here Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Cristina Maximova Sidorova - here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - here Krastina Nikolova Taskova - here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - here Maria Yordanova Ilieva - here Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - absent Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer - here Nikola Iliev Dinkov - here Nikolay Asenov Tishev - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - here Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov - here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here Nona Krasteva Yotova - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov - here Pencho Plamenov Milkov - here Petar Boykov Vitanov - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - absent Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Plamen Trifonov Hristov - absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev - here Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - here Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Nikolov Georgiev - here Rumen Petrov Genov - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - absent Sevim Ismail Ali - absent Sergey Manushov Kichikov - here Simeon Georgiev Naydenov - here Simeon Christov Simeonov - absent Slavi Dichev Netzov - here Slavcho Georgiev Velkov - here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - absent Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Spas Georgiev Gurnevski - here Save Yanev Panchev - here Stanislav Ivanov Vladimirov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova - here Stefan Apostolicov - absent Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stefan Lambov Danailov - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - here Tanner Mehmed Ali - absent Tanya Todorova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - here Teodora Atanasova Halacheva - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - absent Todor Baychev - here Toma Lubomirov Bikov - here Toma Nikolov Tomov - here Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov - here Halil Recepov Letifov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - here Christian Radev Mitev - absent Hristo Georgiev Gajev - absent Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov - here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Chavdar Yordanov Velinov - here Julian Krastev Angelov - absent Yulian Mihailov Papasimov - absent Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Rumenov Bojankov here. There's a quorum. Additionally recorded: Adlen Shevket, Alexander Matsurev, Asya Peeva, Andon Donchev, Bürhan Abase, Alexander Sabanov, Boris Vangelov, Borislav Borisov, Valentin Lambov, Georgi Stankov, Alexander Nenkov, Boris Yachev, Alexander Ivanov, Valentin Nikolov, Georgi Yordanov, Yordan Apostolov, Erol Mehmed, Ihsan Haku, Elhan Kalkov, Ivelina Vassileva, Emre Mehmedova, Galya Zaharieva, Alexander Paunov, Anelia Klisarova, Ahmed Ahmed Ahmed, Velislava Krasteva, Plamen Nunev, Georgi Dinov, Simeon Simeonov, Tanner Ali. We can move on. Vote art. 41 on the Commission report. They voted 121 MPs: 119, none, abstention 2. Article 41 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u124	Under art. There is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 43, which becomes Art. 42: 'Execution of a recovery decision Art. 42. (1) Within the time limit set in the decision of the European Commission under art. 38, para. 1 and, where not specified, within two months from the date of the decision of the European Commission, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, respectively, shall be provided with information from: 1. the administrator of aid for: (a) beneficiaries of the aid with their tax identification; (b) the amount of recovery aid, including principal and interest; (c) measures taken and planned to implement the decision of the European Commission (description, analysis, action plan); (d) the acts issued for the establishment of claims and the implementation thereof; (e) the contested acts establishing the claims; 2. The National Revenue Agency for: (a) the actions taken in insolvency proceedings for recovery of claims; (b) other measures taken to implement the European Commission decision, including their legal basis. (2) Within the time limit specified in the decision of the European Commission under art. 38, para. 1 and, where not specified, within 6 months from the date of the decision of the European Commission, the National Revenue Agency shall inform the Minister of Finance, respectively the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry of the implementation of the decision. (3) The Minister of Finance, respectively the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, may request from the National Revenue Agency the aid administrator, the provision of additional information and evidence for the final implementation of the decision. (4) The information under para. 1 - 3 shall be transmitted to the European Commission under its terms and conditions through the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u125	Are there any speeches? I won't. Vote art. 42 on the Commission report. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. Article 42 on the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u126	Under art. There is a proposal from the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. Two of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 44, which becomes Art. 43: Inability to recover Art. 43. In the event of evidence of the failure to fully or partially recover unlawful and incompatible State aid or of unlawful State aid, the National Revenue Agency, the administrator of the aid, shall immediately inform the European Commission, through the Minister of Finance, of the possibility that its decision to recover the aid will remain wholly or partially unfulfilled.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u127	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 43 on the Commission report. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. Article 43 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u128	Article 45 "Forbidden for the provision of new aid'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 45, which becomes art. 44, offering the words. 39, para. For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply: 38, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's and 1's.'
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u129	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 44, as proposed by the Commission report. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. Article 44 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u130	Article 46 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 46, which becomes art. 45.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u131	Vote art. 45 on the Commission report. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. Article 45 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u132	"Head.. Information and The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u133	We are voting on the proposal of the importer for the name of Chapter Seven, fully supported by the Commission. Vote 101 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 1. The name of Chapter 7 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u134	Under art. 47 "Intel exchange." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 47, which becomes Art. 46.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u135	Vote art. 46 on the Commission report. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. Article 46 on the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u136	Under art. 48 "Presentation of information ". A proposal from the National Representative Diana Yordanova was made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 48, which becomes art. 47: Art. 47. The administrator of aid, the public authorities and the State Fund is obliged to provide the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry with information on the State aids and minimum aids administered by them, respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u137	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 47 on the Commission report. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. Article 47 on the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u138	Under art. 49 "Annual reports." A proposal from the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 49, which becomes art. 48: "Annual reports" Art. 48 (1) By 31 March of each year, the aid administrators shall provide the Minister of Finance with an annual report on State aid administered by them according to the previous year. The report shall not be considered as notification under art. 15, para. 1. (2) Annually by 31 January, the State Fund shall provide the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry with an annual report on the State aid administered by them in the field of agriculture, rural development, forestry and fisheries for the previous year. (3) The reports under para. 1 and 2 for State aid relating to the application of tax measures requiring the processing of declarations to taxable persons shall be granted no later than 10 June of the current year according to preliminary data and the final data shall be provided no later than 10 July. (4) Aid administrators, public authorities and the State Fund shall be obliged to publish on their websites the reports under para. 1 and 2 as and within the time limits within which they are sent to the Minister concerned. (5) On the basis of the reports received under para. 1 The Minister of Finance shall prepare an annual report on the State aid granted for the previous year and submit it to the European Commission by 30 June of the current year. (6) Based on the reports received under para. 2 The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall prepare an annual report on the State aid granted for the previous year in the field of agriculture, rural development, forestry and hunting and fisheries and shall submit it to the European Commission by 30 June of the current year. (7) When the final data under para. 3 differ from the preliminary data in the reports under para. 1 and 2, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, respectively, sends to the European Commission information on the necessary adjustments to the reports under para. 5 or 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u139	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 48 on the Commission report. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. Article 48 on the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u140	Under art. 50 "Coordination." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 50, which becomes art. 49.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u141	Vote art. 49 on the Commission report. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. Article 49 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u142	Under art. 51 "Executiveness." Proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 51, which shall become Article 51. 50: "Communication" Art. 50. (1) When the European Commission requests information or assistance from the Republic of Bulgaria under an aid measure, the Minister of Finance, respectively the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall send to the administrator of aid or to the relevant competent authority and to the beneficiary of the aid a request for information, specifying the terms and the period for its provision. (2) The administrator of aid or the competent authority concerned shall be obliged, within the time limit set by the Minister of Finance or by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, to provide the requested information and to provide the necessary assistance. (3) The beneficiary of the aid shall be obliged to provide the necessary assistance to the aid administrator, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the European Commission respectively, including by providing access, providing information or a declaration and expressing an opinion on each particular case, under the conditions and within the time limit laid down in the request under para. 1. (4) The request for information under para. 1 can also be done electronically. (5) The Minister of Finance, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, respectively, shall, within seven working days of receipt of a decision by the European Commission to terminate the granting of aid, require the aid administrator to take action to implement that decision. Where the aid administrator is the relevant minister, he shall take action to implement the decision. The decision shall be published on the website of the Ministry concerned. (6) A decision of the Council of Ministers may lay down aid measures under art. 21 to be considered by the European Commission as a priority. The Minister of Finance informed the European Commission about the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u143	Are there any speeches? No. I shall put to the vote art. 50 on the Commission report. Vote 112 MPs: for 111, against none, abstention 1. Article 50 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u144	Under art. 52 "Constructions and order of exchange of information." The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 52 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place as § 4, para. 1, t. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u145	We are voting on the Commission's proposal for art. 52 by importer. Vote 108 MPs: for 107 against 1, no abstentions. The Commission's proposal to reject art. 52 by importer accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u146	Under art. There is a proposal of the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 53, which becomes art. 51: "State aid reference system' Art. 51. (1) The Minister of Finance shall build and maintain an information system for monitoring and coordination of State aid at central, regional and municipal level in accordance with its competence under art. 7, para. 1. (2) The system under para. 1 is a complex of measures to exchange information, build and maintain administrative capacity, which includes at least: a dedicated website, a register of minimum aids, standardised forms and other information ensuring transparency of State aid. (3) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall maintain information on the State aid and minimum aid provided in the field of agriculture, rural development, forestry and hunting and fisheries, and shall ensure their transparency.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u147	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 51 on the Commission report. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. Article 51 on the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u148	Art. There is a proposal from the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 54, which becomes art. 52: "Archives and Registers" Art. 52. (1) On the basis of information from the aid administrators, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, respectively, processes and stores summary information on the State aids and minimum aids provided. (2) In order to ensure transparency and reporting of State aid and minimum aid, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, respectively, shall maintain records and records of: 1. notifications of aid, including those sent to the European Commission; 2. the decisions of the European Commission on State aid schemes and individual State aids; 3. the de minimis aid granted; 4. decisions to recover unlawful and incompatible State aid or unlawful State aid as well as the beneficiaries of aid to be recovered; 5. other data where necessary. (3) In order to ensure transparency of State aid, aid administrators shall provide information for a notice in the register maintained by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u149	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 52 on the Commission report. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. Article 52 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u150	Article 55 "Transparency." The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 55 to be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as § 4, para. 1, t. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u151	We are voting on the Commission's proposal for art. 55 by importer. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. Article 55 by importer is rejected on a proposal from the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u152	The Court of Justice held that the Court of Justice did not have jurisdiction in the present case and that the Court The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Eight.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u153	We are voting on the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Eight, supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The name of Chapter Eight is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u154	Under art. The Commission supports the text of the importer for art. Article 56, which becomes Art. 53.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u155	Vote art. 53 on the Commission report. They voted 106 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 1. Article 53 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u156	Under art. The Commission supports the text of the importer for art. 57......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 57, which becomes art. 54, by offering in para. 4 t. 5 words................................................................................. For the purpose of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply:
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u157	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 54, as proposed by the Commission report. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. Article 54 on the Commission report has been adopted unanimously. Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u158	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the GERB parliamentary group, please give a 30-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u159	Fifteen-minute break. [[Radio.]] [[After the break]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u160	Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u161	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 58, which becomes art. 55, by offering in para. 1 everywhere and in para. 2 words.............................................................................. 57- To be replaced by ................................................................................................. 54...................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u162	Are there any speeches? I won't. Vote art. 55 as proposed in the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. Article 55 on the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u163	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 59, which becomes art. 56. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 60, which becomes art. 57.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u164	We are voting on Articles 56 and 57 on the Commission report. Vote 89 MPs: 87, none, abstention 2. Articles 56 and 57 on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u165	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 61, which becomes art. 58, offering the words "c." For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u166	Vote art. 58, as proposed by the Commission report. They voted 93 MPs: 90, none, abstention 3. Article 58 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u167	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 62, which becomes Art. 59, offering the words. 60 and 61 57 and 58.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u168	Vote art. 59, as proposed by the Commission report. Vote 101 MPs: 98 against 1, abstention 2. Article 59 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u169	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 63, which becomes Art. 60, offering in t. 6 words................................................................................. For the purpose of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply:
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u170	Vote art. 60, as proposed by the Commission report. Vote 99 MPs: for 98, against none, abstention 1. Article 60 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u171	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 64, which becomes Art. 61.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u172	Vote art. 61 on the Commission report. Vote 105 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 2. Article 61 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u173	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 65, which becomes art. 62, by offering in para. 1 and 2 words................................................................................................ OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1. 60.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u174	Vote art. 62, as proposed by the Commission report. 107 MPs vote: 105, none, abstention 2. Article 62 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u175	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 66, which becomes Art. 63, offering the words. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1. 60.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u176	Vote art. 63 on the Commission report as proposed. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. Article 63 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u177	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 67, which becomes Art. 64.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u178	Vote art. 64 on the Commission report. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. Article 64 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u179	"Chapter 9" "Administrative-Criminal Provisions." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Ninth.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u180	We vote on the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 9 which is supported by the Commission. Vote 105 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 1. The name of Chapter 9 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u181	Under art. 68 has a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 68, which becomes Art. 65: The administrator shall not be designated by the administrator. Art. 65. (1) A person who violates the requirements of art. 11, a fine or a penalty of 1000 to 5000 BGN is imposed. (2) An official who has committed an infringement under para. 1 shall be punished with a fine of 100 to 500 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u182	Vote art. 65 on the Commission report. Vote 109 MPs: for 107, no objection, abstention 2. Article 65 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u183	Under art. 69 has a proposal from the MPs Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 69, which becomes art. 66: Total liability Art. 66. (1) An administrator of aid which provided either State aid costs or minimum aid in violation of the law of the European Union or of the Bulgarian legislation shall be subject to a fine or penalty of 2000 to 5000 BGN. (2) An official who has committed an infringement under para. 1, shall be punished with a fine of 200 to 500 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u184	Vote art. 66 on the Commission report. Vote 105 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 2. Article 66 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u185	Under art. 70 has a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 70, which becomes art. 67: ? Responsibility for non-compliance with procedures Art. 67. (1) An administrator of aid which does not fulfil an obligation under art. Art. 13, 14 or 14 15, para. 1, a fine or a penalty of 1000 to 4000 BGN is imposed. (2) An official who has committed an infringement under para. 1 shall be punished with a fine of 100 to 400 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u186	Vote art. 67 on the Commission report. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. Article 67 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u187	Under art. 71 has a proposal from the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 71, which becomes art. 68: "Not performing documentation, information and coordination' Art. 68. (1) An administrator of aid which does not fulfil an obligation under art. Art. 17, art. 24, para. Art. 3, Art. Art. 27 or art. 50, para. 2, a fine or a penalty of 500 to 3000 BGN is imposed. (2) An official who permits infringement under para. 1 is punished with a fine of 50 to 300 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u188	Vote art. 68 on the Commission report. They voted 102 MPs: 100, none, abstention 2. Article 68 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u189	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 72, which becomes Art. 69.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u190	Vote art. 69 on the Commission report. They voted 110 MPs: for 107, there are none, three abstentions. Article 69 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u191	The Commission shall support the text of the importer art. 73, which becomes Art. 70, by offering in para. 1 words.............................................................................. For the purpose of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: 34.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 74, which becomes Art. 71, by offering in para. 1 words.............................................................................. For the purpose of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: 28............................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 75, which becomes Art. 72, by offering in para. 1 words.............................................................................. For the purpose of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: Please tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking any other medicines. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 76, which becomes Art. 73, by offering in para. 1 words.............................................................................. The following shall be added in Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009: Thirty-six.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u192	We are voting in Articles 70, 71, 72 and 73 as presented to us in the Commission Report. They voted 106 MPs: for 103, they won't mind, they abstentioned 3. Articles 70, 71, 72 and 73, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u193	Under art. 77 has a proposal from the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the importer's proposal and proposes the following version of art. Article 77, which becomes Article 77. 74: Not issuing an act Art. 74. (1) An administrator of aid which does not issue an act establishing a public claim under art. 37, para. 1 or art. 38, para. 3, a fine or a penalty of 4,000 to 10 000 BGN is imposed. (2) An official who permits infringement under para. 1 shall be punished with a fine of 400 to 1000 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u194	Vote art. 74 on the Commission report. 110 MPs voted: 108, none, abstention 2. Article 74 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u195	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 78, which becomes Art. 75, by offering in para. 1 words.............................................................................. For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 79, which becomes Art. 76, by offering in para. 1 words.............................................................................. For the purpose of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: 48..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u196	I shall put to the vote art. 75 and 76, as presented to us in the Commission report. Vote 112 MPs: for 111, against none, abstention 1. Articles 75 and 76 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u197	Under art. 80 has a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 80, which becomes Art. 77 and offers in para. 1 words.............................................................................. To be replaced by............................................................................................................ It's 50. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 81, which becomes Art. 78, offering the words..................................................................................... 68-80s to be replaced
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u198	We are voting in Articles 77 and 78, as proposed in the Commission report. Vote 115 MPs: for 114, against no, abstention 1. Articles 77 and 78 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u199	Under art. 82 has a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 82, which becomes Art. 79: "Company of acts Art. 79. (1) The acts establishing infringements under this Law shall be drawn up by officials authorised by the Director of the State Financial Inspection Agency within 6 months of the detection of the intruder, but not later than 4 years after the infringement has been committed. (2) Criminal orders shall be issued by the Director of the Agency for State Financial Inspection or by officials authorised by him. (3) The establishment of infringements, the issuance, appeal and execution of criminal ordinances shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 83 which becomes Art. 80.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u200	Vote art. 78 and 80 on the Commission report. Vote 107 MPs: for 106, against none, abstention 1. Articles 79 and 80 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u201	"Additional provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. According to § 1, there is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Within 1. A grant act shall be any legal provision, written act, actions or omissions granting or giving rise to the right to receive State aid or to minimal aid. 2. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 3. The internal market is a concept within the meaning of art. 26 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 4. These activities are related to the maintenance, development, conservation and protection of forest areas and the extraction and use of wood and non-woody forest products. 5. The date on which the aid is granted shall be the date of entry into force of the act on the basis of which the aid is granted to the beneficiary. 6. A dominant influence shall be present where a public authority: (a) owns more than 50 percent of the enterprise's capital or votes in the General Assembly of Associates; or (b) hold a blocking quota in the company's capital; or (c) may appoint more than half of the members of the management or control bodies of the undertaking; or (d) may individually influence the decision-making of the undertaking. 7. "State aid" is any aid covered by art. 107 § 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union granted by the State or by the Municipality or at the expense of State or municipal resources, directly or through other persons, in any form whatsoever which distorts or threatens to distort free competition by favouring certain undertakings, the production or trade of certain goods, or the provision of certain services, in so far as trade between Member States of the European Union is concerned. 8. A delay obligation is a requirement to refrain from putting an envisaged State aid measure into effect prior to the proper notification and delivery of a decision by the European Commission on this measure. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.), hereinafter referred to as the "Regulation (EU) 2015/1589'. 10. The activities related to the production, processing, preparation for the marketing and marketing of agricultural products referred to in Annex I to Article 1 shall be activities related to the production, processing, preparation for the marketing and marketing of agricultural products. 38 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 11. In this respect, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 12. Other events are events caused by unforeseen or non-preventional circumstances of an extraordinary nature, which are not the result of natural disasters, but are the result of force majeure such as blockades, locautions, accidents, uprisings, revolutions, wars, fires, major industrial accidents and other circumstances resulting from the occurrence of the development of public relations. 13. The economic activity is any activity of offering goods and services on the market, as well as any activity, the results of which are intended to exchange the market, whether it forms and distributes profit or other income. The provision of material and intangible property and rights is also considered to be an economic activity. 14. The amount of the interest on unlawful aid is the amount of the interest rate that offsets the advantage of the beneficiary of unlawful State aid for the period from the date on which the aid is available to the beneficiary until the date of its full recovery, as established by Chapter V of Commission Regulation (EC) No 794/2004 of 21 April 2004 implementing Council Regulation (EU) 2015/1589 laying down detailed rules for the application of Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 15. "Minimum aid' is de minimis aid which does not distort or threaten competition or has a negligible impact on competition because of its minimum amount, as defined in the existing minimum aid regulations adopted by the European Commission on the application of art. 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 16. The aid measure is each developed or granted in accordance with the law of the European Union and the Bulgarian legislation State aid or minimal aid, regardless of its nature and whether it is granted in the form of an aid scheme or as individual aid. 17. "Incorrectly used State aid' is such State aid which is used by the beneficiary in breach of a decision taken under art. The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 18. "Indeed State aid' is State aid which has been granted in violation of art. 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 19. "Indeterminately received de minimis aid' is a minimum aid granted in breach of a minimum aid regulation. 20. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 34. 21. The General Block Exemption Regulation is the exemption from prior notification obligation under art. 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union when granting certain categories of State aid in accordance with European Commission regulations adopted on the basis of art. Council Regulation (EU) 2015/1588 of 13 July 2015 on the application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to certain categories of horizontal State aid (OJ L 248/1 of 24 September 2015).), including their amendments and additions, with the exception of a minimum aid regulation and regulations on agriculture, rural development, forestry and hunting and fisheries. 22. "Reportable data' is the data which, under the State aid act, refers to the funds that are: (a) actually paid, and/or (b) payable. 23. The formal investigation procedure is a procedure under art. 6 of Regulation (EU) 2015/1589. 24. A repeated infringement is the infringement committed within one year of the entry into force of an act imposing a penalty on the violator for the same by type of infringement. 25. The aid exempted from notification by an act of the Council of the European Union or of the European Commission shall be aid to which the obligation of prior notification under art. 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on grounds other than a general block exemption regulation and a minimum aid regulation. 26. The provision and management of State aid or of minimal aid is the creation of any form of opportunity to use public resources and the related actions in implementing implementation and control of the implementation of the conditions and procedures for the use of the aid, in accordance with the rules on State aid laid down in the law of the European Union and the Bulgarian legislation. 27. The public authority is a single or collegiate body which has authority in the field of state and local social and/or economic structure, governance and control and is financed by the state or municipal budget. 28. The following conditions are met: (a) more than half of the members of its management or control body shall be designated by contracting entities under art. 5, para. 2, p. 1 s 14 of the Public Procurement Act or more than half of its revenue for the previous budget year is financed from the state budget, from the budgets of the state social security, from municipal budgets or from contracting entities under art. 5, para. 2, p. 1 s 14 of the Public Procurement Act; (b) subject to management control by contracting entities under art. 5, para. 2, p. 1 s 14 of the Public Procurement Act; management control is in place when a person may in any way exercise a dominant influence over the activities of another person. 29. A public undertaking is any undertaking over which public authorities can exercise, directly or indirectly, dominant influence. A public undertaking shall also be considered to be any legal person financed, in whole or in part, by means of State or municipal budget funds, or entitled to spend such funds. 30. "Development' is the activity of defining the terms, arrangements and mechanisms for granting State aid or minimum aid in favour of a specific recipient, as well as setting out measures to control its compliance with the State aid rules laid down in the law of the European Union and the Bulgarian legislation. 31. "Regional aid' is State aid to promote the economic development of disadvantaged regions in the European Union which can be considered compatible on the basis of art. 107 (3) (c) and (d) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 32. The decision to authorise the State aid in question is an act of the European Commission for non-application of objections, a positive decision and a positive decision under certain conditions. 33. The activities of legal persons, sole traders and natural persons covering commercial fisheries and aquaculture are activities of legal persons. 34. The State aid involved is a concept within the meaning of art. Point (b) of Article 1 of Regulation (EU) 2015/1589. 35. The State aid scheme is any act on the basis of which, without requiring additional implementing measures, individual State aid may be granted to one or more undertakings defined in the act in a general and abstract manner and any act on the basis of which aid not related to a particular project may be granted to one or more undertakings for an indefinite period and/or of an indefinite amount.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u202	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the division, as well as § 1, presented to you just now by the parliamentary tribune. Vote 107 MPs: for 104, against 1, abstention 2. The name of the division is accepted as additional provision and § 1 of that division. ..transitional and final provisions....sent the entire division, please, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u203	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. Paragraph 4 "A proposal from the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................(1) Within one year of the entry into force of the law: 1. The Council of Ministers shall adopt rules for the enforcement of the law. 2. The Minister of Finance shall adopt the ordinance under art. 15, ) (a.k.a. 2. (2) Until the adoption, respectively, the issue of the acts under para. 1 The regulations in force shall apply insofar as they do not conflict with the law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. Under paragraph 6, there is a proposal from the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made in accordance with Article 6. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: § 6. In the Law on State Financial Inspection (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 t. 7 at the beginning is added to the aid administrators and after the word....................................................................................................... 2. in art. 5, para. 1, t. 3 the words "the acquisition of state-owned' shall be replaced by the provision and use of state-owned or de minimis. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7 by proposing in paragraph 7. 2 words.............................................................................. For the purpose of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 8 by proposing the words "art." For the purpose of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: 28............................................................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 9 by proposing the words "art." For the purpose of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: 28............................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u204	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the division of the "Transitional and final provisions', as well as paragraphs 2 to 12, including on the Commission report. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The term "Transitional and Final Provisions', as well as paragraphs 2 to 12, including on the Commission report, are unanimously adopted, and thus the Second Voting Bill. Let us thank the rapporteurs from the parliamentary tribune, as well as all colleagues for their participation in the bill. Parliamentary control announcements on Friday 13 October 2017: 1. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer five questions from the MPs Mihail Hristov, Irena Anastasova, Alexander Simov, Nikolay Tishev and Nikolay Boshkov. 2. Interior Minister Valentin Radev will answer two questions from the MPs Dora Yankova and Radoslav Stoychev and Violeta Zhelev and Nikola Dinkov. 3. The Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov. 4. Culture Minister Boel Banov will answer a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev and a question from the National Representative Nona Yotova. 5. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MP Dora Yankova. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva to a question from the National Representative Ivo Hristov; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva to two questions from the MPs Elhan Kulkov and Sergey Kichikov, and Teodora Halacheva; - the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to two questions from the MPs Stefan Burgeev and Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev of a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov, one question from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to two questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Georgi Turnovalyski. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - question and question from the MP Ivo Hristov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and the Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva; - five questions from the MPs Yordan Mladenov; Boris Yachev; Stanislav Vladimirov, Lyubomir Bonev and Georgi Stoilov; Stanislav Vladimirov; Krum Zarkov, Georgi Stoilov and Pencho Milkov to the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov; - a question from the MP Boris Yachev to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will not participate. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov and the Minister for Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will not participate. Due to the running out of time for today's plenary session, I am closing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-12.u205	Tomorrow, a 9:00 session with legislative activity, then parliamentary control. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
