ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] On the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I suggest that we include as a second point for the Program today a hearing of Prime Minister Ognian Gerdzhikov there is such a request. On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 110 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to hold a hearing of Prime Minister Ognian Gerdzhikov on the personnel changes in the management of the caretaker government regarding the release and appointment of regional governors, members of board and managers in the commercial companies with state participation, as well as directors of executive agencies, on the grounds of these personnel decisions and selection criteria for newly appointed managers. On the basis of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to include the hearing as point one of the National Assembly's Programme as an additional point for 21 April 2017 However, I suggest that this be point two in order to comply with the order of receipt of requests for a hearing. Please vote. They voted 207 MPs: for 199, against 1, abstention 7. The proposal is accepted and the item will be included as item two of today's agenda. Message: In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria Deputy Minister for Internal Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the sending of troops from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria to participate in a multinational exercise in Romania. The provisions of the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria are notified to the competent state authorities. Following the election of permanent committees of the National Assembly, the notification will be made available to the relevant portfolio committee, according to the established parliamentary practice. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u2	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, I am making a procedural proposal because of the high social importance and importance affecting the lives and health of thousands of Bulgarians, point one of today's program to be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian national television and Bulgarian national radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 199 MPs: 169, against 6, abstention 24. The motion is accepted. Please turn on the cameras and microphones of the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. Moving on to: HEARING OF THE HALF-SEMERGE OFFICER MINISTER OF THE ENVIRONMENT AND WATER IRINA COST AND THE REGONAL DEVELOPMENT MINISTER AND THE BLAGOSTER SPACE ABOUT THE PRE-ACCESSION MEASURES FOR THE HEALTH OF THE SETTLEMENT. On behalf of the importers, Mrs. Yoncheva. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u4	Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable MPs, as a member of the Haskovo region and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the BSP for Bulgaria....I asked for this hearing because the people in the town of Haskovo are worried. Worried and scared, ladies and gentlemen! For months, citizens have consumed water from central water supply, which has increased natural uranium and alpha activity. 16 watermen have been placed in the city today. In hospitals, in kindergartens, bottled water is delivered to social institutions. Due to the suspension of two pumping stations there is a real danger of introducing water mode. Since April 14, water from Haskovo's central water supply is not recommended to be used for drinking purposes. How did it come to this? Since when in Haskovo, since when does the knowledge of the institutions responsible for our health reach the end-user with increased levels of uranium and alpha activity? The citizens of Haskovo find out about the dangerous water for their health only after a letter dated 14 April 2017 to the Swimming Directorate of Belomorski Oblast (BiH) informed the Director of the Regional Health Inspectorate Haskovo, and the Manager of the Water Department of Haskovo, about the existence of an increased content of total alpha activity and natural uranium from Pompena Station. On sampling in September 2016, the European Food Safety Authority ("the Authority') concluded that the conditions for authorisation, as provided for in Article 5 of Regulation (EC) No 1829/2003, are satisfied. "September 2016, alpha activity levels of 1,37 bekerellas per litre have been established at acceptable levels of 0,1. The same sample showed a concentration of natural uranium 0,098 milligrams per litre at a level of 0,03. The pool directorate at the same time recommends termination or maximum limitation of water use. This is the data on the surveys carried out for 2016. So, six months after excess levels of harmful substances have been found in the drinking water of Haskovo, an interdepartmental committee has been set up that recommends that water is not used for drinking purposes. However, the citizens of Haskovo ask: Since when is it known that the water in the city contains high levels of uranium and alpha particles and no measures have been taken? Let's see what we've got in the last three years. When sampling during the second half of 2015 at the same underground point of Pompena Station, the Basin Directorate of the East-West Sea Region is reporting excess values of total alpha activity 1,44 bekerels per litre at 0,5 levels, as well as of uranium 0,07 milligrams per litre at 0.06 levels. These are the studies carried out for 2015. For 2014, ladies and gentlemen, once again at Pump Station "Haskovo 1" Swimming Directorate registered elevated levels only of alpha activity a beckerel per litre at permissible levels 0,5. Three years in a row, the Ministry of Environment and Water has identified discrepancies with the regulatory requirements of water quality by chemical alpha-activity indicator and two years in a row there is an increase in uranium. What measures has the Ministry of Health taken, the Regional Health Inspection of the town of Haskovo for these three years? The above-mentioned studies are public. At the beginning of each year they shall be published on the website of the Executive Environment Agency. Moreover, as early as 27 April 2016, a meeting in Haskovo District Administration became known.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u5	Five seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u6	The deputy governor is also present at this meeting. I hope today's hearing gives us some information. [[the President signals that time has run out]] why, since the Ministry of Health had access to the analyses carried out for three years in a row, has not introduced society to the risks of water use in the past. Vina bears the government of GERB, ladies and gentlemen and Boyko Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Yoncheva. Thank you, Mrs. Yoncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u8	This crime is responsible for the Minister of Health Petar Moskov, Lilyana Pavlova and Ivelina Vassileva. That's why we have papers. [[Noise and lines from GERB. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u9	Mrs. Yoncheva, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u10	Thank you for your attention. I understand that this topic is not interesting for you, I advise you to drink water in Haskovo... [[The National Representative continues to speak with microphones off. Noise and lines by GERB. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u11	Who's gonna take credit for that? [[GERB lines: procedure, procedure!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u12	There is a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u13	Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Please strictly follow the procedure under art. 110 of the Rules of Procedure. The speakers of this tribune in this procedure cannot draw conclusions on the occasion of a hearing. [[Reply by National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] The point of the hearing is that the ministers who are here to testify give facts and circumstances. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria: Did you just come up with this?]] Then, in this procedure, any speaker could take an opinion on what the honourable ministers heard will express and present to your attention. Please, Mr President, first of all, respect the time and, secondly, respect the meaning and content of the procedure. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u15	Which of the ministers will take the attitude? Here you are, Mr. Semerdzhiev, you have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! According to the Water Act and the Health Act, a competent authority in the Republic of Bulgaria in the field of quality of drinking water of the crane in the consumer is the Ministry of Health and its regional structures. As regards the specific situation in Haskovo, I am providing you with the following information: On 4 April 2017 in RZI-Haskovo a letter was received from the Basin Directorate of the East-West-West-West-West-West-Old-Old-Plovdiv for an established increased total alpha-activity content of 1.37 bekerels per litre at control level 0,1 bekerella per litre and total alpha-activity content of natural uranium 0.098 milligrams per litre at a maximum permissible value of 0.03 milligrams per litre in water samples taken in September 2016 an underground monitoring point in the National Environmental Monitoring System Pumping Station. Immediately on April 4th, at the insistence of RZI-Haskovo, a joint inspection was carried out with representatives of VIC-Haskovo at the said Pump Station and five samples were taken for laboratory analysis.. One of the collection shafts and four of pipe wells from one to four were sent for analysis to the National Centre for Radiobiology and Radiation Protection. A meeting was held on April 5th between RZI-Haskovo and the manager of VIC, which discussed the results received by the Swimming Directorate and the actions to be taken to protect people's health. To identify the problem, additional water samples were taken from the remaining five pipe wells and on 6 April were delivered for testing at the National Centre of Radiation Protection. On 7 April at the initiative of RZI - Haskovo was held a meeting with the district governor of Haskovo in the presence of the deputy mayor of the municipality, the director of RZI and the representative of VIK. Following a discussion of the situation as a preventive measure until the results of the samples taken have been released on the basis of which an initial assessment of the existence of health risk of the manager of the VIC has been provided with prescriptions No 45 of 7 April 2017 to provide consumers with drinking water with a quality meeting the regulatory requirements by finding an adequate technical solution and order RD 032-12 of 7 April 2017 for temporary suspension of the operation of all pipe wells of the Pumping Station By a report of the same day, the Director of RZI informed the Minister of Health of the situation and of the actions taken so far. On 8 and 9 April there were co-ordinating and clarifying the situation talks with RZI - Haskovo, meetings at expert level, directorates of Directorates at the Ministry of Health, Minister, Deputy Minister, and on 10 April the topic was discussed at regular management of the Ministry of Health. Also on 10 April an operational meeting was held at the initiative of the Minister of Health, attended by experts from the Ministry, Haskovo District Governor, the manager and chief engineer of the VIC - the company of Haskovo, directors and experts from the National Centre for Radiobiology and Radiation Protection in Sofia. At the meeting were presented and discussed the preliminary results of the analysis of the National Centre for Radiobiology and Radiation Protection and water samples taken on 4 and 5 April by all pipe wells at Pompena Station Natural uranium deviations from 0,041 milligrams per litre to 0,064 milligrams per litre were found at the 0.03 milligrams per litre norm in four of the wells. The manager of VIC - Haskovo informed us that the company has already taken action to ensure technical supply of drinking water with the necessary qualities by providing water from another water supply area. It was found that the water supply company did not comply with one of the provisions of Order RD 032-12 on 11 April, as a result of which an act establishing an administrative infringement was issued on 19 April. On 11 April, according to the preliminary results of the chemical analyses carried out by natural uranium benchmark taken on 4 and 5 April and on the basis of the preliminary expert opinions provided by the National Centre for Radiobiology and Radiation Protection, the Director of RZI Haskovo ordered the company to stop all pipe wells which showed non-compliance in the quality of the water submitted. A prescription has been issued to take additional measures to ensure the health of the population and to provide additional information. Samples have already been taken from different points in the districts of Haskovo, where the water supply is reorganized to establish the effectiveness of the measures taken and the quality of the water supplied. On 11 April at an extraordinary meeting, the management of the Ministry of Health after an analysis of the situation, at the initiative of the Minister of Health was held a meeting with the Minister of Environment and Water, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, where opportunities for coordinated joint actions to resolve the problem were discussed. Meanwhile, experts from the World Health Organisation were invited to provide technical assistance on the ground, assess the situation and proposals for lasting solutions. By order of 11 April 2017, the three ministers were established an Interdepartmental Working Group to take measures to prevent health risks to the population and inform the public. On the same date, the Ministry of Health sent a press release to the media to give initial information about the development of the situation. A press conference at the Ministry of Health with the participation of representatives of the three ministries and the National Centre for Radiation Protection took place on 12 April. On 12 April, samples for drinking water, taken the previous day additionally by RZI, Haskovo, on the crane with the user, were delivered for necessary analyses. On the basis of the checks carried out, Order No RD-032-14 of 12 April shall be issued to the water supply company for stopping the supply of water from a pipe well 3 due to the deterioration of the endocrine qualities of the water supplied by this well and consequently the inability to conduct an express examination of the natural uranium benchmark. At two meetings on the 13th and 18 April, the interdepartmental working group established by order of 11 April, based on the results of analyses carried out at the Executive Agency of Environment and the National Centre of Radiation Protection, the following decisions have been taken. First of all, recommendations are given to RZI - Haskovo, intended for the water operator and Haskovo municipality, with a view to providing water for drinking and cooking in children's and educational institutions, as well as in medical facilities. Secondly, to continue monitoring for end-user performance and pipe wells used for water supply by testing the samples in the Executive Environment Agency and the National Centre for Radiobiology and Radiation Protection. Thirdly, an organisation has been established to coordinate the activities of the territorial structures of the individual competent authorities to implement the statutory measures, exchange of information and take joint action to prevent health risks. Fourth, in relation to the results provided by the EEA and the NDC for detection at individual points in the consumer of a continuing non-compliance according to the natural uranium benchmark, the values currently established are from 0,038 mg/l, up to 0,048 mg/l, as well as in pump station facilities of Haskovo 1 and pump station of Haskovo 2, where the data are from 0,038 mg/l up to 0,1 mg/l, the same decision has been taken to be stopped from operation. Given that drinking water in small quantities is added as a raw material in food production, no health risk for the population is assumed and a response is expected from the Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre. Meanwhile, on April 15th, a minister and Deputy Minister of Health held a management and coordination meeting in Haskovo with the district governor, mayor, director of RZI and the manager of the VAC, in order to get acquainted with the situation on the ground and conduct an briefing on drinking water problems, water supply and solutions of the Trilateral Interdepartmental Working Group. On 18 April the Ministry of Health published a press release on the decisions and recommendations of the working group, and on 20 April letters were sent to the Centre for Risk Assessment on the Food Chain and to the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis with a view to collecting statistical data in order to analyse disease and disease from kidney and onclotting. At present, in order to protect the health of the population, the authorities of state and health control in Haskovo control the implementation of all recommended measures. From their competence, the drinking water supplied via water heaters by decision of the water operator is carried out by pumping station RZI Haskovo also controls water supplied by water, as well as control of the cleaning and disinfection process. Regarding the interdepartmental working group, its activity focuses on concentrating a common database, analysis and making coordinated operational decisions to limit health risk, improve the quality of drinking water, analyse the results of radiological control, coordinate interaction between institutions and risk communication. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] An interim report shall be prepared on the situation created, which will contain specific recommendations for strengthening the checks and controls of water sources, especially close to closed uranium mines, recommendations for carrying out additional controls on former uranium mines, proposals for urgent improvement of the laboratory capacity of state and health control authorities and other competent institutions, analysis of the possibilities for the construction of uranium treatment plants in drinking water. In order to improve the activities of water-related departments, recommendations will also be made to update the current regulatory base. It should be taken into account that, in relation to the WHO recommendations on the quality of the drinking water supplied to consumers in the Republic of Bulgaria from 2011, more conservative standards for natural uranium benchmarking have been introduced gradually. According to the WHO data, the limit for natural uranium is determined by the consumption of water throughout human life and therefore the short-term use of water with a deviation above the standards adopted in Bulgaria does not pose an immediate health risk. This is also confirmed by the existing higher standards from 2011 for the natural uranium benchmark up to 0,06 mg/l. With changes in legislation, this norm has been amended more than twice as low as 0.03 mg/l. This shows that at present there is no health risk. Evaluations after receiving the final results of the studies will be done quickly enough and will be communicated to both you and the public. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u17	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health. Before we move on to questions from the parliamentary groups, allow me to remind you of the procedural rules for the hearing, namely that is art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2 of our Rules: When the National Assembly proceed to the hearing, the speaker of the proposal for a hearing shall make a presentation of the questions within 5 minutes, which has already happened. The Hearing Persons shall inform the National Assembly on the issues subject to the hearing within 10 minutes, which has also already happened. Any of the parliamentary groups shall be entitled to 2 questions and the MPs who are not members of a parliamentary group shall be entitled to one question in total, each matter within 2 minutes to the individual persons heard. Hearing persons shall be responsible after asking each question. Parliamentary groups shall have the right to comment on the answers of the persons heard within 5 minutes of asking all questions. I am proposing to you, if you agree, that we proceed this way because the ministers we are listening to are three, after the presentation on behalf of the importers each of the persons heard will inform the National Assembly on the issues subject to the hearing within 10 minutes. Each parliamentary group shall be entitled to two questions to each of the hearing ministers. Due to the number of questions, I propose that their nomination be organised in two rounds at the size of the groups so that all ministers can be heard. Are there any other suggestions? I won't. Please ask the questioners to monitor their time. I'll turn off the microphone at the second minute, no matter how far the questioner gets. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] From the GERB Parliamentary Group? Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u18	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, it is essential for public health that the population be constantly watered with quality and good for its conditions drinking water. The fact is that under the Water Act responsible for the quality of drinking water are the divisions of the Ministry of Health, regional health inspections. The responsibility of the MPs is with the hearings that are held here, not to inspire fear and tension among the population, but to properly clarify the facts and to seek solutions that will enable the situation to be reacted to. Therefore, I would like you to state clearly: what are the qualities and content of the drinking water that RZI has studied with the consumer in the last three years? Because of what I have as a Member of the National Assembly, presented in the Report on the Health of Citizens for 2015, there are no established amounts of uranium and alpha activity in the drinking water. This is an official document which has been submitted to the previous National Assembly. So I want to know if there are other data available to the Ministry of Health, and the most important thing in this case is to emphasise again, although you have made it clear, is there a risk to the health of citizens? Have you created an expert group to give an opinion to radiologists, radiobiologists about this situation, does it lead to specific damage to the health of citizens, and does any additional measures need to do so?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u19	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Your question is to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health? Come in for an answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u20	Dear Dr. Daritkova, Mr. Chairman, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! I would like to respond very specifically by giving the health conclusions that are made periodically every two years specifically for Haskovo. Regional Health Inspectorate Plovdiv does the necessary research submitted by RZI Haskovo and for 2012 there are no deviations in Drinking Station No 1 for the town of Haskovo from the specific volume beta activity, the volume total alpha activity and the concentration of natural uranium. I can also quote exactly what the data is. By the way, I did it in my report. I would repeat to make it very clear as the specific. I'll pull the Regional Health Inspection protocols themselves. Natural uranium then is 0,0005 milligrams per litre, which is well below the dose that is permitted by regulations. The next study was carried out in 2014. This is the protocol of the Regional Health Inspectorate Plovdiv. The finding then is 0.001.. well below the dose of 0.03. In 2016, the Regional Health Inspectorate Haskovo sent to the Water and Health Board a request in connection with the implementation of Directive 2013-51 Euratom of 22 October 2013 to lay down requirements for the protection of the health of the population with regard to radioactive substances intended for consumption in connection with a change in Regulation No 9 which entered into force on 28 November 2015. Then the RGI informed that, due to the periodic monitoring carried out due to the alogical indicators of drinking water from 2012 to 2016, 20 water supply zones with a deviation of total alpha activity and these 20 zones were explicitly listed in a single list of applications, which were divided by years from 2012 to 2016. On the basis of these recommendations to the Water Departments of Haskovo, the VK haskovo took measures for the exploration of uranium and total alpha activity in those water sources using pump stations and pipes. As a result, we have information that they started on their own on 16 March 2014 the submission of samples to the National Centre for Radiobiology and Radiation Protection, whose results came out on 12 April and then we used for the first time not preliminary research data but final data from such studies. As a result, there was an actual increase in doses in some of the pipe wells. As a result of this finding, we took the appropriate measures that I listed in my initial statement. Indeed, we find that there is a health risk at the moment, but this cannot be stated in this way today and finally, but must pass all those samples that are given for radiological research, and the time that requires this is between two and three months optimal. So the risks that are calculated on an annual basis will be much more specifically reported perhaps in about a month and a half or two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u21	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health. Do you have a second question from the GERB Parliamentary Group to the other ministers? Is there a second question to any of the other ministers of the GERB Parliamentary Group? Here you are, dear Mrs. Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. Dear Minister, I ask you as the principal of the water company Haskovo to say is there a risk to the health of Haskovo population and is the quality of drinking water being fed to the population as a result of the samples, checks and all that has been presented as data at the time? From the data presented, I understand that the studies of drinking water from the tap, not the studies of groundwater, show that there is currently no risk to the population and that the necessary water is provided in qualities and quantities that do not pose a risk to the population. Please confirm whether this is the case, what actions have been taken and how you as the principal of the company and respectively the water company has ensured this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u23	Thank you, dear Mrs. Pavlova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u24	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Whether there is a risk to the population you heard Dr. Semerdzhiev, who said that at this stage according to preliminary data there is no risk, but it can be definitively said after the final samples come out. Regarding the actions of the Water and Water Department, Haskovo's chronology of events is as follows. On 4 April, the Swimming Directorate sent a letter to the Regional Health Inspectorate Haskovo and the Waters Department of Haskovo for higher values by natural uranium indicators and total alpha activity during an underground water quality monitoring carried out in September 2016 designed for drinking domestic supply at the pumping station 1 The samples were analysed in the laboratory at the Environmental Executive Agency licensed for groundwater analysis. On 4th and 5th of April, the Water and Water Department of Haskovo together with the Regional Health Inspectorate haskovo immediately took samples from wells from 1 to 9 and from a collection shaft in front of the pumping station 1 and 10, which is for the pumping station Bolyarovo. On 7 April the Director of Regional Health Inspectorate Haskovo ordered the cessation of the operation of wells from 1 to 9 from 7 April and issued prescriptions for hygiene and anti-epidemic measures. Tenth well is still running. In relation to this order and the prescriptions, the water supply has stopped, formed a working group to find a technical solution for providing drinking water, which corresponds to the indicators of Ordinance No 9 on water quality intended for drinking purposes. On 11 April, the Regional Health Inspection ended the Order of 7 April to suspend the temporary operation of pipe wells from 1 to 9 to the pump station 1 and issued an order to suspend the operation of pipe wells numbers 4, 5, 6 and 7. Water and water supply from three other pumping stations is stopped by Haskovo. On 13 April the Swimming Directorate by letter to RZI Haskovo, to the Water and Environment Department and to the Ministry of Environment and Water sends information about further studies of natural uranium in pumping station 1, pumping station 2 and to end users. The analyses are from the laboratory of the Executive Agency "Environment" which is licensed only for underground waters. The pool directorate recommends that an assessment of the health risk and termination or maximum limitation of water sources with evidence of excess radiological performance and additional monitoring of wells at pump station 1 and pump station 2. On 18 April, the National Centre of Radiobiology and Radiation Protection sent a letter to the Ministry of Health on the results of the analysis to determine the content of natural uranium in samples taken from 11 April following a change in the water supply scheme and limiting the supply from pumping station 1. On 19 April, the Regional Health Inspectorate issued an order to stop a well number 10, which was submitted to pump station Bolyarovo and wells with No 1, 2, 3 and 4 of pump station 2. The water supply is in Haskovo, obeying the order and stopping the submission. At present in the execution of orders to stop the operation of sites from the Regional Health Inspectorate Haskovo, the water operator has excluded pump station 1. "Haskovo," pump station "Bolyarovo," and pump station 2. The water operator in recent days has reorganised the water supply by building new connections to reduce the effects of the exclusion of water sources, provided waterproofs in accordance with the orders of the Regional Health Inspection. Haskovo's population has been notified to limit the use of drinking water, drinking needs and food preparation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u25	Thank you, dear Minister. To the Minister of Environment and Water Irina Kostova, is there a question from the Parliamentary Group of GERB? After the question and the answer, we move on to the next parliamentary group in the size of BSP for Bulgaria. No questions? "The People's Representative Ivelina Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u26	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! My question is to the Minister of Environment and Water. Since the exhibition of BSP colleagues claimed that there were wines. Of course, no one is running away from responsibility, but you know that the competent authorities have been asked to verify whether and how the employees have fulfilled their commitments............................... and have made public information available to them........................................................ I would like to ask you whether you have carried out an internal administrative inspection, what was the reaction of the employees from the Swimming Directorate, whether there are staff who have been punished, whether they have been dismissed, that they have not promptly referred to the competent authorities in establishing the results of the samples they have taken from the Executive Environment Agency. Also, given the competence of the Ministry of Environment and Water, which monitors groundwater and groundwater, to what extent do you think the results provided could be interpreted as a health risk, and is not the Ministry of Health what should be definitively ruled on health risks? I would like to appeal to everyone to do a detailed examination, to clarify and to clearly say to the people whether there is a risk to their health, to be clearly announced by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, is there a risk to the production that is produced on the territory of Haskovo...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. [[The National Representative continues to speak to off microphones.]] Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva! Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u28	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Vasileva, in response to your first question, on 11 April 2017, by order of the Minister of the Office, such an intra-office group was appointed to make inquiries as to what was going on in the notification of these results. I want to track when the samples are taken and when their analysis is released. In general, for these indicators,.. alpha activity and uranium are then included radium 226, analyzed once a year by the Ministry of Environment and Water. The analyses usually last about two weeks and are published on the website of the Executive Environment Agency and are made public. This year, these data were provided on 19 January 2017 and are publicly available. As early as 26 April 2016, a working meeting was held in connection with the discussion of river basin management plans attended by representatives of Haskovo District, RZI Haskovo, VK Haskovo. So there is also public information about this data. Then, at the end of May, oral conversations begin......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Ministry of Environment and Water under no law or regulation shall notify the competent authorities. This is done through the Ministry of Environment and Water, where all newsletters are published every quarter. They can be said on dates. With regard to whether the submitted results pose a health risk, it was very well stressed that the Ministry of Environment and Water conducts a general analysis of natural waters, which are the underground waters under Decree No 1, and surface water bodies under Decree No 12. These limits do not correspond to the limit concentrations of Regulation No 9 relating to drinking water. So the Ministry of Environment and Water cannot say about the health risk of the population. The analyses are being conducted, made public, according to our regulations. Incorrectly compare the data from the Ministry of Environment and Water for Groundwater and...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u29	That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u31	Thank you, dear Minister. From BSP's Parliamentary Group for Bulgaria "Welcome, Mr. Mihaylov."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u32	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, gentlemen and ladies of the caretaker government! My question is very brief and very clear to Dr. Semerdzhiev: I am asking you in a collegial way here to introduce to us when, for the first time, from the monitoring of the drinking water in Haskovo, data have appeared that show increased alpha activity and increased amount of uranium? What measures have been taken by your predecessor, as this has happened too early? The data you presented them to us, I remember them, at least that I heard, since September 2016. And why, if there is no health risk to the population as you argued there is no, now the water supply is carried out in Haskovo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u33	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. [[Applause from BSP.]] Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u34	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mikhailov! For the first time we received data from this letter from the Swimming Directorate, as we quoted, from 4 April 2017. However, since these are data actually taken not with end-user, we were obliged to do our own research, our own measurements, so we took samples on 4th and 5 April 2017, as a result of which the preliminary information on 11 April 2017 is as follows: at Well No 1 dose... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u35	Please order in the court! Please order in the court! [[Noise and laughter from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u36	The well number 1 showed 0.02 milligrams per litre; the well number 2.. 0.02; the well number 3 was returned to the sample due to low endocrine properties and the inability to study, was then further studied; the well number 4.. 0,04, i.e. we already have an increase in the number of the fourth well; the well number 5.06; the well number 6..06; the well number 7.04; the well number 8. 0,01; the well number 9 However, the total water of all these wells results in 0,04, which is 0,01 excess of the maximum permissible dose. This led us, as a result of these preliminary results, to stop using drinking water from wells 4, 5, 6 and 7 as well as from the aggregate water in the collection shaft. As a result, instructions were given to the Water and Water Department of Haskovo to make alternative water supply, including a little later to start a supply of water with water holes at 12 points and then to recommend that the population use water for drinking from other sources and not from the tap. In practice, we have complied with absolutely all requirements to protect the population from potential health risks, although we have quite a minimal excess on an aggregate shaft. By the way, once again, I would like to repeat that, with 0.04 milligrams per litre established, our old data, which is used for natural uranium content in the water, is 0.06. That is, we do not have any risk, but at such an excess, we are obliged to take the necessary precautions. However, as these are preliminary data, we will certainly have a final answer on all issues when the final data comes. The final data will probably be a fact today on 21 April 2017. I expect by returning to the Ministry of Health to have a report from the National Centre of Radiology and Radiation Protection to see what the correct doses are actually found in each of the wells, and not only already at pumping station 1 but also at pumping station 2 and at Uzundzhovo. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u37	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health. To some of the other ministers, colleagues from BSP, come in. You have the floor, dear Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u38	Nikola Dinkov, MP from Haskovo region, BSP for Bulgaria. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable MPs! My question is to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. Dear Minister, the affected neighborhoods in the town of Haskovo will be supplied by other water sources by the official authorities. However, people's fears are that this water will be fed on the existing water supply network. What measures will be taken in the short and long term on this matter? In addition, many food producers in Haskovo are denied orders and they suffer losses. What action will the government take to compensate for the losses of food producers in Haskovo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinkov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm afraid the Minister of Regional Development will not be able to answer the second question. Here you are, Mr. Secretary. And if you want to, try to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The affected areas of water braking in pump stations 1 and 2 are in the district of The water ground facilities to pump station 1 include 9 pipe wells and a collection shaft, while well 10 passes to pump station The residents who are affected by the suspension of pump station 2 are about 3000 people living in the district of Red Wall, Kammenni district and the district of Voevodski. Water supply from other stations will be done as prescribed. I hope the health authorities will tell the plumbing how to secure the pipes on which the new water flows. The Vodnos are operating at 12 points, so hopefully there will be no danger to the population as long as the temporary emergency takes place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u41	Thank you, dear Minister. Question to the Minister of Environment and Water.. Welcome, Mr. Konstantinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, honourable ministers! My question is to the honourable Minister of Environment and Water, Mrs. Kostova. Mrs. Kostova, I have data that I can classify as a criminal act and inaction within your Ministry on uranium pollution. The data is public and I will ask my question on their basis. I am referring to the quarterly underground newsletter of 30 January 2015, 16.05 pm, the quarterly newsletter of 2 February 2016, published at 11.31 pm. The data there show that the total alpha activity and uranium have significant excesses and they increase cumulatively every year. The third fact, I want to correct you, is not from the 26th, but on April 27th, when in Haskovo, the regional administration held an extremely important meeting on river basin management plans, which were flowers and roses, everything was fine! It turns out that the dirty waters of Neochim do not get dirty, but almost improve the environment. The record says it wasn't taken into account. Mrs. Minkova has never heard of uranium contamination! Ladies and gentlemen and Madam Minister, we come to the protocol of 19 January 2017, which clearly shows that for three years a cumulative 40% increase in alpha activity and uranium levels each year and that this problem exists! My question is this: in the conditions of constantly actively exceeding the levels of alpha activity and natural uranium in the area of the Basin Directorate East-Belmore Region...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u43	Your minutes are up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u44	...what measures have you and your predecessors taken and is this reflected in the river basin management plans? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kostadinov! The review in the years back shows that there is a variation of data, i.e. not the constant trend of increase. All of this is also known in the Department of Water Management.The entire watery horizon is analyzed due to the presence of uranium mine near the pump station. What has been undertaken by the caretaker government since 10 April 2017 is the following. As I said before, an inter-agency group has been established. As the Swimming Directorate is not authorised by any law or regulation to notify the competent authorities, an order has been issued from April, which has arranged the interaction between the time of receipt of the analysis from the laboratory until notification to the competent authorities. That's what happened to the warrant. What is being done in the Internal Affairs Group is this. New five monitoring points have been appointed. Only the Ministry of Environment and Water carried out 44 analyses, with seven of them for groundwater showing deviations. The monitoring points have been increased. The excesses are in pump stations "Haskovo 1", "Haskovo 2" and pump station "Uzundzhovo 2". In the period 12 April 2017 on the basis of the analysis of the available information, underground water monitoring schemes were developed within the range of the entire water body not only in Haskovo. I said nine points. We expect the analysis of the samples taken on 20 April to be obtained. The available information from specialized hydrogeological studies in the region of Haskovo is collected and analyzed. We sent letters to the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, as uranium mines are being monitored by the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. Their principal is the Minister of Economy. These data we get from their monitoring. A review of available water resources in other water bodies located near the town of Haskovo is currently taking place to assess the possibilities for providing alternative water supply to the town of Haskovo. The collection of information will continue and will be included in the analysis of pressure, impact and risk to the state of the water bodies, which will reflect the river basin management plans and, if necessary, to refine the monitoring of protected drinking water areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u47	Thank you, dear Minister for Environment and Water. We move on to the issues of the United patriots' Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u48	Madam President, honourable Members! Our question is to the Minister of Environment and Water and it consists of the following. Does the Ministry of Environment and Water have a geological assessment of the level of risk? Madam Minister, you mentioned that there was a uranium mine operating nearby? In what connection is the state of this uranium mine because the state of all uranium mining sites after the cessation of uranium production in Bulgaria are out of control, cannot be controlled within the meaning of production. Therefore, I personally believe that this is my opinion that it is precisely the lack of control after the cessation of the operation of uranium fields. As long as uranium fields were exploited, that kind of thing didn't happen. What do geologists say about it? Can this be stopped? What measures can be taken? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u49	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u50	I will again say that the monitoring you are talking about is carried out by the company "Ekoiering" with the principal Minister of Economy. With regard to geology analyses in the area, I can't give you a specific answer right now. I believe that a serious analysis should be carried out on the entire water horizon. This is what we comment on in the internal group, hydrology, hydrogeology and geological research, to include academic circles, and BAS. To establish the pressure of the closed mines and from there to take long-term measures to end, create barriers and prevent these pollutants in the pipe wells and drilling for drinking water supply.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u51	Thank you, dear Minister for Environment and Water. Second question from the United patriots' Parliamentary Group. Here you are, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Ministers! Good afternoon, everyone! My speech was longer, but the other parliamentary groups in their speeches have touched on the topics on which I wanted to ask, so I will limit my speech on what has not been said. It's this. Is there any information in the ministries regarding the construction of illegal water drillings from the non-ergent-quaterner layer, which is in the East-Belmore region, with a depth of between 130 and 200 metres, with these drilling wells being built mainly for irrigation? In their improper making by unauthorized companies, mixing of water from different layers is permitted. This means that waters containing uranium and alpha particles could be found in drinking water by mixing two different layers, such as sarmat and walange. And my second question is...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u53	You don't have a second question, Mr. Apostolov. After the spin. There will be a second round of questions. To whom specifically is your question?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u54	Specifically to the Minister of Environment and Water.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u55	Thank you. Here you are, dear Minister of Environment and Water.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u56	This interdepartmental group, which was established in April, one of its tasks is communication with the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, an official inquiry to them regarding the construction of illegal drilling. Such permits for water use give them the Ministry of Environment and Water. So in an illegal drilling, we can't issue a water-use permit.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u57	Thank you, dear Minister for Environment and Water. Third question from the United Patriots Parliamentary Group? I won't. We are moving on to questions from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u58	Thank you. Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the National Assembly! My question is to the Minister of Health Dr. Ilko Semerdzhiev. From the information you have provided to us and from the public information we have, including the media, it is clear that the marginal concentrations of natural uranium and alpha particles in the Haskovo and Parvomay regions are above the limit concentrations. Moreover, it becomes clear, again on information from the media, that part of this information for a certain period of several months and, according to some and several years, has been concealed for various reasons. Under Bulgarian law, monitoring, auditing and control of the quality of drinking water is carried out by the regional departments of your three ministries. And in this regard, my question to you, Dr. Semerdzhiev, because regional health inspections are responsible for monitoring, auditing, the quality of drinking water, is: do you think there is a need for legislative changes to optimise and make more effective control over the quality of drinking water? I am talking not only about laws, but also about regulations that would improve effective control over the quality of drinking water. Next, do you think screening reviews of people in the affected regions are necessary to demonstrate a possible etiological dependence on the rise and concentration of natural uranium and alpha activity with frequented potential, if so, onclottings in the relevant regions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. He has the floor of the honourable Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u60	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Dr. Ademov! First of all, I would like to announce that the problems have already been solved in Parvomay. Out of eight settlements, two samples were taken, tube wells were found, where there were elevated uranium contents, water supply and water use were limited. And as a result, our final user samples showed that everything was normal, so for Parvomay, we can say right now: there is no danger, there was no danger, and there was none. Of course, for a certain period of time, there has been a need to measure with a view to establishing where there are increased quantities and to exclude them. Regarding whether or not there was a concealment of information, I could not answer because in the end we receive a signal on 4 April and react quickly. You can see that every day since then, we have taken measures and these measures are not accidental from the Ministry of Health alone, but include the other two ministries that are relevant to water. And the establishment of this Interdepartmental Working Group ensures that coordination between the three departments will be good. It also aims to attract additional competences, e.g. from the Ministry of Economy or the Ministry of Agriculture for Food Assessment, to evaluate specifically the former uranium mines, how wells are sealed and so on and so forth. This is precisely one of the tasks of this Tripartite Interdepartmental Working Group to assess the legal and regulatory framework whether it fits well enough to have mutual information between the individual responsible departments, whether it will be timely, how the coordinated operational actions in solving the problems will be implemented. And in my opinion, what we have done shows that such a need already, I can ascertain, is there. And the work of this group will end with such recommendations for changes of regulations, and perhaps also for the people in charge of this I cannot be absolutely sure. With regard to screening reviews with a view to whether any special health damage can actually be identified, I would like to say something very categorical about radiology is not happening quickly. We need three to four months for her. And it is not enough to evaluate only the total indicative doses of alpha and beta nucleodes, but should be included in addition to uranium and many others that are of some degree of radioactivity: lead 210, polonium 210, radium We have already taken such action and the National Centre for Radiobiology and Radiation Protection I suppose within three months will have to give such a general assessment of the indicative dose. And here I want to say something very categorically, you will understand this very well: the total indicative dose is measured per year and its value is 0.1 millievert per year. The World Health Organization allows an excess of this overall indicative dose up to 10 times, i.e. up to 1 millilever per year. In other words, the current deviations are not significant at all for the fact that there are health risks. In terms of what you say, however, as an opportunity to do screening programs for onclotting or kidney disease, because onclottings, I mentioned, the result of this can be given by radiological research, I can say from now on that there will be no positive results, on the contrary it will be negative, I am almost certain of that, but with regard to the chemical element uranium, you know that it is removed through the kidneys, some kidney problems could arise. None of these have been observed, there is no endemicity in Haskovo, although there is a huge amount of uranium produced by 1990. Maybe over 300 tons were obtained in this uranium mine. That is why we do not need to make any special screening programs, but we did ask the National Centre for Public Health for information, and chronological information in the years what the cancer register, the oncoregister, the cancer registry. If we establish a comparative degree of dynamic over the years, of course, we will take appropriate measures immediately. We also requested information from both the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis and the National Health Insurance Fund regarding all those diseases that are related to clinical pathways treating kidney diseases. If we identify specifically in these places deviations from the country's average indicative data, of course, we will also take some special measures. At this stage, however, I firmly answer: there is no need for this. We'll run the appropriate statistical tests, and as soon as we're done with the results, we'll release them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u61	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health. Second issue from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u62	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At the very beginning, I would like to announce that we are asking the question together with my colleague, Yordan Tsonev, who is a MP from Haskovo District, as a MP from Plovdiv region, in view of the concerns he has in these two areas. The good news from yesterday is that for the municipality of Parvomay the results are good. Let us hope that subsequent controls and studies of drinking waters in Parvomay will be good, and hopefully in Haskovo region to normalize the situation as you present this information. From the available publicly available information, Mrs. Minister of Environment and Water, it is clear that the Plovdiv-based Basin Directorate for the Eastern Sea Region has established increased values for the natural uranium indicators and common alpha activity in the period February 2007 in preparation of the 2016 Annual Report. At the same time, information has been uploaded to the Directorate's website, according to which data on excess of the natural uranium indicators and total alpha activity was also available in 2016 because on 27 April 2016 Basinova Directorate for Plovdiv, information was submitted to the Regional Directorate for Regional Administration, Haskovo Municipality, Haskovo Municipality, RZI, VIK. Ltd. haskovo, RIOSV and so on to all competent institutions according to the relevant regulation, not to mention it now. Moreover, so far, our focus has been on the past few months and there is very interesting information. In the annual reports of RIEW Haskovo, on the state of the environment, I refer to the annual reports of RIEW Haskovo, 2010 - 2012, 2014 - 2015, information is available on increased levels of radiological indicators. [[the President signals that time has run out]] in an underground monitoring post Pumpena Station All of this I say not in terms of bringing concern, but on the contrary to pointing out that this problem is clearly present in this region.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u63	Mr. Chakarov, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u64	I'm finishing just one last sentence, Madam President. In view of this, our question is: have all the necessary actions been taken, I see that they have been taken, but I would like to hear them from you, I suppose, by the competent authorities and regional bodies of the Ministry of Environment and Water and by the Executive Environment Agency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, at the risk of repeating myself, there are indeed fluctuations in the data that have been exported by years. In some years we have higher concentration for groundwater, in others we have smaller. Such analyses shall be carried out in the Directorate of Waters with regard to monitoring of the quality of these groundwater. That's what you do all the time. Currently, under Operational Programme "Environment" we have set such a program to expand this monitoring, monitoring points, plus additional indicators to be explored. I would once again say that a broad group should be created here, which will involve other specialists - geologists, hydrogeologists, hydrologists, hydrologists, in order to be able to see from everyone in the years around these wells. I think that not only for Haskovo, this should be done for the whole of Bulgaria, it should be a program. To take action with a very active involvement of the Mining and Geological Institute, an opportunity to limit these pollutants to the wells. And not just uranium and alpha activity, generally for other parameters such as nitrates, especially nitrites and phosphates. But now we're on uranium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u67	Thank you, Madam Minister for Environment and Water. Third issue from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers! Mr. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, my question is to you. Colleagues, do you remember the film "Erin Brockovich" in which Julia Roberts fought for the life and health of many people undergoing environmental pollution of water? Now imagine that the action is developing in Haskovo and Pervomay. As early as last year, there was evidence of elevated uranium standards and alpha activity in the water, but the case wasn't made public. This raises a number of issues related to regional policy in the region and the violation of dozens of members of the regulation. This regulation regulates the quality of the water intended for drinking and household purposes.. Ordinance No 9 of the Minister of Health, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works and the Minister of Environment and Water. The acceptable level for uranium content in drinking water is 0,03 milligrams per litre, but from the samples in two wells in Haskovo a quantity of 0,06 milligrams per litre has been established. A high amount of uranium has been found in Pozhvomay as well. According to Regulation No 9 every five years radiological studies of water must be carried out. Have these been done in the last ten years, when and what are the results of these? We demand that water analysis protocols be made public and made available to the relevant authorities, including Parliament, in order to establish the truth and take adequate measures as quickly as possible in the interests of the public. Under this law, these protocols must be kept in the water companies. The area is identified as risky because mining fields were exploited there years ago by various means of uranium mining and rare metals. Have any extraordinary samples been taken? Notice: Is there a link between the cease-fire enterprise The manager of the water service - the company in Haskovo Todor Markov - was involved in the liquidation of these mines. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u69	Set your course for completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u70	Yes, Madam President. Mr. Minister, my question is: is there any control of the water company, respectively the companies, and who is the control body of the Ministry?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u71	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Here you are, Mr. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The water service has a joint agreement to monitor the water from pumping stations. In the Annual Report of the Controller of the Water Supply and Sewerage Ltd., Haskovo is not mentioned data I am talking about the Annual Report 2016, about pollution of water for drinking purposes and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works has not been informed about a problem of this nature. Regarding the delay, as we said, all three ministers here, on April 4th RZI and VK, Haskovo, have been notified by the Swimming Directorate for increased indicators from September and proven by October 2016 protocol. This is the situation that I also cannot answer, why the water company and the Regional Health Inspectorate were notified only April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u73	Thank you, Mr. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. We move on to the political party's round of questions. Please come in, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u74	Dear Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! There were many numbers beginning with zero, after the comma a few more zeros and few figures at the end, there were also such words On the other hand, there were calls from one side of the room most clearly heard. On the other side there were some others. It became clear that we would be waiting for the results of the contamination. God forbid there'll be no deaths, but maybe there'll be cancer or respiratory disease. I personally draw two conclusions from what I've heard so far. One is that apparently slowly and methodically us citizens of Bulgaria poison us with poor water, poor food and poor air. The other thing that has become clear from the second part of the toss is that only our formation will be...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u75	Mr. Mareshki, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u76	Yeah, it's on the subject, it's on the subject I'm driving.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u77	We await the question to the ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u78	She wasn't involved in management at those times. The only thing that has not become clear and which is, in fact, us as the formation of Voljas and our sympathizers, and not only them, as all Bulgarian citizens are interested in us, after all, when there is guilt, who is responsible for this situation? Because, with all these things we're talking about, tosses of such long numbers and meaningless phrases, we're actually trying to cover up the blame again, and that's exactly the problem in our country, that there's always guilt, and there's no blame for that. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I, first of all, ask who of the ministers has the courage and the answer to the question, who is guilty? If we don't find him, I call on us to make a committee of inquiry, and that committee does not break up until the person responsible for this situation is found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u79	And yet to whom was your question, to which of the ministers?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u80	Find the culprit! To the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u81	Ministers gentlemen? Moving on to the next round of questions...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u82	If no one wants to answer, we move on to the highest. The Deputy Prime Minister will answer the question Who is to blame?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u83	Here you are, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Mareshki! Executives don't do investigations into who's guilty. Executive power aims to learn lessons from the past and, in order not to turn future into a mystery, focus on the present and solve problems. And that's what we do! And I hope that today we have demonstrated it with our answers, because every day from 4 April to now we are taking concrete measures and solving specific problems. In terms of guilt, however, it can be safely said that it will be established, as the District Prosecutor's Office in Haskovo and in Sofia, the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office has taken action in search of the truth and establishment of wines. So they will rule on this. However, I will address you with the following proposal, as you are for the first time in the National Assembly, to pay attention to something that is extremely important and which I would like to share with you. Waste water treatment plants are being built in Bulgaria. I wish you to make a program for drinking water treatment plants, that is, to concentrate not only on the exit but also on the entrance and that would allow really Bulgarian citizens to drink quality drinking water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u85	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health. Second question from the Political Party "Volja"? You don't. We're moving on to round two questions. The word has the MPs from the Political Party GERB. Please come in. Here you go, Mr. Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u86	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! Leading by the creed that the health, life, safety of the Bulgarian citizens is at the heart of any policy conducted with a little detour I begin, I cannot agree with the findings that were made at the beginning by the importer who pressed charges, direct accusations to former ministers. I don't think the tribune is where such accusations should be made. There are organs, and now the Prosecutor's Office knows, and other investigative institutions are doing a check on the Haskovo case and the water quality in the wells and, of course, the users themselves. I will ask a specific question to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, as some very concrete and precise conclusions were drawn in the discussion held so far and indicators on the personal components were given at the different levels of water consumed by the population. Why do I use the word "levels "? Because one is the quality of the water of the underground water sources, the volume of water in the underground water sources, the second is the quality of water in the wells, the one Mr. Deputy Prime Minister talked about. The Ministry of Environment and Water has a competence for groundwater, but nowhere have we heard from the three ministers what happens to water quality by commenting on the traces of the tap caught, that is, consumers. To the users! This is the exact and correct question that I should address to them, because I think that in a chronological incision back in time for ten years we should be aware of both we and all Bulgarian citizens, what is the quality of water of the tap, i.e. consumers in Haskovo. What I have heard from the answers to the questions asked, I do not know if it is comforting to me personally, but I think the government at the moment is not responding to the manipulations to politicize the case by, again, repeating, the case is extremely important. However, it concerns the health and life of Bulgarian citizens. If you can answer this question, has the tap been tested in the last ten years, and does the MRDP have any information about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Nankov. I give the floor to the honourable Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll be brief. Yeah, that kind of research has been done. In the last year, 587 samples were made, if memory serves. There's one for the years behind. They are in the water company, they may be required to be presented to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u89	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Second question from the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB? Is there a second question? I won't. We move on to the group of questions from the BSP Parliamentary Group for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u90	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! I have learned from the conversation so far that as early as 2015, 2016 and finally and 2017. In the beginning, we have evidence that there are increased indicators that are ultimately above the norms. And I also found out...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u91	Where is it reported?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u92	Enough protocols have been shown. I just watched one with a study that you know was done in September that it arrived at the Ministry in October and November and that it was published on the website of the Ministry of Regional Development or, more precisely, the environment and water was published on 15 January. So you, Mrs. Daritkova, because you called, and then you were the chairman of the committee. And this is where two other ministers stand against me, and the third one doesn't stand...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u93	Please don't step out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u94	Yeah, yeah, I'm following procedure. These ministers are the people who were supposed to signal that there was a problem, but they slept through it. Personally Mrs. Pavlova, Mrs. Vasileva and you. You just slept through it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u95	Mr. Kutev, I'm making a remark to you that you are using the parliamentary tribune as a political campaign. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u96	And gentlemen, the ministers, who should now be answering the question, should have initiated the procedure a long time ago, not April. Because April, some guy from the Swimming Directorate sent you a letter. And the Minister just said that, you see, the Ministry of Environment and Water didn't have the power to refer to the prosecution. No, no, you have the authority. And you, ministers, former ministers of the House, who will be future ministers, because you will most likely be reunited with the banks upstairs...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u97	Mr. Kutev, get your head in the game. You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u98	...and you, who were ministers, because you're just a little while away, all of you have the right to refer to the prosecution, and you didn't do it. So my question to you, Mr. Semerdzhiev, as Deputy Prime Minister and the person responsible for this, is: did you personally refer to the prosecution? They didn't, did you report her? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u99	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary. [[Reply by MP Daniela Daritkova.]] When the Minister answers, you will be entitled to a personal explanation, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u100	As soon as I heard about the problem, we took steps to resolve it. Days after his announcement, I found out the Haskovo DA's office had self-conceived. I didn't have to make a repeat call to the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u101	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mrs. Daritkova, come in for a personal explanation. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria: "He hasn't said anything! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u102	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let us not lower this tribune from the beginning of the functions of the Forty-fourth National Assembly to personal attacks and accusations, but look for a really global solution to the problems. You are familiar with the texts of the Constitution, according to which there is a separation of authorities. The Parliamentary Committee on Health does not conduct samples of drinking water, nor does it conduct samples of well water. It is clear what the Commission's functions are, and you have forgotten perhaps because of your absence from Parliament. [[Applause from GERB.]] But I'm asking you not to go back to the role that, I think, has already remained in history, and not to act like Georgi Dimitrov of the Leipzig Process of this tribune [[Replies: "Bravo!" and applause by GERB]] because it is much more important now that we insinuate that we are looking for a real solution to people's problems and not to accumulate a political dividend here from this tribune. [[GERB lines: "Bravo!" and applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Second issue from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u104	Thank you. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! From what has been said so far, many stories have been said, perhaps at the moment somewhere in Montenegrin they are drinking water with increased uranium content and, for example, alpha activity, and after half a year or a year we will understand that this has happened, following the example and subordination between institutions with today's debate. I'm sorry that I have to ask you, Mr. Minister, a question: when did the Ministry of Regional Development first receive information that there was a violation of the water standards for drinking water in Haskovo? And if this is known from October to the beginning of the year, what happened at the Ministry? Was there a deliberate concealment, a gathering of such information in your Ministry, or perhaps the purpose was not to excite the population before the presidential elections or before the parliamentary elections, because the Chief Health Inspector? I wouldn't tell him his name was on the list of Haskovo district? Perhaps his responsibilities are such that he, by exceeding his rights, can conceal such information during the Regional Health Inspectorate. Angel Kunchev, Mr. Tsvetanov, is his name. Yes, from your list. So let everyone here consciously assume their responsibility. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Because I don't know who's controlling...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u105	You're running out of time, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u106	...and who sanctioned the exchange of information between all the departments involved in this regulation? There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u107	Thank you. [[The speaker speaks with microphones off.]] Thank you, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u108	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u109	Here you are, Mr. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, for an answer to Mr. Genov's question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the Ministry of Regional Development, Mr. Genov, we learned from a letter from the Bulgarian State Inspector of the Republic of Bulgaria. As for the control, under the Health Act, the control is by the Chief State Health Inspector of the Republic of Bulgaria, regional health inspections and the National Centre for Radiobiology and Radiation Protection, and under the Water Act the other institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u111	Thank you, Mr. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. You have the floor for a third question from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u112	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is to the Minister of Environment and Water. Today we are commenting on the excess levels of uranium in the drinking water in the town of Haskovo, but the problem is much bigger. The problem has not been for two or three weeks, we are talking about a permanent consumption of such water by the citizens of Haskovo region. Last year the plans for management of river basins of the Republic of Bulgaria were established. During the public discussions were held meetings and consultations with representatives of municipalities, RIEW, municipal services......................................................................... At one of the meetings on 27 April in Haskovo regarding a discussion of the project, an expert at the meeting announced that for the last six years of the planned period the norms had become stricter and more often it is necessary to monitor where there is a deviation. It is said that during the period reported three times excesses have been found. I guess the red light in there didn't light up. It is even more interesting that the representative of the water and water water supply haskovo said that there is no such information.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u113	Mrs. Jeleva, concentrate on the matter. You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u114	Moreover, yesterday in his interview, the former governor of GERB said... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u115	Your time is running out, I expect the question from you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u116	...that there is no such information. My question is: what is the mechanism for informing stakeholders and the public when determining deviations from certain water monitoring indicators? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u117	Colleagues, please be quiet. Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u118	I'm graduating. And if there is one, is it respected in the period when there has been repeated recording of excess of such standards in the water? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u119	Thank you. [[National Representative Stanislav Dechev wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] Mr. Dechev, after Mrs. Kostova's reply, you will get the floor for a personal explanation. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I've already answered the question. The Ministry of Environment and Water shall publish quarterly reports that are publicly available. Every citizen of the Republic can see all results on over 200 indicators that are analyzed. The Ministry of Environment and Water once a year analyzes alpha and beta activity and natural uranium. These analyses are done at the end of the year and therefore every month of January they are made public. It is precisely because, when the sample is carried out, if it was in October, because the results are announced in January, when the quarterly reports are made, then this order was issued, for which the moment of establishment of this excess is October-November, in order to inform the competent authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u121	Thank you, Madam Minister for Environment and Water. Here's a personal explanation, Mr. Dechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u122	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the House! I expected that in the National Assembly we would talk about the substance and solve problems from now on, and we would not be an investigative body. Mrs. Zheleva, if you wanted to become one, I don't think this is the place. You could have been a prosecutor or an investigative officer. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u123	Thank you, Mr. Dechev. Moving on to the next group of questions. I give the floor to the Parliamentary Group of the United patriots. No questions asked. The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is welcome, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u124	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! My question is to the Minister of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. Dear Minister, as I have already pointed out, but once again I will repeat, on 27 April 2016 Swimming Directorate of the East-Belomorski region............................................................................................................ I would like to point out that the VAC in question has 100% state participation and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works performs the functions of a principal. In this regard, what has the water company undertaken? Is there any information in other pump stations of the water company Haskovo, to have increased levels of natural uranium and total alpha activity? Has Haskovo commissioned a study to identify the reason for the non-compliance of the quality of drinking water with the statutory requirements and has it informed RZI Haskovo in due time? If the results of the study are ready, what is the reason for the pollution of the water? Next question. Are there spare water sources if it is established for sure that there is an increase in the permissible standards in the water sources in question? I would like to conclude my question by asking you: Are all the necessary actions taken by the water service in order to protect the health and life of the people there, as well as the environment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u126	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! According to the annual activity report of the Water and Water Agency, in 2016 the company has a water supply permit for the municipalities of Haskovo, Harmanli, Svilengrad, Simeonovgrad, Lyubimets, Madzharovo, Ivaylovgrad, Stambolovo and Mineral Baths issued by the Ministry of Environment and Water. Together with the Regional Health Inspectorate Haskovo, the company has developed, as I mentioned in a previous question, a Programme for monitoring the quality of drinking water according to the requirements of Ordinance No 9 on water qualities intended for drinking domestic purposes. I also answered a question before each year over 500 samples are taken per year. There are no worrying samples from the Water and Water from Haskovo in the 2016 report. Regarding the question of what has been done so far, the Water and Canal Haskovo has fulfilled all the RZI regulations, as well as orders, carried out additional temporary intercepts, even whole routes, so that there is no danger to the population about health risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u127	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Second question from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Come in, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This time, my question is to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health, since I did not receive no satisfaction, and I did not get an answer to my question what measures have been taken after I pointed out that on 27 April 2016 the Basin Directorate of the East-Belomorski Region. My question is: then notification of what actions have been taken by the relevant competent authorities and institutions in order to protect the health and life of people and the environment? What was the effect afterwards? Let's not just focus on the last few months. Let's see exactly what the reason is, what exactly is being taken, because we all have to do this. I expect to hear from you what action has been taken, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u130	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Chakarov, before answering your question specifically, I would like to say that we, the three offices that are currently presented to you, refer the data from water research to various regulations............................................................................................................................................... A distinction must be made between the reports of the various departments regarding what they are examining and how they make their assessments. As far as the specific question is concerned. On 27 April 2016, data from the Swimming Directorate of Plovdiv were released at such a general meeting. It is assumed that someone from the RZI was present, but I cannot state his name. The fact is, however, that there are then actions taken by RZI - Haskovo. I quoted them in my original exhibition. Dr. Dimitrova, Director of RZI Haskovo, sent on purpose a letter to the Director of the Water and Water and pointed out to him that he should carry out periodic monitoring on radiological indicators of drinking water in specific areas which I showed as a list and specific identification of deviations in order to be able to apply these twice reduced levels of natural uranium content in the water to examine the dynamics in its content. As a result, the water supply has responded adequately and started such research. The latest study, which it is doing and which does not signal to us yet, is on 16 March 2017, when on their own initiative they take water from pipe wells and send it as a private study to the National Centre for Radiobiology and Radiation Protection. As a result, the data obtained on 11 April 2017 were from the research ordered by the Water and Water and not from the research of the Swimming Directorate. We took into account both the results of the Swimming Directorate, from which we received data on April 4th, and those of the Water and Canal Haskovo, a week later, which had final results. However, we started our own research on 4 and 5 April, as a result of which we verified the data coming from two different sources. Once again, we will probably get the final data from the National Centre for Radiobiology and Radiation Protection today, and then, as early as next week, we will be able to give specific prescriptions and specific information about what risks there are, whether there are any risks and what needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u131	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. A question from the DPS Parliamentary Group? I won't. We move on to questions from the political party's parliamentary group. No questions asked. Honourable Members, I give the floor for respect to each of the parliamentary groups. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u132	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! There were three important questions in this debate. The first was: is there information hidden and is anyone guilty? In general, the debate over the last two hours has focused precisely on this topic. Colleagues have tried to turn the National Assembly's stand into a People's Court. They didn't work out, somehow. I believe that there are institutions in this country that will come to the truth, and if there is guilt, they will be punished. The second important question is: where did this uranium come from? And I'm a MP from Haskovo. I've lived in Haskovo all my life. I'm also interested in this subject. The truth is that the uranium mining in Bulgaria began in 1946 in the area of the city of Bukhovo near Sofia. Since 1956 it has been held by a company called "Red Metals." During the period 1946 - 1990, the country ranked fourth in Europe on the quantities of uranium harvested and on proven stocks. During the period 1958, two plants for processing and manufacturing of uranium-based uranium concentrate with an average uranium content of 82% and high physiochemical parameters were also built. Until 1993, a total of 42 fields were developed through conventional underground mining, 16 through a drilling hearing. The total production for the period 1946 - 1992 was estimated at 21 thousand tonnes of uranium. Interestingly, although in 1992 there was a decision of the Council of Ministers that stopped uranium mining and banned this activity in Bulgaria, twice this topic was put at a debate before the Bulgarian society once in 2007, and once in 2014, with reasons that there was a demand and demands of international companies for access, to come back to the Bulgarian market and to develop our fields again. The truth is that there is currently a revival of nuclear energy. I will quote a colleague here, his words just two years ago: And to conclude that it can really have a positive effect on the Bulgarian economy from this. It's a good thing it didn't happen either in 2007 or in 2014. The third topic, which is most important and which I think should be the subject of this debate, is what can be done from now on, so that there is no risk to people's lives and health, is there not even a doubt, because, as we have heard from the three ministers of ministers, they said that there is no clear evidence and are rather convinced that there is no risk to people's health? They're waiting for final results. It's been heard that we don't have research on the tap, we have research on a number of drillings of 3,7 out of 30, but the water on the tap is mixed, both from drillings that by the new criteria have increased amounts of uranium and other drillings where there are no heavy metals. The important question is: what is the quality of water on the tap? We have no compelling evidence. What we've heard is that people have nothing to worry about. However, there is something that needs to be done as quickly as possible. The director of the water supply of Haskovo wrote it: "What needs to be done is to resolve the situation with Haskovo's water supply firmly once and for all, excluding the drillings in question, which we doubt have high levels of uranium, are isolated, shut down and new drilling is made. In this regard, the Director of the Water and Water Department Haskovo has proposed a duplication of four wells with 40 liters of expected water flow rate. lv.; replacement of existing plumbing with a new one to carry out additional water quantities of 1735 m. lv.; duplication of one pipe well with an estimated flow rate of about 10 litres with a value of about 130 thousand. lv.; a duplication of three pipe wells Nos 3, 5 and 7 in the water supply zone area, an eastern zone; an estimated flow rate of about ten liters per second with an indicative value of about 400 thousand. lv. and restoration of a failed section of a pressure water supply leading to a reservoir of 4,000 cubic feet. m. The plumbing has an F 400 worth of about 200 thousand. lv. What needs to be done urgently is the Council of Ministers, and as an MP from Haskovo, I call on my fellow ministers to initiate a decree of the Council of Ministers to release the questions of about 2 million. lv. of Haskovo municipality, in order to begin the fastest construction of these new drillings, the restoration of the plumbing, so that the problem in Haskovo, which I read to you, is 1946. Let us hope that it is only in Haskovo, and not in all the other 46 places where there were similar mines, to be resolved as quickly as possible. I call on and urge fellow ministers who are here to initiate a decree by the Council of Ministers as early as next Wednesday to grant Haskovo 2 million to the municipality. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u133	Mr. Dobrev, make your way to completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u134	I also call on my colleagues from the BSP to Bulgaria, as the office is ultimately elected by the President, who is with your support, to participate in this initiative...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u135	Mr. Dobrev, get to the finish line!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u136	Thank you, I'm done. ...and to demand a decree to the caretaker government as early as next Wednesday for the release of the 2 million in question. lv. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u137	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. For attitude the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! What happened today in the Chamber was everything, but not a debate. What kind of work have we done? What question did we decide today? None. We talked for two hours. The result is none. What did those responsible for the hearing understand and not just in Haskovo? They figured out a few things: there's an excess of uranium standards in the water, but it's not dangerous. It's not dangerous, but the water is shut down and it shouldn't be used. The effect on the health of the people is unknown. We'll figure it out in three or four months if we have to do that test. We don't know what's causing the uranium mines, and we'll see if we can ever find the cause. Meanwhile, while our discussion was ongoing, information came from Varna about the same problem in Sadovo and Avren. You have protocols for this work in the ministries. The ministers are addressed, as of 11 November 2016 they are there and until now some findings and checks are waiting. How many months? Four. There must be other places like this in Bulgaria?! Today, honourable Members, we left on the established mermaid of the National Assembly's work, many fairy tales, without any content, without result and without a solution for those who sent us here. In our opinion, we need to resolve three issues. First of all, where in the whole country is there such a problem? Who should control the preservation and monitoring of uranium mines? Urgently ensure the health of people. Not in three or four months. Urgent and now! And the biggest question: are we ever going to put the question of political responsibility here frankly and truly, fellow Members? We know that there is a separation of authorities and we know that the prosecution and court will rule on criminal liability, but who will bear political responsibility? The office today covered the tracks of the previous government. [[(Voices from GERB: "Eee! ") Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.)]] The government of Boyko Borisov, Ministers Moskov, Ivelina Vassileva and Lilyana Pavlova will bear political responsibility for their silence for six months and for the reflection of this silence on the health of the Bulgarian people? [[Heckling]] It is not criminal, it is political because this is a political body. We will not allow you and the forty-four to be impersonal, as was the forty-third. In this Parliament, the real issues of society will be raised and the solutions of the problems of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria will be sought. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Therefore, since this was not a debate, it was an imitation, it was a sweeping of the tracks by the office office for Boyko Borisov's office, we will not leave that behind and immediately after the meeting we submit the signatures for a special committee of inquiry that will continue to deal with the issue, but not only in Haskovo. All over Bulgaria to identify the cases, to propose the measures for the solution, to propose the legislative changes in order to end this attitude towards the Bulgarian people, including the attitude of the Bulgarian Parliament. Here, colleagues, on our part, you will have an objective, analytical, real proposal for a solution to the problems, but you will also have the truth in your eyes and you will bear political responsibility not only for your previous cabinet but also for your future. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. I give the floor to the Parliamentary Group of the United patriots. Mr. Stanilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u140	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable ministers, I have not received an answer to my question. Madam Minister of Environment and Water transferred the issue to the Economic Ministry, but it does not matter. It's okay. I am pleased that the MP from the winning party raised the real question. The real question! By the way, the beginning of uranium production in Bulgaria is 1939, when the Reich began using the mine in Eleshnitsa for the future German nuclear bomb that never took place. Then only this uranium field in Europe was known, and so they exploited it. But whatever. In the Forty-second National Assembly, the Parliamentary Group of Ataka, now in the composition of the United Patriarchs, submitted a draft resolution for the restoration of uranium production in Bulgaria as a state task. If that had happened, these uranium mines would now be controlled and would not have such a situation. I think we should go into depth and remove the causes, not deal with the results, which, as you can see, does not get a solution, but receives only suggestions. With this draft decision that the National Assembly voted, and then the government did nothing, I submitted to the National Assembly such a thick folder [[shows fingers the thickness of the folder from the stands]] , with all estimates of five geologist engineers of uranium concentrate production. In 1993 uranium production in Bulgaria was closed under the pressure of competition. That was the only reason. The evidence in this folder of these experts from the highest level of geologists of the so-called Unity was that there is no danger to the environment that uranium production is pure, that the price of uranium is very high and if funds are put into this production after two or three years of exploitation these funds return and start the profit that is somewhere in the range of 15-20 million. the dollar per year in the state budget. To this no one paid attention, no one said anything from the stand, except Delyan Dobrev, who took it, of course, according to the principle of neoliberal economy to private investors. The State is the only one who can restore this production as a whole, control it and be responsible for everything. It may therefore sound exotic to you, but the global solution to this issue is precisely that, and it goes even further................. just to get our country back. To have a country, and then you won't get that kind of thing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u141	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. I give the floor to the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u142	Dear Madam President, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It appears from the hearing that certain actions and measures have been taken by the various competent authorities, the various departments. I would like to thank Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, for giving us the information that has been taken. But let us answer the question, are they fully effective and the objective achieved in a timely manner to respond to the situation? Unfortunately, the answer cannot be categorically convincing and does not only refer to the previous few months, I am referring only to the time of action of the office. It is evident that the problem dates, at least officially, from the annual environmental reports of RIEW Haskovo. It is good, Mrs. Kostova, that the Bassaenova Directorate-General is reacting April of the previous year, but it is also clear that the relevant competent authorities have not acted entirely in view of their powers and have not fully committed themselves to this problem so that it can be resolved. Dr. Semerdzhiev, thank you for the correct information you provided about RZI's actions after April of the previous year. It is obvious that August has had a meeting at which all this should be discussed and absolutely imperative that the appropriate measures and actions are taken in order to prevent the situation that we are currently witnessing. From what has been said here, it is definitely clear that there must be much better coordination between the relevant competent authorities. Dr. Semerdzhiev, there can be no different indicators and different tests according to the relevant regulations. The tests should be unified. In this regard, if a working group needs to be established immediately between the different ministries, which will unify the approach. So we must be as correct and objective as possible to all our fellow citizens, to us, so a priority must be to protect the health and life of all of us and the environment. The next aspect is that there are no representatives of the Ministry of Economy and Energy here today, the principal is the Ministry of Energy, it is necessary to make a very detailed, detailed review of the state of all uranium mines that have been exploited in previous years. It must be seen how they are recultivated, what their condition is, whether there is any causal link with regard to water pollution and, if any, all measures and actions should be taken as soon as possible to remove it. We would have proposed, on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group, that we welcome the idea of making an active monitoring, in the first place, of all drinking water throughout the country, to be properly informed in the public and in the various settlements that there is no such risk, and where there is such risk, it is necessary to take appropriate measures and actions. So there's more to be done. In this respect, we also express our readiness for legislative initiatives to participate in this process so that the life and health of all of us in Bulgaria can be protected in the most proper and adequate way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u143	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. I give the floor to the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u144	Dear Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! Obviously, it will be the Parliamentary Group that will raise the ball, I do not know whether because of the lack of the House as well as at the moment, but I will just remind that somewhere about half an hour ago in my previous speech I put very sharply this particular question: who will actually bear the political responsibility. That's when I asked the question about this Committee of Investigation, which I then heard Mrs. Ninova confirmed that she would be in a hurry to submit. I'm glad we have followers. The idea is not only to decide who should be responsible at the moment. The idea is to give a clear signal that when there is guilt, there must be responsibility. We are not going to let the problems be swept away and pushed into timeless two or three months forward, backwards and finally all get swept away and no responsibility, because we are signaling everyone else who is doing violations that this is encouraged by the legislator and the government. In this National Assembly, because a government will soon have to be made, we will have to resolve the issue of income, with security, obviously a matter which will be forgotten, which is very long put by some of the political forces and, in order to signal that this will not be allowed to remain in the nothingness, we should ask for example: who is responsible for both the nuclear power and the health problems? We will also need to see the revenue part of the budget, we also need to raise the issue of Bulgaria's gold. Lately, no one has said anything about Bulgaria's gold. If in the gold of Bulgaria, in the energy of Bulgaria, in the mines of Bulgaria, in all our goods disappear the billions needed to increase the pensions of Bulgarian citizens, to increase the incomes of Bulgarian teachers, policemen and doctors, we from the Political Party will be the ones who will not allow the light to go out and the Bulgarian budget to be robbed again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u145	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. [[Applause from DG.]] That concludes the hearing procedure for ministers. I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health, the Minister of Environment and Water and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works for participating in the hearing. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u146	We will continue the meeting, honourable Members of the National Assembly, with a hearing of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Ognian Gerdjikov regarding the personnel changes in the management of the caretaker government. You already know the rules of procedure. Please come in for the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u147	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 48, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, which we apply to the organization and activities of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that the hearing and the debates on it be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. The questions we have put to the office prime minister are of public importance and are of serious interest. Every Bulgarian citizen should have the opportunity to get acquainted and adopt the debate on this hearing directly and directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u148	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Please vote. Vote 141 MPs: 137, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please turn on the cameras and microphones. The opinion of the importers of the proposal for a hearing will introduce you to the People's Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov. You have the floor, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u149	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Prime Minister, the reason for this hearing is all that has happened in the last three months. We have all witnessed that, for the most part, the Prime Minister and the relevant representatives of ministers were fulfilling the political messages that were announced by our main political opponents and BSP. We are all witnessing the way the presidential elections were held. There was no political force then to challenge the elections held or to say that there were any significant violations. Then, on 27 January, when President Radev appointed the office, the first job you took was to release, at least in the first stage, 14 district managers on 8 February 2017. The reasons you had set out were that there were signals of irregularities against them, which led to their release. After that, however, you continued with the corresponding dismissals, the appointments under a vague criterion, which definitely created the feeling that you have other objectives and not the main part of the Constitution... to hold fair and transparent elections and to concentrate only on this. Our question to you is: why did you allow this to happen, and why are dismissals being carried out at this time, appointments of people who in no way contribute to optimising the work of the public administration? Moreover, we have signals that legislative activity is currently under way at the legislative level for regulations and regulations to be dealt with in the last meetings of the Council of Ministers, which will definitely cause trouble and quite a bit of chaos in administration and in all these institutions that need to continue their work. From this point of view, we want to call you to stop these adventures, because this will create a problem for the next legitimately elected government of the Forty-fourth Parliament. I believe that at the moment we have much more important goals - this is our preparation for the Presidency, and we also have extremely serious commitments to legislative activity that really optimizes the activities of all institutions, but not in the way that you do it - by changing the legislation and, of course, searching for forms and ways, even in some cases for lobbying interests. At least what's being said is going into public space. Thank you, Prime Minister, for having responded to the invitation and I am convinced that with what you said in the couloirs that you have been preparing all night, you will actually be able to respond to us very meaningfully and adequately for all these dismissals that you have made and all these structural changes that you have implemented in some of the activities of the institutions and agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Dear Prime Minister, you have the floor to inform the National Assembly on the issues raised within 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u151	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Within the Thirty-nineth Parliament, I was the one who was in charge of parliamentary control, and for a moment I could not assume that there would come a time when I would be controlled. [[Radio.]] I would therefore like to address the honourable Members of Parliament: keep it in mind that you may also be affected. [[Laughter]] As for today's hearing, less than 24 hours ago I learned about this hearing and only my great respect for the institution of the National Assembly mobilizes me and my team to prepare this response. Now get to the point. I present to you the personnel changes made by the office. I hope that not a small part of them will be assessed positively by the new government. In the administration of the Council of Ministers, I have not committed a single dismissal, not a single shift. By decision of the government 22 MPs were released. Excuse me, district governors. [[(Noise and lines. (Laughter)]] The cabinet can't fire MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u152	Fortunately. [[(Radio.) (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u153	I would like to draw attention to that article. 19th para. 2 of the Administration Act enables the appointing authority of the Council of Ministers to terminate the appointment with the district governors without notice, at his discretion. By my order they were released, as it became clear, 22 of the district governors and 27 of the deputy governors and were appointed accordingly. I would like to point out that this is not new. Sofianski's office dismissed everyone, and Mr. Bliznashki's office released 17 so this is something that exists in our parliamentary practice. The following personnel changes were made by my order: I appointed Vice-President of the State Agency "Archives" on a proposal from the Chair of the Agency. I appointed a Vice-President of the State Agency to close the child on a proposal from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. I released the Chairman of the Management Board of the Industrial Academy and appointed a new one on a proposal from the Minister of Agriculture and Food. I released the Director of the National Centre for the Preparation and Conduct of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018 because of his appointment as Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs and appointed a temporary acting member. These are my personnel changes. Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Minister of Health has made personnel changes to the Medical Audit Executive Agency (Medician Audit) due to the completion of the pension age of the Director and the Center for Child Treatment (Fund) due to the resignation of the Director. Out of the forty-two medical establishments, single commercial companies, there have been personnel changes in ten with the following motives................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For all medical establishments where there are changes of executive directors, competitions for selection of new ones are announced. There were competitions for the directors of the Pirogov, St. Ivan Rilski and the National Specialized Hospital for Physics Therapy and Rehabilitation Sofia. The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence have implemented the following personnel changes: the board of directors of the "Terem" has been replaced, four were released, four newly appointed and one reassigned because of weak economic performance and poor governance, which led to the decapitalisation of five of the six companies. In "Provide and trade" Ltd. and "Mob" Ltd., whatever that means. [[GRUNTING IN GERB]] , are replaced managers due to poor financial performance and found poor management practices. The Managing Director has been replaced by the Internship Service Executive Director due to a poor financial situation. The Director and Deputy Director have been released from the Institute of Defence because of proven violations in the preparation of technical specifications and tactical technical assignments of the investment projects for the battle engines of the Land Forces and for a multifunctional fighter of the Air Force. A permanent Secretary of Defence has been appointed for the term of office due to the expiry of the previous term. The Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds has only a five-person advisory team. Three of them are from the pre-acting administration. In the portfolio of Deputy Prime Minister for the preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency were made changes only on the board of directors of the National Palace of Culture, leaving the Executive Director. The Minister of Interior has suspended 263 cases in total, of which 11 persons in senior positions, one because of disciplinary punishment, one by decree of the President and nine by virtue of an acquired right to a pension or of their own will. A total of 673 employees were appointed, of which 409 in the employment of temporary employment contracts until 30 April this year of the office of In the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior, the exception of Plovdiv, Varna, Burgas and Haskovo, there is no position of Vice-President. The department heads are performing these functions. The Minister of Finance appointed 21 officials in the Ministry's administration, of which 15 civil servants and six employees in the political cabinet to the Minister. Of the civil servants seven were appointed on the basis of a competition, six were transferred to a public service by another administration and two were appointed to replace an absent official. A new member of the Bulgarian Development Bank was appointed to the position of Kiril Ananiev, who became Minister of Finance, as is known. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy has not carried out shifts of senior officials, no changes have been made to the management of the Executive Agency and the Ministry. 12 competition procedures for the appointment of civil servants are finalized. The Director of the Directorate of Labour Inspectorate Vidin has been released in the administration of the Executive Agency. The employee has received the lowest estimate in the annual assessment of a five. Four directors are released in the administration of the Agency for Social Assistance on the basis of the Civil Service Act. The administration of the Employment Agency employs seven staff members of the Head Office of the Employment Agency. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works has not made changes at management levels in the Ministry. There have been personnel changes in secondary officers. A new member of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency has been appointed after the incident in Echemishka. The member of the post has been in a long hospital since before the appointment to this day. A new executive director of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadaster has been appointed due to doubts of the existence of a conflict of interest of the former head of the department. The Commission for the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest has initiated proceedings against it initiated by the former Minister. At the level of management bodies of commercial companies in the system of MRB were appointed to the management bodies of three commercial companies with more than 50 per cent state participation in capital: in the Management Board "Strength and recovery" Change has been made in the controls. A new member of the Board of Directors is also appointed in connection with an incident in the tunnel. The head of staff is relieved of his duties. Due to established management gaps, poor financial results and multiple signals for poor management are released the managers of the Sofia region, and the water and water district - Dobrich. The Minister of Education and Science has not performed shifts of management officers in the Ministry. The position of Head Secretary was vacant, a contest was announced and the winner was appointed, and a new member of the Board of Directors was appointed to the Student Chairs and dormitory company because of the application to leave the previous one.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u154	Excuse me, Prime Minister. Colleagues, if you agree to give more time, since the list is long so we can listen to it? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u155	There are rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u156	Do you mind, or what? [[GERB lines: "No. "]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u157	You broke the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u158	No, no, go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u159	If there is an agreement, to proceed with the information, Prime Minister-
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u160	I don't mind. The ten minutes are up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u161	You will then have unlimited time during the questions. If you want, then go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u162	I agree.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u163	Okay, thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Let's move on to the questions. Each parliamentary group shall be entitled to two questions from two minutes each. We start with the first round of the Political Party GERB. The People's Representative Stanislav Dechev has the floor. You have two minutes to ask.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u164	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister! I was the district manager of Haskovo District and was released on 8 February along with the so-called first group of regional managers, which you released on 8 February. Of course, by law, you have the right to release the district governors without notice, but the motive that was used, insulted not only the district governors, but also the entire administrations, destroyed an authority that held the previous elections, which President Radev himself said were fair. Wasn't it more moral to go out now and apologize for those layoffs? [[Applause from GERB]] Since the signals we have requested that have arrived at you have not been answered or have most been answered that there are none? As district manager, may I ask: is there such a signal against me and can you tell me that? [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u165	Thank you, dear Mr. Dechev. Prime Minister, come in for an answer. From now on, for all answers you have unlimited time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u166	I won't abuse you. As for the analogy with the presidential elections, it is not entirely correct because the presidential elections have a completely different political charge. You all know perfectly well that parliamentary elections have a different charge, and this year they have particularly sharpened the political situation because of the leveled forces of the two main political forces. [[Voices "Eeeee!" by GERB.]] These were the studies to the last, please. I had the polls and I could not know that there would be such a serious difference between GERB and BSP. [[Laughter and applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u167	Please be quiet in this room, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u168	As for the dismissal of the district governor of Haskovo, he said wonderfully that he was in the prerogatives of the Council of Ministers to do so. If I owe you an apology, then I owe you for the motives that I expressed verbally improperly. I really owe you an apology for that. [[Applause from GERB]] and to the other regional governors. That's my excuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u169	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. A question from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines.]] Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u170	Mr. Gerdjikov, how many times have you had talks with Mr. Boyko Borisov in advance? [[Shouts: "Eee!" by PG GERB. Noise and lines.]] In this regard, as a sub-question, on 14 March 2017 you receive SMS from Mr. Borisov, then your media advisor Ivan Garelov was fired. The question is not what are your motives for his dismissal, but what exactly did this text say? Thank you. [[(Applause and cheering from BG to BSP for Bulgaria:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u171	You have the floor, Prime Minister. I do not know how confidential this information is.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u172	I've had conversations with Mr. Borisov, but I'm sorry, I don't keep a statistic. Conversations are not much, but such conversations are useful and necessary anyway. Now I can say that it is probably already known that I invited Mr. Borisov along with experts to the National Assembly on Monday to discuss the issues with. So these are things that are perfectly normal to happen. That's what I've been doing since the election. Before the elections, I have not spoken and have not accepted any leader of a political party. [[Applause from AG of GERB and OP.]] After the elections, however, I think this is quite normal in view of the continuity that should be at the heart of the country's governance. As far as these texts are concerned, I've already expressed in interviews publicly and more about SMS questions and I'm not answering them. [[(SCREAMS:) Aah! Single applause.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u173	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. From the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs? Mr. Emil Dimitrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u174	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since we did not finish the issue of dismissals and appointments, but we have already started with the questions between the parties and the Prime Minister, my question to him is: How many conversations have you had with Mrs Cornelia Ninova and as a result of these talks how many people have been fired? [[Radio and applause by GERB.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u175	Here you are, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u176	I have to say I'm sorry, but I haven't had a single conversation with Mrs Cornelia Ninova. [[(Applause and cheering: Bravo, bravo!]] There is therefore no way that, as a result of unbeated conversation, there is an appointment and dismissal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u177	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. From the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? No questions asked. From the Parliamentary Group of Wills? Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u178	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mr. Prime Minister! If there was a violation, it's only natural that there was a dismissal. So if that was the practice, we should all welcome it. God forbid she was. However, I have a very reverse question: If indeed your government's practice was such, were there any who had committed violations but had not been fired and an umbrella was crucified on them? I'm just gonna open up a little bit more. For example, were there any who were also the former Minister of Health saying that directors of medical institutions have abused and illegally imported money into the bankrupt later on CCB and thus have harmed both the health institution and the doctors working in it, whether there are those who are valedictors in these abuses and they have been spared from the previous cabinet and at the moment of your cabinet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u179	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Prime Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u180	Thank you. Dear Mr. Mareshki, it is known that Minister Ilko Semerdzhiev is too active and was not afraid to make serious changes. So I'm pretty sure he wouldn't have closed his eyes if he noticed serious data and signals violations and didn't react. I have no information that there was any umbrella from our government, including in the field of healthcare. No such signals have ever come to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u181	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Moving on to the second round of questions. From the Parliamentary Group of GERB "The People's Representative Valentin Radev." Here you go, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u182	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister! I will start with a quote, not yours: The main goal of the caretaker government is to hold fair elections and be politically neutral. Instead, however, a purge is being made in the public administration. The most fragile is the change of district governors, there's a number here. There's been an invasion of power through the back door. This is a quote from Mrs. Maya Manolova, BSP, now Ombudsman, a month and a half before the elections. I'm saying this because you've already mentioned the district governors. Nobody asked back then. Now you've outdone it, I understand that the number is now 80%, they've fired about 60% of the district governors. You said something about it. No one, however, then in 2014, Mr. Prime Minister, asked why the senior professional heads of the departments were fired, and the power offices. Just because there were no firings like that. You know, now I'm firing Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior, of the Inspectorate. The same in the Ministry of Defense. Including the permanent secretary. [[Reply of MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] I'm not talking about directorates. Even yesterday there's a case, maybe you'll read the transcripts and it'll be clear, they're continuing with these dismissals. [[Relations of MP Mustafa Karadayi.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u183	Please don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u184	No one then asked why you fired managers and executives of commercial companies. You said in the reference some of them simply because there was no such mass dismissal back then. For example, in the Ministry of Defense, everyone was fired, you mentioned some of them. Everyone! Check it out! There's not a single CEO and manager of commercial companies that hasn't been replaced.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u185	Twenty seconds!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u186	Why is this done? The same was done in the other ministries, you said some of the numbers. My question to you, Prime Minister, because I did not hear clearly is: what logic and what motives have you and your ministers led in making these large-scale personnel changes, for which we have a written declaration not to do so and asked you to do so. You didn't even consider it when we took power, and we were already in power, and we still asked you not to do it, including the president.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u187	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u188	I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. And the other one. Maybe you were doing someone else's will! Maybe to other parties, not one. Or maybe the president's. You're an honest man, and you've already mentioned...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u189	Thank you, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u190	...that this has happened to you and you reported to one of the parliament meetings. [[Noise and lines.]] Maybe when we hear the background check, it'll be clear. The reference, yes, I asked. [[Relations of MP Mustafa Karadayi.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u191	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Prime Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u192	I've submitted the reference, so that I don't give you the numbers of the fired and appointed, I could always provide them. They will be made available to the public after 2 May 2017. For each ministry, for all commercial companies, who were fired and appointed. I started my show, but I couldn't finish the order of ten minutes. It really looks like a lot of foot-and-mouth changes. I suppose some of them may not be fully justified. It's hard for me to judge, because every minister does that in his office. But anyway, all the ministers who made such changes had their motives. They had their arguments and these arguments it is nice to hear them from the source, from the ministers themselves who made these changes. It is not possible for me to know in 20 ministries, in so many offices, commercial companies, what are the specific reasons and reasons for these personnel shifts. So I'm sorry that I can't give you more specific answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u193	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. The parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria. Welcome, Mr. Boychev. People's representative Zhelyo Boychev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From the information that the minister of service has put into my mind, the analogy with the previous government of the service of Bliznashki, which, with a huge revolutionary pathos and effort, carried out a large purge in the state government. As Gemini confessed to over 218 fired...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u195	The questions are addressed to the current prime minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u196	...and the facts talked about more than twice as much. I'm making an introduction to the matter, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u197	Make sure you fit in at the right time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u198	But the facts told me they were in a hell of a lot more fired. In essence the field of the cabinet Borisov was cleared. Dear Mr. Gerdjikov, I would like to remind you that when you were appointed prime minister in society there were huge expectations for you, for your government, a huge hope that a real change will be made in the way of the executive.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u199	Why did people want a change?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u200	Don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u201	Unfortunately, from what you have presented and as a result of the cabinet's activities, these expectations have remained lied to. So my question to you is, did you have any intention, desire to make certain personnel changes, personal appointments, or did someone put pressure on you, or did he stop you from doing so? And if so, please tell me where this pressure came from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u202	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Prime Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u203	Dear Mr. Boychev, at the beginning of my exhibition I said that I did not fire any minister from the entire administration, Secretary General, Director of Directorates, Head of Departments. This shows that my understanding is not to fire people on their own, and that's why I didn't do it. On the ground, however, such changes appear to be necessary. No pressure has been put on me for appointments or dismissals! That's all I can say. From neither direction nor left nor right nor center.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u204	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. From the group of the United Patriarchs, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u205	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable Members! So far, we've been talking about dismissals, and now I'm gonna ask a question about appointments. On 29 April there is a meeting of the Council of Europe and Mr Tusk will give it the rules to apply for European agencies. So my question is: because only Bulgaria, Cyprus and Croatia do not have European agencies on their territory, will you raise a question about the agencies that will remain after the United Kingdom leaves the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u206	Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy. Prime Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u207	Thank you, for the question, it's really up to date. By the end of the month Bulgaria could apply for some of the two exempted agencies that were in Britain. These are the Medicines Agency, one of them, the other one I can't tell you right now who she was, and there are 26 countries applying to the Medicines Agency anyway. The chances of Bulgaria are small, so there is an idea to apply together with Romania, with the seat divided by Ruse "Bucurest" where the distance is only 60 km and thus the chances of Bulgaria to some minimum degree increase. And this will probably be the position together, we are currently in negotiations with the Romanian government. But there, however, this agency is too tasty, I would say, for European countries. Our chances are actually slim, but that doesn't mean we have to be passive. In the same way we will show activity with regard to the other agency.. We will apply for its seat to be in Bulgaria. I don't know if we're gonna make it, but we're gonna have to do it, and we're gonna do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u208	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. From the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? I won't. Mr. Mareshki, come in from the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u209	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mr. Prime Minister! On March 26th, early parliamentary elections were held and several party formations were dismissed at the will of the Bulgarian voter. It has already been almost a month and, according to our information, they continue to illegally use state property for their offices. What measures have you taken to restore justice and protect the state's interest, and what time do you think this issue will be resolved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u210	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. The matter is outside the subject of the hearing, but if you wish to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u211	Dear Mr. Mareshki, a few days ago I had a meeting with the district governor of Sofia on this particular issue. She's already taken measures, she's prepared the notification letters, they've even been received for the release of the UDF and DSB plants, I think they were about that time. Perhaps by today, the other parties and coalitions, which do not meet the legal requirements to maintain offices, probably, perhaps, these days have already received or will receive such notice for the release of these properties. Thank you. PRESENTER DIMITER VOICE: Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Each parliamentary group shall have five minutes to express its views on the questions presented to you by the Prime Minister. From the group of GERB Mr. Tsvetanov, come in. You have five minutes to deal with what you hear.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u212	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister! In general, you have not answered specifically the questions asked by the GERB Parliamentary Group, and what I can find today is that you have actually created conditions for a possible future sabotage of a government that will have a horizon of four years. [[Woman cheering from GERB.]] Because we cannot explain it to the Bulgarian citizens that within three months you have made as many dismissals as perhaps there is no Prime Minister of Bulgaria to whom so many dismissals have been carried out in his office. [[Reply and applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u213	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u214	What did you impose and what does it have to do with election change of boards, change of agencies? Understand this in no way responds to some suggestions that are being made, such as false news for bad financial indicators. The financial shown in not a small part of these enterprises were much better than the times 2013 - 2014. This was proved by the annual accounts and the revenues of their budgets, where good indicators were reported. That is why the government of Prime Minister Borisov 2 reported good indicators. Even the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Radev on a visit to Germany said that Bulgaria is a safe country, Bulgaria has been managed for the past two years very seriously and has therefore achieved the economic growth of 3.5, which allows for future investments in our country. Prime Minister, you said you had nothing to do with firing. That means someone else was ordering the ministers to make the dismissals. Someone needs to come out and tell us who is politically responsible for these dismissals and everything that happened in the public sector. Mr. Gerdjikov, our country needs stability, economic growth, as Borisov's government showed in 2016. We wanted to continue on the same path, and you and your ministers and those who ordered your ministers wanted to divert us from the only possible path. This is what we know is that it was a topic and a basic message of the BSP to move our country in another direction. However, we know today that we are part of a strong and united Europe. What has been done as an additional question by colleagues from the United patriots about the possibility of moving the agency from Britain to the Member States, but at present the government has not taken any action in these three months, no action to show that we want the agency to be in Bulgaria. Just to say that at present there are 12 countries that have expressed their desire. On April 27th, in all likelihood, the Council will consider the issue, but I do not know who will represent our country. "Whether you or President Radev. This topic will be part of the agenda. At present we have no position which shows that the caretaker government has dealt only with the service of BSP, and you are only interested in sociological research to see that there is equality between BSP and GERB. Such equality never existed! [[Applause from GERB.]] GERB showed that it is a party that governs, which leaves money in the treasury, not a party that plunders and which destroys the Bulgarian citizens. We are a party to real policies and visible results [[Applause from GERB]] , not a party that launches populist speeches and sticks to them to play with people's fears. We stand before the voters and earn their trust because we promise what we can deliver. The sooner this government terminates its powers, the better for the state so that we can actually return to this economic growth, and this forecast [[Applause from GERB]] Who can give us more self-esteem, more identity! As far as phone calls are concerned, I suppose the questions should be asked to the ministers, since you don't know about the dismissals. Who ordered them to fire and order to the detriment of the state? Political party GERB, coalition government of GERB and United patriots will make a revision of appointments and justice will prevail [[Applause from GERB]] , to ensure stability and the country is not subjected to sabotage by such actions for such a short period of three months. Thank you. [[Extremely and violent applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u215	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. On behalf of the BSP Parliamentary Group for Bulgaria, the Chairman of the group, the People's Representative Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u216	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm afraid this is the second time today that we have disappointed those who are watching and listening to us because we are on a direct show: once with the water debate and the second time with this one today. It is true that we have asked specific questions to Prime Minister Gerdjikov, but today there is a much bigger question. It is for the constitutional place of the caretaker government in the Republic of Bulgaria. Perhaps the third or fourth month in the BSP explain normal, which I do not know why you, the society, some speakers in society consider abnormal, and it is this: neither the Constitution nor the laws of the country nor the morals allow a political party, even if it has supported and raised the president, to interfere with his choice of office. That's normal! We've been explaining ourselves for three months why that's true. What does that show, colleagues? It shows how messed up the political thinking of the transition is, showing what the behind-the-scenes of the transition is.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u217	It shows that people don't trust you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u218	It is normally considered that a political party should tell the ministers what to do and what not to do is the backstage and the abnormal, which we will always fight against. We will not allow you to replace the BSP with some fault of the office because there will be principles, transparency and morality in this country and we will defend them. It's written in the Constitution what the office can do. None of the political forces have the right to interfere with this matter. Thank you, Mr. Gerdjikov, for being correct to say that we have never met or talked to each other on any subject, even less than the competence of the office. Because I am not Boyko Borisov! [[Loud applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I would not, either by texting or by meeting you or by calling you, I would never have allowed myself political interference in the decisions of the office on which the Constitution has set a certain order!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u219	And Gergov?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u220	But in order to confirm that we are going to fight backstage, with these arrangements and ranks, I must be correct to the end. BSP's in the office. Her name is Denitsa Zlateva. This is why I am responsible for the Deputy Prime Minister and Prime Minister for the European Presidency. That's why we're responsible. Today, I say to you that the qualities of the person who participates on behalf of the BSP in the cabinet are highly appreciated. I received a call from Boyko Borisov, who suggested that Denitsa Zlateva stay in GERB's office. [[Voices: "Eeeee!" by GERB.]] This is the recognition of the participation of BSP in the office! I'm saying this so there won't be any backstage talk later. [[Comments from GERB and BSP for Bulgaria.]] I have declared here and on behalf of our parliamentary group that we will never allow agreements and backstages beyond the public eye. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] And for no more questions and speculation: I refused the participation of Denitsa Zlateva in the office of GERB and the Patriotic Front because the issue is principled. I repeat this once again: we cannot co-operate with the ruling majority, with which we do not have any common ground in the programmes. You can always rely on our understanding and on our voices when we are solving important issues for the European Presidency. Thank you, colleagues from GERB, and Mr. Borisov, for the assessment of Denitsa Zlateva and for the only participation of BSP in the office. [[Loud applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u221	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. From the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs? I won't. From the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Welcome, Mr Karadayi, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the DPS.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister! I am obliged, at least, for all those employees who, in an imprudent way, were fired from the office of Bliznashki, to take part in today's debate, and otherwise our parliamentary group had the idea of not participating in this debate. In some of them the names and positions and education and qualifications were read by this tribune in the previous National Assembly. I don't know, and I don't remember the office of Bliznashki getting the assessment that he sabotaged a possible future office. At least I don't remember. Yeah, I don't have that kind of memory. [[Radio.]] The question asked today by this tribune: who is responsible for the dismissals and for those dismissals who is responsible? Moreover, what happened in the mandate of the previous National Assembly after the service cabinet continued the party repression of public administration officials. Therefore, if we have to assess today's debate, we of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms would recall the folk saying, you know, the Thieves cry out: "Keep the thief! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u223	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. The Parliamentary Group of Wills? Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u224	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mr. Prime Minister! You all know that our party has not had any appointments to any positions so far, and in this sense there is no way that it has suffered from dismissals, therefore we cannot assess whether they were legal or illegal. But we have attended this meeting and we will agree with the assessment that it was practically pointless. The pragmatists of our group were even wondering what we were doing here at this meeting. I'll just say this isn't the first or second pointless sitting, it's a clearly programmed policy for the last 28 years. Therefore, we will try with our presence in this Forty-fourth National Assembly to make sure that pragmatism, technocratism is returned to the Chamber and to start using this expensive parliamentary time for cases that benefit the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian state. It is for such questions that you can rely on our support from all parliamentary parties to make decisions that are good for the Bulgarian people and for the state. Thank you and good luck to you all! [[Applause from Will]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-21.u225	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. That concludes Prime Minister Gerdjikov's hearing. Let's thank him for today's participation. We've run out of agendas. The next regular meeting on Wednesday 26 April 2017 at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
