ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, concerning a proposal from the National Assembly. No 754-00131, submitted on 23 November 2017 by Zhelyo Boychev and 33 other MPs, I propose that it be included in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly the following additional item. Importers. "Tasco Ermenkov and Zhelyo Boychev, 23 November 2017 Please vote. Vote 186 MPs: 183 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, in connection with the decision I have just adopted, I inform you that I am in charge of this decision. No 754-00-131 of 23 November 2017 was submitted a proposal from 34 Members of the Parliament who, on the basis of art. 50, para. 2 in relation to para. 1, t. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly want this item on the agenda to be examined in closed session, which is required by important state interests. The proposal has been made by more than one tenth of the Members of the National Assembly, which is therefore admissible under our Rules of Procedure and should be discussed. Before I give the floor to the representative of the importers, as required by art. 50, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask that all outsiders leave the hall and balconies, as well as that direct media transmission and Internet broadcasting be suspended, then the sitting will continue with the justification of the request for a closed session. I remind the Members of the National Assembly and the other persons involved that the discussions and minutes of the closed meeting are classified information and bind to the respective obligations all Members of the National Assembly and the persons having access to them. The envisaged in art. 50, para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, the publicity of an act adopted in closed session will be ensured and the latter will be published in the Official Journal of the European Union on the order for this. Please, Quaestors, invite outsiders to leave, and media cameras and microphones reflecting the meeting to be switched off. [[Next closed session.]] [[After the break and after the closed session.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u2	Dear Members of Parliament, we continue today: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 17 November to 23 November 2017 A question was received from the National Representative Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov to Nikolay Nankov, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, about the difficult financial situation of the Chief Management Construction and Reconstruction. The reply should be made in plenary on 1 December 2017. A question was received from Rumen Vassilev Gechev to Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, concerning the public debt. The reply should be made in plenary on 1 December 2017. A question was received from the MPs Dimitar Ivanov Danchev, Georgi Stratilov Svilenski and Kristian Ivanov Vigenin to Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister, on the policy for the construction of e-government. The reply should be made in plenary on 1 December 2017. A question has been received from the MP Georgi Yordanov Yordanov and Ilian Angelov Timchev to Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health, about a strategy for preserving and developing municipal hospitals. The reply should be made in plenary on 1 December 2017. A question has been received by the MP Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev and Hristo Tanchev Prodanov to Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health, on the policy of overcoming the lack of life-saving medicines reimbursed by NHIF. The reply should be made in plenary on 1 December 2017. There has been an inquiry from the National Representative Svetla Malinova Bachvarova-Piralkova and Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova, to Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister, concerning problems with the Ministry of Science, education and smart growth 2014-2020. The reply should be made in plenary on 1 December 2017. Written responses were received from: - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question of the National Representative Hasan Ademov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Bogdan Botsev and Nikolay Boshkov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Bogdan Botsev and Nikolay Boshkov; - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Polina Tsankova Hristova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Vasil Tsvetkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Georgiev; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Manol Genov, Georgi Turnovaliski and Veska Nencheva; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov on a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov on a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Boryana Georgieva. This has been done so far by written responses. We are moving on to the questions put to the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev. The first question to him is from the MP Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov about the existence of national socialist organizations in Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u3	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Minister, my question is related to the existence of national socialist organizations in Bulgaria. On 19 September 2017 a question asked by me about physical aggression and Nazi greetings from a student to a teacher at the Sofia Professional School of Tourism, from the parliamentary tribune You answer, I quote: "Fashist organizations in Bulgaria are disbanded and the Ministry of Interior has no evidence of the existence of neo-Nazi organizations on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and we do not even collect such data. In a written reply from you on 27 October 2017 to a question about the organisation and conduct of Lukovmarsh you claim, I quote: On 8 September 2017 an application was received in the Sofia Directorate of Interior, sent by the Sofia Municipality, for the organization and conduct of Lukovmarsh or the so-called "traurical torch marches." The application was submitted by the Bulgarian National Union You point out that over the years, this event has included, and I quote: "The compact groups of foreign citizens from Germany, Sweden, Poland and Croatia, who were also armed and most likely detained because they were not allowed to participate in the procession. You note that the opinion and opinion of the SDVR and NSO is a ban on the conduct of Lukovmarsh. I cannot accept your claim, Mr. Minister, that if you do not collect such data, there are no such organizations. It is more likely that there will be no such organizations, because you simply do not collect data about them. It is clear from what was said above that the main organizer of this event is the Bulgarian National Union, which by ideology professes extreme nationalism, euroscepticism and others. As co-organizer of the event is pointed out and the Youth Organization of VMRO this is from an interview of Krassimir Karakachanov from the portal scultura.bg. from 2013. Guests and participants from the site of the Bulgarian National Union in the event are extreme nationalist formations from France, Sweden, Norway, Russia, as well as the National Socialist NPD from Germany, the same being the host of the organizers of the event in Hitler's Germany. My question to you is: how many and what organizations with similar tendencies are there in Bulgaria and what measures will the Ministry of Interior take to dissolve such formations and spread flags and objects with Hitler's image and broken crosses?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u4	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ibryamov! At present, the Ministry of Interior has received no information about registered parties or the existence of national socialist organizations, as well as formations spreading flags and objects with Hitler's image and broken crosses. I repeat what I have told you and you have quoted, somewhat correctly. In establishing actions of such formations, spreading flags, objects with images of Hitler and broken crosses, all measures authorised by the Law will be taken. In carrying out mass events, rallies, marches, demonstrations and others, all necessary action shall be taken by the police authorities to clarify immediately all the facts and circumstances relating to each particular case. That's on me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u6	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov. You're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u7	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! I'm not fascinated by your answer, I didn't expect anything else. Mr. Minister, colleagues, notice: Nazi souvenirs are distributed on stalls in Sunny Beach and this is a sample of website from the UK. Mr. Minister, this is for you. I'll give it to you. [[Shows Minister list]] . This is spreading in Bulgaria, honourable Members! And instead of your fellow ministers, Deputy Prime Ministers to go to suppress some high decibels and noises in Sunny Beach, to note that in Bulgaria there is a spread of Nazi symbols with Hitler's image and broken crosses that is one thing. Another, Saturday, Sunday and Monday is organized, this information is available on the website of the Bulgarian National Union and on the website of the IMRO, again a torch procession called the Bulgarian March against the New Treaty. The New York Treaty, honourable Members, is that treaty that has been applied to Bulgaria since World War I, where certain territories have been taken away, as we are from the lost part. I open a large clamp, these territories are returned to Bulgaria from Hitler's Germany and see who is currently asking for revision of this New York contract. This means a revision of the new world order imposed by the Paris Peace Treaty, or do we want the UN to impose a new world order in Bulgaria? Is that what we want, Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u8	The weather, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u9	Yesterday we witnessed the signing of an agreement between Bulgaria and Macedonia. I ask: Is aceba, Ohrid Bulgarian territory because part of the coalition says that this territory is Bulgarian? Minister, Ministry of Interior to start collecting data on neo-Nazi organizations in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u10	Mr. Minister, you have an opportunity for a doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u11	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ibryamov, you have the right to say whatever you want, I am obliged to answer your question exactly. I will read you the question: How many and what organizations with similar tendencies are there in Bulgaria? What measures will the Ministry of Interior take to dissolve such formations and distribute flags and objects with Hitler's image and broken crosses? You specifically ask me, I specifically answer you. The fact that you have some political things that you have to say from this tribune, it doesn't concern me personally. I would like to ask you to quote correctly by saying: "I am asking you, and you are quoting at the beginning before asking the question. When you stop at Croatia, you should have said that you were closing the clamp, because I didn't say anywhere: who were armed and so on. These suggestions personally do not interest me, so I repeat the final answer: when conducting mass events and such as you are quoting will be these days, all necessary action will be taken by the police authorities to clarify immediately all the facts and circumstances pertaining to this case. We're acting under the law. Follow me, see if I can do something different. I can answer that. We're on thin ice, so I'm stopping here. Follow us, follow the Ministry of Interior and my personal actions, see that we will follow the law exactly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u12	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Before the next question to Minister Radev, a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u13	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ibryamov, I congratulate you on the question asked, but what else can we expect when from the highest state level the Bulgarian people are divided into castes of some high caste and 80% debaies? That's basically a Nazi statement. [[Applause from GERB.]] The foot to the broken crosses and to the concentration camps, whether it be for the Gypsies, Jews, or the retards, is very short. Ladies and gentlemen, with a clear conscience I say this, given the current composition in Parliament, we respect each and every one of you. [[pointing left-hand side of the hall]] , by you [[pointing central part of the hall]] And by you. [[pointing right-hand side of the room]] Every single relative of yours, your children, your parents, your sympathizers, we respect every Bulgarian citizen. This is precisely why, in order to protect the honor of both you and your relatives and your sympathizers, both yours and ours to all Bulgarian citizens, we will not let this matter go quietly. Both for your esteemed colleagues from the media and for your relatives and for your honor and for the honor of your relatives and your friends. We made the effort to draw certain numbers in order to try to identify in the end whether there is at least one retard in Bulgaria, because we of the Political Party Volya believe that the Bulgarian people are a proud people, a deserved people, a people who have survived a lot to get here so that we can now stand here to have a Bulgarian National Assembly. There are 2 million and 200,000 Bulgarian pensioners with average pension 334 BGN. Our parents, some of us, our mothers and fathers, surely only pensioners are more than 20 percent who are considered normal. So at least 700,000 of them are in the moron part. Is that what we will call the people who have built Bulgaria who have fought and built all that 20 years and how many years in the new democracy to have a looting and cannot rob what is built by our mothers and fathers who are currently retired, once again robbed with 334 BGN. Retirement? Are these the Bulgarian retards? We're moving on. I hesitated, by the way, whether to start with our children, which is the future of Bulgaria, or to start with the pensioners. Still, consider honor to our parents who have struggled to have what we now have. We're moving on to our children. By the age of 20, in an average of about 60-65 thousand children who are born in Bulgaria, one million and three hundred thousand Bulgarian children, brought up to conquer Olympiads, present us with dignity in Bulgaria. We move to the Bulgarian lecturers at universities, in schools, in kindergartens, to their assistants - are these Bulgarian idiots? Doctors, their patients, policemen, pilots are these Bulgarian idiots? By the method of exclusion, as I see you all agree, neither the Bulgarian children raised in our opinion nor their teachers, of course, with all the exceptions there are in our corrupt life, nor the teachers we can liken them as retards. And by the method of exclusion we came to the conclusion that in Bulgaria, apart from children, pensioners, doctors, teachers, policemen there is only one retard and that is him. [[Applause, laughter and excitement in GERB.]] And now that it's modern, you'll ask me the question: [[GERB lines: "Who? "]] Him! [[Laughter at GERB.]] Every single person who can afford to call the Bulgarian people retarded is nothing more than a hundred percent complete moron to us. [[Private applause and excitement in GERB.]] It is inevitable, ladies and gentlemen, the resignation of colleague Ivo Hristov. There is no way after such speeches, which, in a normal state of high morals, are maintained in these European countries that we are seeking, such a politician for a long time for much smaller speeches would have been in the nothingness. So Mr. Ivo Hristov's resignation is inevitable. We hope that the Bulgarian Socialist Party, our respected colleagues, their sympathizers, relatives and friends will make the right decision and will as quickly as possible distinguish themselves. We are not saying to go out, it is a moral act of Ivo Hristov whether he will leave parliament, but you can safely separate from him and exclude him from your parliamentary group. That will be enough to restore normal parliamentary life. And I'm gonna graduate for today. We may not be every kilometer away, but we will be at every meeting to remind you of the things I told you about today. Thank you very much. [[Applause from Volya and partial applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u14	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Dear Members of the National Assembly, children from the Association from the town of Young Mountains are visiting the balcony today. Petrich. Let's say hello to them. Welcome. [[Applause.]] We continue with a question from the MP Krum Zarkov to Valentin Radev, Minister of Interior, about the robberies and vandalism in Odylanika locality (Kapaklika), village of Pirgovo, Ivanovo municipality, Ruse district. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, my question is provoked by a complaint by property owners in Kapaklika area, Rusesko. Kapaklikka, Mr. Chairman, is a quiet place in Ruse region where people use it for recreation, there is a fork zone. Unfortunately, however, if you put Kapaklika on the Internet, the first few dozen informants will be for robbery and vandalism, wrecked and robbed houses in this otherwise beautiful place. This prevents people naturally from taking advantage of their property. Their repeated signals, complaints and requests to the First Regional Management of the Ministry of Interior in Ruse have so far failed. We need to know that very often the perpetrators are known. Sometimes even they were captured at the time of the robbery by the owners themselves and brought to the District Department. Days later, however, these same people brazenly demonstrated their impunity and even threatened with self-harm the legitimate owners who signaled their robberies. I have received letters which have also been sent to you, Mr. Minister, which clearly describes how these people threaten that if there is a signal against them, there will be consequences. And the consequences, unfortunately, do exist the next day people find knives stuck in the doors, or another ruined house. Therefore, Mr. Minister, my question is: what are the reasons why the law enforcement authorities in Ruse fail to prevent and punish the regular raids on this area and what measures will you take to protect the properties and their legitimate owners?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u16	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u17	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zarkov, Kapaklika locality, or Odylanika, Pirgovo village is located in the 9th and 10th kilometers of the main road I-5 and is a villa zone. It must be quiet and quiet. It is made up of a large number of small houses with large yard vines, of which only a small part are permanently habitable. The area is remote from other settlements. The district of Basarkovovo, the village of Pirgovo and the village of Mechka, which has been in some way a prerequisite for the theft of property from this villa area over the years. The Capakleika area has a high degree of vulnerability. Influences on the ability of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior to counter to the full extent of the crimes have further two factors.. non-reporting in the police department of committed crimes and often victims do not protect from external impact the crime scenes which constitute an obstacle to the search for fit dactiloscopic traces, as well as the inability to provide individual signs of stolen property. This subsequently makes it extremely difficult, you know, finding objects of crime and other environments. In the implementation of a plan to counter conventional crime, as well as based on a continuous analysis of the criminogenic situation in weakly populated areas, the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in Ruse, together with the Department of Internal Affairs and Public Order Security at Ruse Municipality, is established a system of enhanced police presence not only in this area of Kapaklika, but also in other similar settlements within the serviced territory. The planned and implemented events give a positive result in strengthening a sense of security for the residents and owners of the properties in our opinion. In the period from January to November 16th this year on the territory of Kapaklika locality, or also known Odylanika, as you said, there are two property thefts. Two property thefts, as well as two pre-trial proceedings. There is an established perpetrator in one of the pre-trial proceedings that is attracted to him in his capacity of defendant. In the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Ruse, no information has been received and no complaints have been lodged by victims who have been bullied or additionally, except those reported thefts, following the declaration of a crime in the First District Management of the District Directorate. Since the beginning of 2017 there have been no registered crimes under art. 198 This is theft, in that territory. My call, ending with this, is, if all that you've put out, I don't doubt it, in any way, should be enough... You say there are threats. In addition, after what you've said here, I'm going to conduct such a check. Only if you can identify threats from whom? In addition to checking out why these people, if you say so and it's true as people say, why don't they get to the police? I can't believe the police won't react and she'll threaten them, or somehow influence them, but we'll check that out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u18	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Zarkov, would you like to use the opportunity for a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u19	Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for your serious treatment. Threats don't come, let's be clear, from the cops they complained to, but from those people caught by the citizens themselves when they rob. They catch them, they take them to the precinct, there is what needs to be formed, after which the same person passes by with his car around the area, waving his finger and saying: "You will see what will happen to you. And it happens. That's it. I have a complaint before me, I can provide it to you, from September 8th of this year, from seven of the owners who have described inside and the attitude they have received from the officers to whom they have complained. I fully understand how difficult what is required and what tensions are under and the policemen who most likely want to help. These houses are not permanently habitable facts. This makes their protection difficult, but that is precisely the meaning of a villa zone. The ownership of the Bulgarian citizen must be protected everywhere and at any time, although it is difficult. I'm not talking about cases where investigations are difficult. I'm talking about the cases where the man is caught with his hands in the honey barrel, if you'll allow us to express ourselves in a figurative manner. Here it is worth thinking, Mr. Minister, and you and we, for our part, why do law enforcement fail to respect those notoriously famous vandals who sometimes harass an entrance, sometimes a village, sometimes a fork zone that all citizens know about, who often find themselves in regional government in one way or another? What's the reason we can't take away these people's fear? Is it legislative, is it organizational, financial security and a lack of resources? We need to think about this because often there is a small minority of so-called small-scale criminals who are doing great damage under the common name of domestic crime.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u20	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Minister, you have an opportunity for a doppelganger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Zarkov, I'm sure I can answer more in general as you want me to. I give you this: you give me the complaint, I check it out, this thing goes all the way down from the operations as prevention, and for the other the bigger one, if you listened carefully, you probably did. There I told you two pretrial proceedings, why there are no convicts, why shouldn't I go there? We are trying to do our part of the task. We'll be more thorough, you give me a check-up, and personally to you, if you want and from this tribune I'll answer for the result.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u22	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u23	We continue with the questions asked to the Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev. First, a question by the National Representative Georgi Mihailov concerning the need to adopt long-term measures to deal with the serious financial situation of hospital care institutions. Please, Professor Mihailov, ask your question. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! I will use a word that has become very popular in the last few days in our dictionary, notorically known is the difficult financial condition of Bulgarian hospitals. The reason for the question, but I will try to summarize it a little bit and put the point on something that is much more important for us as MPs is the serious financial situation of Vratsa's Multiprofile Hospital, which, with the data exported, has 13 million debts, 7 million of which are overdue, and unfortunately, the need to pay another 3 million for interest on the principals that have not been paid by this hospital. In the last year, due to the serious financial situation, 120 people have been made redundant or have left the hospital staff, which puts the region that it serves in a very serious state as regards the possibility of providing effective health care, and this is part of the country's national security. It is not necessary for you, as a principal, who has already and always been a member of the health system, to share many other examples as well. About the hospital in Lovech, where I found out with satisfaction that you were very soon meeting with the staff of the hospital, the hospitals in Pomorie, Dryanovo, and also the difficult financial condition of many, strategically for Bulgaria, hospitals and large university hospitals. It is also known that the obligations of hospitals in Bulgaria to distributors, to their counterparties exceed the already solid amount of half a billion leva. My principle question is: what measures do you and the Ministry's management foresee to address this so serious problem that literally strategically plagues the activities of the vast majority of hospitals in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u25	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. Come in for an answer, dear Minister! You have three minutes for this.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u26	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Professor Mihaylov! Health is one of the priorities of the government, such as the National Assembly with the Budget Act of the State, which is adopted at the end of each year and with the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund provides the resource needed to finance the activities of hospitals. One of the main objectives that stands before the Minister of Health is to create such an organization that this resource is used most efficiently, appropriate and intended to improve the quality of the service of Bulgarian patients. A major priority in my work is improving and optimizing the mechanisms, functioning and control of hospital care facilities with state participation so that the population really gets an increasingly quality health service. However, the implementation of this policy is also linked to the restructuring and prioritization of a number of other aspects of the Ministry of Health's activities, which are relevant to the functioning of these institutions, the regulations, infrastructure, investment and other health activities and the directions of payments to hospitals. The complex approach is mandatory to take into account all advantages and disadvantages of the functioning of the health system accumulated for years. In this direction, I have taken action to prepare a number of regulations which at this stage have been repealed and are relevant to the functioning of hospital medical care, as well as to analyse the problems outlined in the implementation of this policy in the field of hospitals. Within a short period of time, I will present my priorities and intentions regarding future financing and functioning of hospitals. I just want to say a few words about the last sentence. On the first day of my intervention as Minister of Health, the first thing I focused my attention on is hospital care. Within three weeks, I have been tasked with doing a full financial analysis of all hospital care facilities with over 50% state participation. Not only the financial situation, the overall activity, including the management of the relevant management. On the basis of this analysis, I will propose a specific programme with specific measures for restructuring and rescuing those hospitals that need this. This programme will be public, it will be granted to you for this period and for this activity I will bear my responsibility to the government and to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u27	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you are, Professor Mihailov, you have the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u28	Thank you, Madam President. And thank you, Minister, for the serious commitment you present to us in the first days of your government as one of the most neural places in the social activity of the state. I just want to share with you that you probably know that yesterday Eurostat's report on the state of the health sector in Bulgaria came out and there are two very serious facts to which I allow myself to draw your attention in my brief opportunity for a reply. The first fact is that Bulgaria stands in the first place in the number of hospitalizations per 1,000 people, which suggests that the problem of the Vicarno, as we call it in a professional language, an increase in the number of hospitals, in the case of a fallen health card and the rise of mantra from certain circles, which are interested in not being created at all, for the uncontrolled hospitalization of Bulgarian citizens in order to drain the financial resources of the Casata. However, the second issue, which is very important, which I hope with the honourable Members of the Chamber to debate at the second reading of the Budget Act, is the financing mechanism through the so-called clinical paths and I regret to repeat it again in the Chamber, which I shared when you entered the office that we, as a political force, believe that this mechanism should be subject to a very serious professional discussion with your participation, your team, but also to other institutions in Bulgaria, so that we can, at the end of next financial year 2018, be fully aware of what the mechanism of financing the health system will be, otherwise these debts will not be able to be reduced seriously, I say this as administrator of the system until recently, and will create more and more problems, both for the government and the Bulgarian nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u29	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Here's your coat, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u30	With regard to the first finding made in the report, there is indeed such a trend, and if you have noticed in my brief speech on your question, I particularly paid attention to the control. What I am going to strengthen by the end of this year and especially next year is the control in all its possible forms, both the control that the bodies of the National Health Insurance Fund carry out and the relevant institutions, bodies that are at the Ministry of Health. Don't doubt that if I have to, I will also use the specialized services to solve certain crimes. With regard to the second question, this debate must be held. If you remember, in my office before you, I took the commitment to establish an advisory board. The draft of my order for his creation is already ready. It will become a fact and this will be one of the first issues that we will discuss within this advisory board. This, of course, does not mean that we will not have debates in other formats, including in parliament. Indeed, this health insurance model, which currently exists, is to a certain extent exhausted. We need to find his development or upgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. There is a question from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov about the need to make savings for medicinal products by introducing hospital packaging. Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u32	Thank you, Madam President. I have a point of order before I expose the one to Mr. Ananiev. It is related to the question as the two questions that I have subsequent, this and the next are related to each other. Whether you as a respected Chairman of this session would allow me to unite them, so that I do not burden the honourable Members and the honourable Mr. Ananiev with the answers to two questions that are related to each other. They can be separated, but they're connected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u33	I understand, if the Minister doesn't mind, I think we can do it. Here you are, for the second question in a row, then you will connect the sixth question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u34	I'll put the two questions together, yeah. Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Dear Minister Ananiev! The successes of modern clinical medicine are extremely serious, especially in the field of clinical oncology and in the last 15 years we have witnessed a radical change that reflects these successes in the classification of the World Health Organisation that chronic non-health diseases to which a group of cancers have fallen, this is the subset that has passed from the group of fatal to the group of chronic diseases. However, this is linked to an extremely serious financial capacity which is incorporated in the diagnosis and treatment of these diseases and requires the use of increasingly new generations of medicines that successfully combat one or other malignant disease. What impresses the statistics data and has been discussed repeatedly in the Committee on Health, in public debates that unfortunately, the way these drugs are used purely technologically in Bulgaria, the method of reconstitution, of application, creates the possibility of the disposal of more than 20% of these drugs, i.e. its non-use, which significantly increases the price, which is already extremely high and Bulgaria is making huge efforts in this regard, but its financial capacity is undoubtedly not huge and two issues are being imposed in relation to this finding. The previous government has introduced, in our view, the absolutely acceptable and positive initiative to launch the establishment of semi-automatic or automated systems for the dissolution of anti-tumor medicines, and the question has also been raised in the Commission, and in a professional debate on the use of so-called hospital packages. Both issues are not in the interest of distributors or producers who distribute these molecules on the territory of Bulgaria, as this would reduce on average, according to our data, by about 25% spending. But so far, despite all the debates, government decisions from the recent past, this issue remains unsolved. On the contrary, those who have been raised professionally to us are absolutely unacceptable that there is little need for the introduction of automated systems, the question of hospital packaging is quite frankly withheld. My question to you is: what is the opinion of the Ministry's leadership in this so important for the Bulgarian healthcare direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u35	Thank you, Professor. Mikhailov. You united the two questions and asked them. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister. You have twice as much time to answer both questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u36	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Professor Mikhailov! Under European legislation in the field of medicinal products transposed into the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, the holder of the authorisation for the use of a medicinal product which invests in the development and after obtaining the relevant authorisation from the regulatory authorities has the responsibility for placing it on the market and is the only entity that has exclusive rights to the product. In view of this, only and only he can dispose of the medicinal product with regard to its production and marketing, its wholesale and retail sale, respectively his desire, or his refusal to be included in the positive drug list. It is important to note that the imposition of administrative measures for the mandatory introduction of hospital packaging in hospitals is directly related to the procedures for the authorisation and marketing of medicinal products, and the regulatory authorities should only establish compliance with the requirements of the authorisation and marketing procedures. The submission of applications by the holder of a marketing authorisation of a medicinal product requires voluntary will and not coercion, as it is bound by the economic interests of the legal person. All pack sizes for the medicinal product concerned are described in each marketing authorisation. But in t. 6 of its short characterisation, which forms an integral part of the Marketing Authorisation, is explicitly stated that not all authorised packaging may be placed on the market. Each marketing authorisation holder shall assess which packaging to be placed on the relevant market, which is related to the type and size of the market, with the particularities of national legislation regarding the pricing and reimbursement of medicinal products and the production costs resulting from the size of each batch. A successful approach to reducing the financial resources allocated by medicinal products establishments is the ongoing in recent years in most European countries the upward development of the centralised procurement by the central authority in each country of the so-called Framework Agreements. The benefits of such an undertaking are undisputed, and the Ministry of Health has already implemented a policy in this area through the establishment and operation of the central purchasing body in the sector. With regard to the ineffective spending of medicinal products, particularly in the field of oncology and haematology, and their incomplete recovery in the course of the treatment process, we believe that this practice is not directly relevant to the specific size of the packaging, but rather affects the organisation of work in clinics, wards and hospital pharmacies of medical establishments. The doses and quantities of medicinal products given in these therapeutic areas are strictly specific and individual for each patient. They are not constant, but on the contrary, may vary significantly depending on the condition of the individual patient, its individual specificity, gender, age, weight and so on. However, in order to avoid the ineffective consumption of residues of medicinal products in the course of the treatment process, the National Framework Treaty for 2017 requires that anti-tumor medicinal products providing basic treatment for malignant and solid tumours and haematological diseases that are most cost-effective should be applied to the scheduled regimens by ensuring that patients are taken on a time-frame that ensures the least excess in infusion forms. This schedule is validated by the attending clinic, the department where treatment with infusion antitumor medicinal products is carried out. This requirement is laid down as an obligation for hospitals in order to optimize the costing of expensive medicines that are not actually used due to the inability to apply the remainder of the quantity to another patient in due time. For the same reasons administratively, the requirement was also introduced that hospitals applying anti-tumor therapies bring their activities into a way that will ensure the centralised preparation of medicinal products for systemic treatment of malignancies in a form for direct administration of the patient. To conclude, I would like to say that when assessing the effect of applying an administrative and enforcement measure, the specifics of the trade in medicinal products and the specifics of the united European market and the Bulgarian market as a whole should be taken into account. The Bulgarian market for medicinal products is one of the smallest in the European Union. For each batch and each package of a medicinal product, the manufacturer is obliged to produce a final package and package leaflet in Bulgarian. In the case of limited quantities for a small market, the cost of production would be significant and in this regard the lack of interest of the marketing authorisation holders cannot be overcome by binding measures, as this would lead to a lack of medicinal products on the Bulgarian market. This is about the first question. Indeed, the two questions are closely linked. I will only cover that part that relates to the second question, as there are basically motives that match both issues. In order to avoid ineffective consumption of residues of the packaging of medicinal products during the treatment process in the National Framework Treaty for 2017, concluded between the National Health Insurance Fund and the Bulgarian Medical Union, it is necessary that anti-tumor medicinal products providing basic treatment for malignant solid tumours and haematological diseases, which are essentially the most cost-effective from the point of view of compartments for them financial resources, are applied under appointed schemes. I deliberately enter with this sentence, which was also in the answer to the previous question, because it is also fundamental to the answer to this question. This schedule should be validated by the attending clinic and the ward, as I mentioned, and this requirement is laid down as an obligation of medical institutions and aims to optimise the costs of expensive medicines. It is important to note that an in-depth analysis of the effectiveness of the use of automated and semi-automatic systems for the preparation of individual doses of chemotherapeutics is a mandatory condition prior to their regulatory regulation for mandatory use in pharmacies of medical institutions. In this regard, the Ministry of Health has requested information from hospitals in the country having robotic or semi-automatic systems for the reconstitution of cytostatics in terms of the workload of these systems and the volume of medicinal products. It is clear from the information received that semi-automatic systems are currently not used due to the inability to load in full and with regard to the economic inefficiency of their use related to the cost of consumables necessary for their operation. In fully automated robotic systems, greater loads are observed, but given their significant cost they would only be applicable in large cancer and haematological centres serving a significant number of patients, in which case the effectiveness of their use is mainly linked to shortening the technological time to prepare individual doses. The Ministry of Health continues to seek rational solutions to the problem of increasing financial costs to ensure the treatment of certain diseases to ensure, on the one hand, effective and safe treatment of the patient and, on the other, to protect the health of medical personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u37	Mr. Minister, you could continue in the back. We also delayed the double-time increase by nearly three minutes. Thank you for your answer. Here's a line for you. National Representative Georgi Mihailov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u38	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! I have listened carefully to your answer and I deeply appreciate your desire to empathize with this issue, but unfortunately, it is objective and cannot be removed. The lack of serious professional awareness on this issue and the presentation in this way of the response that you have kindly provided to us, personally, cannot satisfy me and I will tell you very specifically why. The first thesis, which rises for the so-called time period, in which these anti-tumor remedies should be applied, is contrary to a fundamental principle in anti-tumor therapy and is called the strength of the therapy. We can't, that can't be done at any time. I'm saying this as a professional oncologist and oncochematologist, to patients being handed certain molecules on certain days. This is virtually impossible, causing problems for themselves and causing problems especially for the effect of therapy. The second question in which you have probably been misled is true that in the product characteristics the manufacturer has the right to propose one or another packaging, but each marketing authorisation has its own time limit. In all countries of the European Union, negotiations are carried out on the expiry of the deadline with the manufacturer, because otherwise, I will share with you my great disappointment as to what paradox it comes to, in the treatment of one of our diseases a gram concentration per square meter of an antitumor molecule is used. We have been in the paradox for years now to dissolve 20, 30, 40 small vials only for the application for one treatment regimen, for one patient, which puts... And to the reduced personnel resources in the hospitals! There is no need to delude ourselves that pharmaceutical departments, pharmacies of hospitals also experience, like all other directions, acute shortage of personnel. And imagine when this small number of collective has to make this movement, figuratively speaking in quotes, how it is demotivated and how prerequisites for the inefficiency of all technology are created. Next, I took the liberty of asking the kind President to allow me to link the two issues, because they are closely linked. Semi-automatic and automated systems do have their effectiveness when applied to hospital packaging. When they are applied to those currently provided to us by manufacturers and distributors, they will not really be effective. But believe me, in a sufficiently busy medical unit, the pharmacies department is placed in very difficult working conditions and this creates opportunities for turnover. That is, in a serious professional discussion to reach a solution which, within a linear future, perhaps not a year, as permissions expire periodically, that you very well know it as a supervisor, to conduct non-impulsory but very serious negotiations with manufacturers and to come to the resolution of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u39	Thank you, Professor. Mikhailov. Here's your coat, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u40	Honourable Professor. Mihailov, I am convinced that there is much truth in your speech as a person who is practical and who is involved in this area. I accept the given hand to continue our discussions and debates in this regard. Surely what we find at the moment in the Ministry is not the most optimal, there is something to improve, we will continue the talks to find the really best solution. Otherwise, as not a doctor in terms of the first question, I think that the best solution related to medicines packaging and their use will be the electronic platform for conducting centralised procurement of medicines, which will enable us to put in the technical assignment what we really need as the most efficient use and get from the manufacturers and suppliers concerned exactly those kinds that we want. I think this centralized platform will help a lot to achieve the result that you want us to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u41	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We continue with a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov about the absorption of the funds under art. 53, para. 3 of the Health Act. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! In recent years, there have been some dynamics in the main indicators of drug use in Bulgaria, which is also consistent with the common trends in the European Union. As a result of other studies, we can point out that about 380-390 thousand Bulgarian citizens from 15 to 64 years have at least one drug use in their lives. A large number of students have drunk alcohol at least once in their lives, 77.7% of all respondents have been drinking in the last 12 months, and most of them have used alcohol in the last month. After all, about two thirds of high school students have used alcohol in the last thirty days. This only shows that alcohol is really present in the lives of Bulgarian students, as well as the Bulgarians as a whole. Less than half of the students studied, 46% have smoked in the last 30 days, 50.7% in the last 12 months; 61% of the students studied at least once in their lives. Clearly, prevention of all these addictions is necessary. It is good that the Health Act explicitly mentions activities for impact on health risk factors. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53 of the Health Act is written: The Minister of Health and other competent state authorities are obliged together with non-governmental organisations to create conditions for limiting smoking, alcohol abuse and non-drug use. The activities under this prevention are carried out through national programmes to limit smoking and alcohol abuse and to prevent the use of narcotics. And it is even better that this Law also indicates one of the sources of funds to secure these activities. In that same article. 53 says: "One hundred of the funds received in the Republican budget from excise duties on tobacco products and spirits is used to finance national programmes to limit smoking, alcohol abuse and to prevent the use of narcotics. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The question to be answered, Minister, is: what is the amount of funds received by the Ministry of Health for 2015 or 201 under the Health Act and how are these funds spent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u43	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Come in, Minister Ananiev, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, Dear Mr. Gokov! A major priority in my work as Minister of Health is to improve the scope, quality and effectiveness of activities related to the prevention and promotion of citizens' health, including activities to curb smoking, alcohol abuse and prevent drug use. I stress that, apart from the budget of the Ministry of Health, and through the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, a significant resource is allocated for prevention and monitoring of socially significant and common diseases. A number of cross-sectoral policies related to the work of other ministries and municipalities implement activities in these areas and directions. I list all these directions of spending by institutions to remind you that this type of expenditure is not carried out only by the budget of the Ministry of Health, but also by other institutions. As regards the Ministry of Health for the activities under art. 53, para. 3 of the Health Act is provided annually by means of activities and programmes as follows: for the budget programme "Reducing demand for narcotics', which takes into account the expenditure for the National Center for Drug Addiction and Activities under the National Programme for the Implementation of the Action Plan of the National Strategy for Combating Drugs; central supplies of medicinal products for mental and behavioural dependence; activities under the National Programme for the Prevention of Chronic Infectious Diseases, which also include activities aimed at limiting smoking and alcoholism. Following the adoption of the budget parameters of the Ministry of Health for 2018, an estimate and allocation of funds for 2018 will be made in these areas of activity in line with the priorities for the development of the sector next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. Come in for a line, Mr. Gokov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u46	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, you've been very cleverly avoiding quoting numbers. I will tell you, however, by law 1% of the excise duty on cigarettes and alcohol should be used to prevent addictions. That's what the legislator decided. I'm a little old for the information I'm going to give you, but for 2016, maybe for 2017 the funds are the same. The funds for 2015 entered into the Republican budget of excise duties on tobacco products and spirits amounted to 2 billion. 360 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. That's where they move. This means that in the Ministry of Health or, as you say in other institutions that are struggling with addictions, 23 million should have been allocated by the Ministry of Finance. 605 thousand. lv. to finance these national programmes to limit smoking and alcohol abuse and to prevent the use of drugs. The health department didn't ask for it. The question is to you, you are recently a minister and I hope you will change this thing, but we have national programs to limit these addictions or to reduce the influence of these vices on the Bulgarian population, but I think they are underfunded. By the way, these funds also finance the activities of municipal drug councils. The health law has been in force since 2005 and for 13 years this money has not been allocated for this thing, the Ministry of Finance has not granted them in violation of the Law. I can't make a rough bill, but there's about 240 million in those 14 years. You can imagine with this 240 million what can be done in the direction of prevention and prevention of these addictions?! There's a lot to talk about, I'll tell you a few things. The Bulgarian Health Act is currently being violated. And like back in the day Simeon Djankov, when he was a finance minister, didn't go against art. 100 of the Social Insurance Code indexing pensions and violating the Law, now 15 years is being violated and this Health Act is being violated. I'm thinking, if you think that 1% is a lot, let's cut it down, but we're embarrassing ourselves. Firstly, the legislator has decided and we have said: Let's change the law and tell society that this money is a lot and make it less, but let's know it's about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u47	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here you are, Minister Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u48	I think, Mr. Gokov, that the Ministry of Health has also done the right thing by not asking for that money, and the Ministry of Finance has done the right thing by not predicting them for the budget, and I will tell you why. Really, in art. 53 there is such a text, but it goes against the financial constitution of the public sector, the so-called Public Finance Act, where it is said that the incomes are not targeted and are used to cover all costs. Any violation of the Public Finance Act will have serious consequences. The work of the government and of you, as a parliament that approves the Budget Act of both the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund, is to see that with the resource that is intended for health care, the programmes we are talking about today are provided. You indicated the number twenty-something million. She's a little more at the moment, to be exact about one percent. But, you know, for next year, for 2018 more than 4 billion are planned for healthcare. Seven hundred million. BGN, including the programs you are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u49	Thank you, Minister Ananiev. We're going to the next question. He is asked by the National Representative Anton Kutev on guaranteeing independent life and inclusion in the community of people with chronic respiratory failure. Here you are, dear Mr. Kutev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u50	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, I would like to begin my speech with the hopes that I have with your appointment, because I think you have at least three advantages. One, of course, is the exceptional administrative experience you have. The second is that you have worked for a long time in finance, and that is what I think health care needs right now. And the third thing I think is more plus than minus is that you're external to the health care system, which is good, and I think will give you opportunities. So I am starting my speech with the hope that you will be able to launch a real health reform, which we all need. It's about oxygen therapy. There are a lot of people in Bulgaria who suffer from chronic respiratory failure and who need long-term oxygen therapy. My question to you is, how many are there? This is a serious problem for these people. These Bulgarian citizens have so far been deprived of the opportunity to enjoy this treatment free of charge, which is a precedent in Europe. Everywhere in Europe this is possible, it is used free of charge, there is a developed oxygen treatment system. Generally, chronic respiratory failure is a disease syndrome where we have ineffective absorption and supply of oxygen from the air into the blood and from there to the tissues. The chronic lack of oxygen in all organs and tissues leads to their poor functioning and to rapid death. The most common cause of this condition are chronic pulmonary diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; emphysema; idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, pulmonary hypertension, cystic fibrosis, lung cancer. These diseases also include cardiac, neurological, oncological and other chronic sufferings that increase the number of people who need oxygen therapy. I'm counting all of this because according to the World Health Organization, chronic pulmonary diseases are the third cause of death after heart and cerebrovascular diseases. That is, we are talking about an extremely serious disease, which is currently not actually treated by the Health Insurance Fund and is actually paid by Bulgarian citizens. Here the big problem is not that it is paid. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just a few more minutes. The big problem is not that it is paid, but that it makes it virtually impossible for them. In other words, my question to you is: what number of Bulgarian citizens currently need home-based oxygen therapy, what are the policies you plan to ensure independent life and inclusion in the community of each person with chronic respiratory failure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u51	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Here you are, Minister Ananiev, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u52	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kutev, chronic respiratory failure is a stage in the course of various chronic diseases, including pulmonary, extradermal diseases, neuromuscular diseases, stroke, tumors, spinal traumas, metabolic diseases and others. The main activities in all of these diseases should be prevention of removal or early discontinuation of the causal conditions and diseases causing the development of respiratory failure, timely and qualitative diagnosis and treatment. In order to provide medical care to patients with various diseases and conditions that would lead to the development of respiratory failure, the basic package of health activities guaranteed by the National Health Insurance Fund budget includes a number of activities in hospital and outpatient medical care for diagnosis and treatment. Those activities and measures are entirely aimed at preventing and delaying progression and reaching the terminal phases of respiratory failure in which patients need oxygen breathing assistance. Particular attention and care require patients who, due to the course of their disease, have reached the stage of advanced decompensated respiratory failure. For them, the main package of health activities provides clinical pathways and clinical procedures in the field of intensive treatment that provide respiratory support through non-invasive or invasive ventilation apparatus. These diagnostic and treatment activities are carried out in each well-functioning and equipped intensive care clinic, as well as specialized structures for the treatment of pulmonary diseases. According to the consensus international recommendations of scientific medical companies for patients with advanced respiratory insufficiency and the need for oxygen therapy, such should also be available at home. However, it should be taken into account that home oxygen therapy in these patients is administered in strict indications and is only one of the components of complex treatment in addition to the corresponding treatment of the underlying disease. The Ministry of Health has taken action to include activities in the main medical surveillance package of patients with neuromuscular diseases who, due to the weakness of the respiratory muscles in the terminal phases of the disease, need assistance in breathing. A regulatory possibility has been created for this to be carried out under the Ambulator procedure 10 "Observation in patients with neuromuscular diseases of non-invasive ventilation' to continue monitoring in patients with previously assigned respiratory assistance with non-invasive ventilation. According to the reference provided by the NHIF Information System, 24 hospitals have entered into a contract to implement this outpatient procedure. I would like to take this opportunity to assure you that the Ministry of Health is committed to the problems of all patients, including those with chronic respiratory failure and the need to assist breathing, and the necessary action is taken as possible to improve access and quality of medical care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u53	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u54	Dear Minister, you didn't exactly answer the first part of my question about how many patients, because, as far as I know, you don't know exactly, and no one does. According to my information from the people I've spoken to, from the specialists who work in this area, there are between 15 and 20 thousand people in the country, but this is an assumption that is not based on accurate data. For this reason, my request is, and when I say my request is, it is not a personal request, it is the people who represent these communities, because it is really about people with severe problems, first, the Ministry of Health and NHIF urgently to explore the needs of domestic oxygen therapy. What you've been telling me about so far are the hospitals where when they get there, there's oxygen therapy. But they can't and shouldn't live one, two, three or four years. They must have the opportunity to live outside the hospital. And if you look at the map of Europe, there are designated places for them to load their bottles by going somewhere with them, because in order to get from one place to another, they need oxygen. There are stations, airports and places where they can load these bottles. And when you go to Bulgaria, they're gone. So the point is that they have no freedom of movement, that they are extremely difficult, because that includes two things. One is the supply of oxygen, of oxygen itself, and how they reach it and, the other, is the supply of equipment. Right now they're buying equipment, which is expensive and not everyone can afford it. But that's not the biggest problem. The big problem is that when they buy it, they use it for a while and then these bottles stay under the beds of families forever, and the others buy again. That is, if a system were to be created in which these bottles were to be exchanged in some way, it would be much cheaper for the whole society, not to mention people. So accept that this question of mine to you is only the beginning of this topic. That's a big theme. There are a lot of people we need to solve these problems for. I'm quite well-meaningly putting the question now. I will put it even in many different ways, because we must, together with you, see Mrs Daritkova, i.e. with the Health Committee, find a solution to the problem in some much more part than it is at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u56	Dear Mr. Kutev, I fully support the direction of action that you propose. Of course, we have to go that way. This is perhaps a matter of further negotiation at least within the framework of the National Framework Treaty. This is an activity, an expenditure which so far, specifically at home, is not financed by the National Health Insurance Fund, is not foreseen, unfortunately, and in the budget for next year. Perhaps on the basis of the real contingent and setting the cost for a person who needs such assistance, we will value what it will cost as a resource of the National Health Insurance Fund and at a possible and appropriate time to become part of the contractual process. But first we need to clarify really the financial indicators and the funds that are needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u57	Thank you, dear Minister. We come to a question from the MP Georgi Turnovalyski about increasing the hepatitis patients in Plovdiv region. Here you are, Mr. Turnovallisky, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Ministers gentlemen, colleagues! During a reception hall held in Rakovski municipality, Plovdiv District, I was approached by concerned parents about the increasing number of hepatitis patients in kindergartens and schools in the municipality. There have also been enough publications in the media over the past month on this issue. After a study, it became clear that since mid-September, the number of sick people increased sharply, and in the first two weeks of October only in the municipality of Rakovski the number of sick children grew by 20. There's about 100 of them right now. At the same time, more than 40 children were hospitalized at the Infectious Hospital in Plovdiv, most of them from Sadovo Municipality. Given the rapid increase in the diseased and their age group, for the municipality of Rakovski this is equivalent to an epidemic. Rakovski Municipality has published on its official page measures to prevent the disease, but no information is available on other preventive measures it has taken. Dear Minister, my question is: what is the real situation; is there an epidemic of hepatitis in the municipality of Rakovski; how many are sick in the district of Plovdiv; is the outbreak detected and what measures have been taken to limit and protect the population?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u59	That was Mr. Turnover's question. Here you are, dear Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u60	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, dear Mr. Turnovallisky! From the beginning of July until the end of October 2017 on the territory of Rakovski municipality, Plovdiv region, two epidemic outbreaks of viral hepatitis type A occur with a total of 144 patients. The first blast started 23 July 2017 and covered a total of 50 persons from the village of Belozem, the village of Shishmantsi and the village of Chalakov. The infection was carried from the village of Milevo, where in April 2017 there was a registered BHA explosion with 16 patients. Initially she had a child of six who lived in the village of Milevo, then six other contact persons - cousins and children who played together. The settlements are in close proximity and most of them are sick in close relation or contact at work, mostly of Roma origin. Of the three children in childhood and school age, two attend kindergarten in the village of Shishmantsi and on one occasion there are in the primary schools in the villages of Belozem and Shishmantsi. The second blast was registered on 16 August 2017 and to date covers a total of 62 sick people from the Roma neighborhood in the town of Rakovski. Two primary schools are involved: Primary school.Smirnenski. 21 cases, and Primary school................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In addition, a total of 32 cases of viral hepatitis type A have been recorded in the village of Katunitsa, Sadovo municipality, for the period from 18 August 2017 until now. A total of 144 people from the two municipalities of Rakovski and Sadovo, 105, or 72.9% are in the age group up to 15 years old. Although the cases are mostly in mild form, all patients are hospitalized at the Infectious Clinic of the University Hospital of St. George, in order to limit contact and due to the poor living conditions of some of them. Since the beginning of 2017 there have been 568 cases of viral hepatitis type A in the Plovdiv region, and during the second half of the year there have been blasts in the municipality of Maritsa, village of Rogosh - 31 sick, and in the village of Manolsko Konare - 44 sick, the explosion is not over, and in the municipality of Asenovgrad, village of Boyantsi - 10 sick. Again affected by the disease are mainly children up to 15 years of Roma origin, and the main route of distribution is contact-bit due to non-compliance with good personal hygiene. That's the main reason why I don't care about personal hygiene. There are no cases of food or water that you may be very interested in. To your question: what are the measures taken by RZI Plovdiv? Each case of a sick person is studied in a timely manner by the Regional Health Inspectorate Plovdiv. The general practitioner of the person shall be informed immediately of the necessary anti-epidemic measures to be taken in the outbreak and in organised collectives, the search for contact persons, active medical surveillance and laboratory examination. Prescriptions shall be given to the mayors of municipalities and settlements, general practitioners and directors of the concerned kindergartens and schools for taking competence measures on: ensuring a sufficient number of waste containers and their timely haulage; removing available unregulated landfills and enhanced controls to prevent the formation of new ones; strengthening control in the areas of food and public nutrition in affected neighborhoods; strict monitoring of the presence of unregulated and carrying out of disinfecting and deterative activities in them; providing by the municipalities of disinfecting preparations for carrying out currents and final disinfection in the detected outbreaks of viral hepatitis in the most risky areas; strengthening control of the quality of drinking water; conducting a daily filter in children's establishments for preventing the visit of sick children; strict compliance with anti-epidemic and disinfect mode in children's facilities and schools. RZI Plovdiv also cooperated with the general practitioners in searching for and examining contact persons. In order to limit the disease in children's institutions and schools, information materials on the symptoms of the disease, how to protect, the need to respect personal hygiene are distributed. Repeated on-the-spot checks shall be carried out to comply with the prescription. Mr. Turnovallisky, what now comes out like a boom, as we say, is the result of the fact that there is an incubation period of 40.45 days. You probably know it better than I do this thing. So the disease happened then, and now it's actually coming out. This boom has already had the opposite trend, as from 21 November to today there is only one case in the municipality of Rakovski, registered with hepatitis A.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u61	Dear Minister, I allowed a double extension of time because it was a kind of health education. Thank you for your reply. Here's a line for you, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u62	Madam President, I thank you for the opportunity for health education and hope that residents and worried parents have heard, but they will hardly be comforted by what I have heard. For the statistics you've brought out, Mr. Minister, I thank you, but it won't help her parents to calm them down. There seems to be a problem with hygiene in these Roma neighborhoods and this is a problem throughout the country. There must be care here, of course, of the municipalities, but also of the health authorities in the face of RZI. What worries me and the parents the most are the measures that are being taken because the representing RZI Plovdiv say: "This is what we can do. The mayor of the municipality says: "We have fulfilled what has been prescribed by RZI, and we are doing it, but clearly it is not enough. Obviously it's not enough because the last two or three days there's only one case, I don't know if it means that this peak is falling and there won't be any new cases and an increase in these cases. It is clear to me, as well as to the worried parents, that more measures should be taken that RZI should prescribe and not run away from the problem. Clearly and categorically, along with the municipal authorities to solve people's problems and these problems must be solved. Your response will not appease the residents. They state that they will not put their children at that risk and will not allow them to go to school, which is very serious as a problem and will most likely lead to a failure of the school year. I don't think that's what we want. It will also lead to more diseased, as in addition to what is available on Rakovski Municipality's website, which is quite comical, because most of the patients are prescribed and given advice on safe sex I think is unacceptable. This shows that the problem on the part of RZI is taken lightly because what is published on the website of the municipality is precisely by prescription of RZI. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u63	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u64	I'll be very brief. I am convinced, and I think you are convinced, Mr. Turnovalyski, that neither the Ministry of Health nor its territorial structures, including regional health inspections, are running out of responsibility. I have read you the measures we have taken, including concrete, informational. If we can improve our work further, we will, but we must believe that we have put this problem behind us. As for diseases in these neighborhoods or areas where hepatitis C really has made a boom, I suggest that those parents who are very worried hold a little more for the hygiene of their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u65	Thank you for your answer, Dear Minister. The next question is asked by the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Anelia Klisarova, Georgi Gokov and Ilian Timchev about the number of university hospitals in the country. Here you are, dear Professor. Klisarova, to ask the question to the Minister of Health
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u66	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I ask this question because the university hospitals in Bulgaria are already 37. I asked myself: do these university hospitals correspond to the number of students? According to the MES, the students for 2017/2018 school year of medicine are 10 247, distributed in six courses. If we make an arithmetical account, we divide the number of students by the number of hospitals, it falls to a hospital of 277 students. These students are first through sixth grade. In the first and second year we all know that students do not attend for practical exercises medical institutions or this happens very rarely. If we do another statistic, 36 hospitals of six Faculty of Medicine in Bulgaria, i.e. every faculty has six universities accredited hospitals. You will say that this guarantees quality, but unfortunately these hospitals are wrongly distributed and for example in Stara Zagora at the university, the Faculty of Medicine has an accredited only one university hospital. Is it appropriate and appropriate for every medical school to have an accredited 6-7 university hospitals? Yes, you will reply to me. They are accredited, they have passed accreditation and with this the law has been respected. The law has been respected, so I ask: is it appropriate? In addition, I must emphasise that some of the university hospitals have also been created scientific advice. In these scientific advices, although some of these hospitals did not even have students, I have to say that these scientific advices have the rights of any scientific advice, as is the Law on the Development of the Academic Board, and are entitled to professors, doctorates and PhDs. So my question is: what is MH's policy on university hospitals? More importantly: are more new ones planned for next year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u67	Thank you, Professor. Klisarova. Here you are, Minister, to answer the question what is the policy regarding university hospitals?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u68	Honourable President, Members of the Parliament, Vice-President of the Commission. Klisarova and all the other importers of the matter! One of the main priorities in the policy that the Ministry of Health has carried out in recent years is support, the development of human capital in the field of health. In this regard, investing in education and training of health professionals has a leading role to play. University hospitals are medical institutions to which the legislator has granted special status. The definition of a hospital for university implies the realization of a fact composition involving several elements. On the one hand, the relevant medical institutions or their clinics or wards must have received a very good or excellent accreditation assessment for the clinical training activities of students and PhD students in medicine, dentists and pharmacy, clinical training of students in specialties from the professional field of health care, postgraduate training of doctors, dentists, pharmacists, health professionals, according to art. 90 of the Medical Services Act. It is important to note that these hospitals acquire the rights of university hospitals and clinics or wards for the duration of the accreditation assessment. On the other hand, a reasoned request from the relevant university rector, in agreement with the head of the medical establishment, is needed. In this regard, the definition of a hospital for university implies an interaction between the priorities of education and the health system. For a reason workers in medical institutions who have acquired the quality of university hospitals may conclude an additional employment contract for carrying out teaching activities at the higher school for a specified period, according to art. 73 of the Law on Medical Institutions. Finally, I would like to point out that increasing the number of university hospitals is the result of cooperation between the health and education system aimed at providing both basic knowledge and skills and professional knowledge, skills and competences related to the exercise of the medical profession or specialty. Indeed, university hospitals are 37, your information is correct. With me, ever since I joined the Ministry of Health, there's been no proposal for another new university hospital.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u69	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Professor. Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I want to thank you for your answer. Absolutely accurate, clear and specific also in relation to the Law on Medical Institutions and to the Law on Higher Education, but in the Law on Medical Institutions there is one article. 62 as of 2015, when the amendment was made: The Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Health, shall grant to the relevant university the rights of the sole owner of capital in the management of state hospitals, which are university hospitals, according to art. 90, para. 2 for the duration of their accreditation assessment. If we decide to comply with this Law, I do not think that there will be so many university hospitals in the country, and therefore I would like to ask at least on the Board of Directors of University Hospitals to have a representative from the academic director or other representative from the academic board of directors who is in charge of medical work. This will lead to a better collaboration between the university and the hospital and will be able to create conditions for the development of the academic staff. One more thing. I know that in certain structures it is difficult to develop every professional direction, every medical specialty in a hospital, so I would suggest that the hospital not be accredited as university, but that we can also have the right to accredit certain clinics that are necessary for the education of young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u71	Thank you, dear Professor. Klisarova. You don't want a double, dear Minister. Allow me to thank you for the first participation in the parliamentary control of the newly elected Minister of Health. Let's wish him luck! We continue with a question to Mr. Neno Dimov, Minister of Environment and Water, who will answer a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev about restoring the work of the regional waste depot near the village of Bratovo, Burgas municipality. Here you go, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u72	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! As a result of the water disaster of October 25th of this year in the municipalities of Burgas and Kameno, the waste dump near the village of Bratovo was flooded Within a few days, the dike was reconstructed, as well as the lining of the depot wall. On November 1st of this year, on national media, you state the following: "For the recovery of the drainage system and the processing of waste, it will take one month. In this regard, my two questions are also. The first is: at what stage are the restoration works in the depot, namely the drainage system, the cleaning of drainage ditches, the restoration of internal communications, will the landfill begin to accept waste from 1 December this year, as you said at the beginning of the month? My second question is: what action will the Ministry of Environment and Water take and the regional inspection in Burgas respectively? What measures for implementation and prevention will you prescribe to Burgas Municipality in order to prevent future environmental disaster in the region? As you know, in the first few days of the flood, there was such a danger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u73	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Come in for an answer, Dear Minister Dimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u74	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Tishev! On the day of disaster, as well as two days later, I personally visited Burgas and the regional landfill for household waste. On the spot, together with the mayor of Burgas Municipality, the director of the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection and the director of the Swimming Directorate of the Black Sea Region, we got acquainted with the situation caused by heavy rains. We have taken timely action at municipal and national level aimed at tackling the consequences and preventing the significant environmental impact due to flooding and suspending the work of the regional waste management system. I asked the operator of the depot to present a plan for the repair and construction works to address the consequences of the heavy rains. It gives me the 30-day deadline you're quoting and I've announced. Following a report prepared by me and the Minister of Health to ensure the treatment of waste from the nine municipalities in the region of Burgas, Decision No 660 of 31 October 2017 of the Council of Ministers was adopted, setting out sites for temporary storage of waste. In the implementation of an approved plan of the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection for the restoration of the normal operation of the regional system, the following repair activities and construction works have been carried out in order to remove the effects of the pouring rains: the bay of the cage is strengthened and its recovery activities are to be carried out; the roads, sites, installations and drainage ditches from the landslide mass are cleaned; the temporary route to cage No 1 and the drainage layer of the cell is restored; the waste water treatment tanks of the local waste water treatment plant and the sewerage shafts at the site are cleaned; the removal of the blasting system to the pumping plant is continued; the cleaning of the fallen land masses in the repherical pool and the restoration activities of the digas, as well as the correction of the water opening area of the plant; the tank is still being cleaned and the pumping compartment for the drainage and the technical water is restored for the draining of the draining basins and water. The deadline for restoring the work of the regional system according to the presented by RIEW Burgas is 30 November 2017 and there are currently no significant delays and no information to be implemented. We have also undertaken preventive actions related to the update of municipal and regional disaster protection plans of Burgas Municipality and Burgas in particular floods, including specific measures and actions concerning the regional waste management system. In addition, under the conditions of the complex operating permit, the operator has developed an emergency planning instruction for accidents, including floods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u75	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u76	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dimov, thank you for the answer to the first question. I am glad that what was stated to the Bulgarian citizens, and especially to the citizens of Burgas, will be respected, that is, on 1 December the depot will again accept waste. In relation to the second question, however, I think you have quite briefly developed the issue. I have not heard any concrete measures that will ensure prevention in the future. It is good that there is a correction of the plans, but still, if there is a little more information, because this concerns, you said yourself, not only the municipality of Burgas, but about nine municipalities that also deposit their waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u77	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Here you are, dear Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u78	Dear Mr. Tishev! If we are talking specifically about the depot, we believe that with these nine sites, which we temporarily made with the decision of the Council of Ministers, we have solved the particular situation and by 1 December, I hope, at least, that the information I have so far, will be transported from there and properly processed into the depot itself. When we talk about prevention in the future, in fact the big difference between the municipality of Burgas and the municipality of Kameno is in the early warning system, which worked in one place, and the other is not yet existing. Unfortunately, the National System has recently issued a judgment of the court, literally this week, with which it returns the procedure to the beginning and will have to be started again. One of the priorities for air cleanliness is perhaps what I have declared the most important priority. A second priority, which I have pointed out, that I want to get this system to the end, because this system is for water management as a whole, but in particular for an early warning that we have seen that it can save lives, and not only lives. In practice, in my opinion, this is the main measure. Cleaning the troughs for which mayors are responsible within the municipalities and district governors outside them is an activity that is carried out in places more successfully, in places less successfully, the control that needs to be exercised. These are things that you and I know, and there's no point in repeating them. For me, the key is to move towards this water management system in general and in particular risk management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-24.u79	Thank you, Dear Minister Dimov. This was the last question of today's parliamentary control. I adjourned the sitting by announcing the next meeting on 29 November 2017 at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
