ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u1	I'm opening the meeting, there's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, we are continuing with today's agenda. New questions. No messages. Colleagues, the first item of today's agenda is: PROJECT OF A DECISION FOR THE PRE-DELIVERY OF BORISOV BORISCHEV, BY AN ENTREPRESENTATIVE OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING PASSED BY A group of Members of the National Assembly. On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we are submitting a draft decision for the early release of Dimitar Borisov Glavchev from the position of President of the National Assembly with motives to him. Here you go, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor by procedure because I have just submitted my resignation to the National Assembly's Office, so it should only be announced in the Chamber and there is no point in this point that we have just begun. With this, I think that we at GERB demonstrate a different, double archin can call it you, when there is some problem, we immediately react, unlike others. Once again, I say: I will not explain myself at all what I have done, as I think I have done absolutely within the framework of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. Consider that this is once again a moral act, as is any resignation, of course, a moral act, and thus I want to restore the normal parliamentary environment in this House and in no way cast a shadow on the upcoming Presidency, as you see what efforts are being made, the government is working well, the situation is good. I believe that I, as a former first among equals, should set an example for the restoration of parliamentaryism in the National Assembly. I thank everyone we have worked with and those who support me, and those who do not, it is normal, there is opposition and rulers. Well, that's it. [[The National Representatives of GERB and OP become right. Long applause by GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Glauchev. I, too, would like to thank Mr. Glauchev for his work as President of the National Assembly. He was a worthy colleague, a worthy chairman, first among equals. Thank you, Mr. Glauchev. I will read you the application by Mr. Glauchev, MP from the 23rd Election Region Sofia: "Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 5, para. 1, t. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I declare that I wish to be released in advance as President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Respectfully: Dimitar Borisov Glavchev. Colleagues, according to the Staff Regulations. 5, t. 1, the President and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly may be early released: first, at their request. Given that Mr. Glauchev has declared his wish to be released, we are moving on to para. 3, which says: in the cases under para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 the release shall be announced without discussing and voting. Here you are, Mr. Tsvetanov, for a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u4	Let's put some order in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As a matter of fact, I was not prepared to make a statement today, but in relation to the personal act of the previous President of the National Assembly Dimitar Glauchev, I am obliged to do so as chairman of the largest parliamentary group in the Bulgarian Parliament. I would like to say to everyone, because the MPs were also unaware of the last hour of what were the talks held at the Conference of Presidents. I would like to thank you for the fact that Mr. Glauchev today made an extraordinary Presidency Council, which is attended by the Prime Minister and Chairman of the largest political power in Bulgaria Mr. Borisov. The conversation was as frank as possible between all chairmen of parliamentary groups. Each of the parliamentary groups put forward their arguments about whether to go to Dimitar Glauchev's resignation or to create a hard core to protect the person and the President of the Bulgarian Parliament Dimitar Glauchev. We all know that the President of the Bulgarian Parliament is first among equals, we all know that the President of the Bulgarian Parliament is the one who should create the necessary atmosphere and be able to actually keep our country stable, the parliament to work, and to be able to have the strong opinion of both the parliamentary majority and the Bulgarian opposition. Of course, in the last few weeks, there have been deliberate attempts to seek provocation. I would not like to be an evaluator of the events that took place just a few days ago, but the decision made by the President of the Bulgarian Parliament to release the President of the largest opposition party from plenary created the real feeling that today's majority is trying to suppress or limit the possibility of freedom that MPs from the Bulgarian opposition should have. I can definitely state that it has never, on any occasion, been discussed in the parliamentary group, nor has the President shared such signals in order to limit anyone's opinion. He has always adhered to and respected the Rules of Procedure and the organisation of the National Assembly. However, the situation today is quite different, and wisdom must always be the leader here and the state that should always be our priority in making every decision. I can say that the formation of the parliamentary majority was of the opinion not to resign Dimitar Glauchev and to reject it. But we also heard arguments from the opposition who said that they would not participate in parliamentary activity and will only participate selectively in two or three bills that are important to them and that they believe they will be able to stand up for their principled political position. But we are all witnessing what is happening at the moment and the preparation of the Bulgarian Parliament, which also has a parliamentary dimension with the respective Presidency, and what the Bulgarian government should have as a commitment with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and the relevant ministers and the talks to be held and the visits to be made in Bulgaria by members of the European Commission and of the Council. Of course, the President of the European Parliament is expected to address the National Assembly in the Bulgarian Parliament next week. We would not like to imagine giving a signal that half of the plenary will be empty and the President of the European Parliament will decide on important priorities for the European Council and for the European Parliament. What my colleague Glauchev has done today is an act which I think everyone should appreciate well enough here and, of course, we should bear in mind what is the position of the largest parliamentary group, what is the position of the President of the Bulgarian Parliament and, of course, each one, when speaking or putting the relevant ultimatums, should also bear in mind what he does when he is in a similar situation. We would not like to condemn the behaviour of anyone or the decision of any parliamentary group, but let this resignation of colleague Dimitar Glavchev be without speculation! He does it only and only led by the national interest, he does it only to restore the normal state and performance of the Bulgarian Parliament so that both the strong voice of the parliamentary majority and the opposition can be heard. Let this act of the President of the Bulgarian Parliament be a very clear signal for everyone: we from the parliamentary group of GERB and the parliamentary majority do not want to be discredited by the Bulgarian institution Parliament! We of the parliamentary majority do not wish to have personal attacks from this tribune to anyone. And let us really, with what was also a conversation by the Conference of Presidents, each of us as presidents of the respective parliamentary groups, make sure that we actually stand up for our principled position in each parliamentary group, defend these, but do so in a manner consistent with the sectoral policies given, but not enter into these personal attacks that actually discredit the Bulgarian Parliament and discredit each of the parties. Believe that in today's situation there are no winners, we are all losers because the very fact that we are discussing the resignation of the President of the Bulgarian Parliament only six months after we have formed a stable majority and a functioning Parliament, and for the first time we will be presiding over the European Union...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u6	It's pretty solid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u7	I think that each of us should be responsible enough. We have shown that we can be responsible and Dimitar Glauchev showed something that few would do. He resigned only and only led by the national interest and led by the real parliamentaryism that should be held in the Bulgarian Parliament. Thank you, Comrade Glauchev, we will always be with you! Thank you for what you did because you put the country ahead of everything else that could provoke additional tensions in the Bulgarian Parliament! I also thank my opposition colleagues for also finding the strength to return to plenary. Let us not repeat what we have spoken over these few months and let everyone contribute to the authority of Bulgaria and to the strong performance of our country in the upcoming Presidency! Bulgaria above all! Thank you. [[Wurthy applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u8	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. On behalf of the group Mrs. Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Glauchev's decision today was inevitable and correct. But today's decision is also a bitter lesson for the entire political class and especially for the ruling majority. Lesson on the fact that it is normal in the rule of law to have government and opposition, that it is normal to be of different opinions, because we represent here different groups of Bulgarian society, that it is normal to have freedom of speech and mutual respect of different positions. But the end of Mr. Glauchev's presidency is also an opportunity for a new beginning. It is a challenge to all of us, it is a test of political maturity, whether we are ready to launch a new beginning of parliamentaryism; whether we are ready to debate here on the substance and with arguments; whether we are ready to restore constitutional principles, that in the parliamentary republic the supreme authority of government is the parliament and executive authority, from whomever it is represented, is broadcast by this Parliament and is controlled by this Parliament; whether we are ready to ensure not only in this House but in the whole Bulgarian society freedom of opinion, differences and mutual respect for these differences. That's what we're up against today. And hopefully with these few sentences we've been reading since this morning, let's call off the current style of parliament work. We heard this morning that BSP wants me to tear down the state. No, honourable Members, we want to restore the rule of law, the Constitution and statehood. Maybe we're really losing to what happened, like Mr. Tsvetanov said, but he's winning the right order and democracy. We from BSP for Bulgaria will be a guarantee for the Bulgarian citizens to feel free, to have an opinion, to defend it and to fight for their positions. I believe that we, as a political class, will start this, change the tone and raise parliamentaryism in a higher form of government of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u10	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are not discussing the Parliamentary Representative Dimitar Glauchev, we are discussing the institution President of the National Assembly. The main concern of the President of the National Assembly is to work to raise the authority of parliament, to work against hatred, aggression, xenophobia, division and opposition. The President of the National Assembly is called to be first among equals, to be a bearer of morals and values that make us an integral part of the European family. A whole democratic Europe is working against hatred, division, opposition, condemning xenophobia, nationalisms and radicalisms. Everything else is against Europe, against Bulgaria, against constitutionalism and democracy! We highly appreciate Mr. Glauchev's personal act with his resignation. We call on the next President of the National Assembly to be at the level of the requirements of the institution "President of the National Assembly in a parliamentary republic," according to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u12	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Any other affidavits? Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u13	Madam President, honourable Members! We would like to welcome what Mr. Glauchev did and the gesture he gave, but to take advantage of the double archin, which looks at all the actions and all the gestures of each person, and we of the Volya.We are one of the most victims, and to use the tone and the way the question has been asked to come to this whole case. Yeah, the fact is, Mr. Glauchev may have, in connection with the tension, been very nervous. However, he could in the same way that you welcome, come out and say a dry excuse! And I would like to ask you, fellow Members of all parliamentary groups, do you like to be called by one of your colleagues - 80% of you - debilitating?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u14	Come on, come on!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u15	I'd like to ask the people behind the cameras, the people who are currently our guests, do you like to be called 80% of you?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u16	That's not the debate!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u17	I would especially like to address the group of BSP and the political party BSP about 25-27 or 30% of Bulgarian citizens voted for you. Let's assume that for all the other parliamentary parties, these 80% retards voted, but it turns out that some of the Bulgarian citizens who voted for you, including your colleague, who called us that, also voted for such Bulgarian citizens. Are we gonna take attitude? We'll go with a dry one. Excuse me...................... we'll maintain this language of hatred, of caste division, of a higher caste, which considers itself more than the Bulgarian people. We have led her to the point that at a time when, during your reign and your rule, the Bulgarian people have been slaving, brought to misery. Two million Bulgarians are below the poverty line and under your rule are brought to this state, and you call them Debs. We from the Parliamentary Group of Volja will not participate in any meeting and will always leave the Chamber until Mr. Ivo Hristov resigns from the Bulgarian Parliament and [[noise and applause from DPS and GERB]] in the Bulgarian Parliament there are no people who insult the Bulgarian people, regardless of who they voted for, regardless of the sympathizer of which political power it is. Thank you and I hope for the right gestures from each parliamentary group. We from Volja will never allow ourselves to insult any Bulgarian citizen, whether he is sympathetic to the ruling, opposition, extra-parliamentary parties, whether we like it or not. Every Bulgarian citizen has the right to express his opinion and we respect every one of them, regardless of who he voted for, whether he supports us or not. Thank you and I really hope for new moral gestures. Thank you. [[(Applause by.. ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u18	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Colleagues, we are continuing with yesterday's Bill.. Second vote of the IDC of the Ministry of Interior Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u19	Put order in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u20	Do you have a procedure for order in this room? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u21	Rest, best rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u22	Madam President, bring order to the Chamber. Otherwise, we will comment on the chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u23	Colleagues, we are continuing with the second vote of the VID of the Ministry of Interior Act................................................................................................ Mr. Tsvetanov, come on in. Please, colleagues, take your seats in the hall! My colleague, independent, please sit in the place that's been assigned. Please, mate! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u24	Madam President, before we begin the adoption of the amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act to vote on the admission of Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u25	He's had one since yesterday.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u26	I don't see him in the hall, so the Quaestors can invite him in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u27	Yeah, invite him in. Mr. Tsvetanov, only the procedural rules for the election of the President of the 44th National Assembly came, so we will continue with the Bill a little later. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to include the following additional points in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly: Draft decision for the adoption of procedural rules for the election of the President of the 44th National Assembly, importer of Tsvetan Tsvetanov, to become the first point for today's meeting. Election of the President of the 44th National Assembly to become point two for today's sitting. Please vote regime. Vote 179 MPs: 177, against and abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We move on to the so-called first point for today: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR THE SELECTION OF A FOURTHRIDESTE PRESIDENT AND FOUR PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING. Importer "Tsvetan Tsvetanov." "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly we submit a draft decision adopting procedural rules for the election of the President of the 44th National Assembly. Please order the submission and examination of the draft decision in accordance with the established order. Importer "Tsvetan Tsvetanov." Project! DECISION adopting procedural rules for the election of the President of the 44th National Assembly The National Assembly, on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 5, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt procedural rules for the election of the President of the 44th National Assembly as follows: 1. Candidates for the President of the National Assembly may be raised by the parliamentary groups registered in the 44th National Assembly and by the MPs. 2. The vote is clearly also in alphabetical order of the proposed candidates. It shall be carried out through the computerised voting system. 3. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present MPs has been elected. If, in the first vote, one of the candidates does not receive the necessary majority, a second vote shall be cast, involving two candidates who have received the most votes. The candidate who received most of the votes has been selected. Statements to the so- proposed procedural rules? I won't. I'm putting to the vote the rules of procedure. Vote 179 MPs: for 179, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal to interrupt the meeting for 15 minutes, because we still need to move to point two for the election of a chair and this is the right of a group of MPs or the chairmen of parliamentary groups to make the relevant proposal. So I think it is more reticent within 15 minutes so that each of the parliamentary groups can build up their position and be ready for the relevant proposals that can be made. If this procedure is accepted, please rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u29	No vote. 15 minutes rest. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u30	Colleagues, we're moving on. Please take your seats. Quaestors, invite the MPs to the Chamber. Moving on to the point: SELECTION OF THE PRESENT OF FOURTHRIDES AND FOUR FOUR PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Mr. Tsvetanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB, we propose as President of the Bulgarian Parliament Tsveta Valcheva Karayancheva, born 25 February 1968 in the town of Velcheva. Bolyarovo. She graduated from the Technical University of Sofia. She has also worked as a municipal councillor at the Municipal Council of Kardzhali. Since 2009 he has been a Member of the Parliament. He is actively involved in the legislative work of the Economic, Regional and Agricultural Commission. As Vice-President of the Bulgarian Parliament she has been elected since 2017. We believe that this is a worthy application. During all her years as a Member of the National Assembly, she has always dealt with the relevant legislative activity and made good proposals for decisions in certain situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Any other suggestions? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u33	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! We are going to vote on the proposed election of President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly for Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva. Please vote. Vote 212 MPs: 138 against 3, abstention 71. The motion is accepted. Ms. Tsveta Karayancheva is elected President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Congratulations, Mrs. Karayancheva! [[(Applause from the parliamentary groups of GERB, DPS, United Patriots.]] Dear colleagues, we proceed to the oath of the newly elected President of the National Assembly Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva. [[Everyone gets up.]] Mrs. Karayancheva, please repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u34	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[(Applause from the parliamentary groups of GERB, DPS,]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u35	Ms. Karayancheva, you have the floor to address the MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honored guests! First of all, I would like to thank you for the honour they have given me with the nomination by my parliamentary group. Thank you all for supporting me. And thank you to those who didn't support me. I'll work so we can all feel equal. Here is the hall where the different opinions should be said. Here we have to say everything, but it has to be based on policies, not on personal attacks, because we are politicians, we are people chosen here to represent certain areas of the state. Each Member of the National Assembly represents certain voters, and each one of these Members of the National Assembly must be respected. However, when personality sparks fly, when the tone comes out of the good frames, someone must also suppress that emotion. And the job of the President of the National Assembly is exactly this. There will probably sometimes be emotional moments, but we need to be wise, we need to be forward-looking, because what lies ahead for us in the next few months is a rare chance that we only get after 10 years of membership in the European Union. Therefore, colleagues, I appeal to everyone: let us be wise, humble, let us say our opinions and defend our own, but always think of Bulgaria! I hope I can justify your trust. Good luck to you all! Thank you. [[Applause from all parliamentary groups. Exchange of Chairs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u37	My fellow Members, I will make an announcement: I propose on the grounds of art. 48, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be adopted as follows: ? RESPONSIBILITY? The National Assembly shall hold an extraordinary plenary session on 21 November 2017, Tuesday, at 14.45 with the following Agenda: Point one. Address of the President of the European Parliament Mr. Antonio Tajani to the National Assembly. Please vote. Vote 202 MPs: for 199, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, at 11.00 we will continue to debate on questions to Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov. [[The President Tsveta Karayancheva received congratulations from the MPs.]] (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u38	Dear Members of the National Assembly, on the agenda for today we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. There are no new requests for the period from 10 November to 16 November 2017. Written responses were received from: - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Polina Hristova; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question of the MPs Philip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on two issues from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Aleksandar Sabanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Chavdar Velinov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov. These were written answers. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, come in. We continue with the item on the agenda: DISCLOSURES BY THE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE GEORGI GEOKOV TO THE DEMOGRAPHIC AND DEMOGRAPHIC PROCEEDING MINISTER FOR THE DEMOGRAPHIC PROBLEM OF THE COUNTRY'S DEMOGRAPHIC AND DEMOGRAPHIC POLICY Mr. Gokov, come in. You have 10 minutes available, try to fit into the regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u39	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of Parliament! We have put to your attention an extremely serious and acute issue..... the demographic catastrophe in Bulgaria. Along with desperate poverty and fracking inequalities, this may be the most crucial issue for Bulgaria and overcoming the negative consequences and trends of it is vital for our country. Strategies, plans, statistics, reports, analyses and whatnot, of world, European and Bulgarian official institutions, of experts and corals in the field, and so on, show that the demographic problem is European. The statistics being drawn are being exported rather, and the size of the problem is extremely disturbing. The population of our continent is dramatically decreasing and the trends are towards deepening the crisis. Europe has a demographic problem, but it manages to solve it more successfully than Bulgaria. We need to be aware that our nation is melting at the fastest pace of every passing year in the world. As a people, as a nation, we have a lot of problems, but our biggest problem is the demographic disaster. But are we aware, and do we realize what the size of this catastrophe is, and that soon, very soon, there will be no going back?! The beginning of demographic problems in Bulgaria dates back to intensive industrialization and urbanization processes in Bulgaria. This leads to migration from the village to the city, but the bigger problem is that it leads to a change in the behavior and lifestyle of millions of Bulgarian citizens and even worse changes their value system, which affects their demographic behavior and affects the future model of the family in Bulgaria. However, by the middle of the last century, the population grew between 1.5% and 2 per cent on average, and this was not only because of the high birth rates, the average children in the family, but also because of the emigration of refugees from other Balkan countries to Bulgaria and this continued until 1989. From 1989 to 2013, in just 25 years, the population of Bulgaria decreased from nearly 9 million to just over 7 million. During this short period Bulgaria decreased by about 2 million Bulgarians by nearly 20%, i.e. on average about 70 thousand Bulgarians per year, as if every year the population of a large city by our standards disappeared, a large city was removed from the map of Bulgaria, and all without any serious reasons such as war, mass epidemic, natural cataclysms or something like that. At the end of 2016, according to data from the Statistical Institute, we are 7 million 101 thousand and 859 Bulgarians, and experts say that we are even less about 6 million and 700 thousand. If at the end of the last century and the first years of the present, the decline of the Bulgarian population is mainly due to a strong negative migration balance, then in recent years it is definitely due to the negative values in its natural growth. This is defined by experts as a landfill. Bulgaria is among the countries in the world with the lowest birth rate. According to data from the Statistical Institute, the number of live births in 2015 was 65 950 or the birth rate was 9.2. In 2016 we almost scored historical anti-cord for at least born children during the year, since statistics on this indicator in Bulgaria. The lively children this year are 64 984, which means we are slightly over 1997, which holds the first place in a negative ranking for at least born 64 125. In addition, Bulgaria has the highest mortality rate in the European Union and the lowest life expectancy. The main reason for this is socially significant diseases of cardiovascular, diabetes, hypertension, heart attacks, strokes and malignancies. Huge money is being spent on health care with no visible results. We have the worst health care in Europe. The second reason is the difficult access to already poor health care of the lowest income groups. Problem is, about 20% of the population doesn't have health insurance. This group does not use the services of a personal physician, does not conduct preventive examinations and does not have the resources to pay the medical services. The rest of the population, regardless of its health insurance, pays for health services by personal means and in size unseen and unheard of for Europe. Prevention, hospital care, child care, maternal and school healthcare, adapted training of doctors-specialists in relation to morbidity in the country and in regions, the development of alternative outpatient care is totally missing or not at the necessary level, although they are a prerequisite and conditions that can lead to positive results in terms of health and life expectancy. A problem is also the ageing of the population. A small contribution to the depopulation of Bulgaria and the ageing of the population has also been made. For one reason or another, nearly two million people were forced to emigrate to seek employment abroad. This is a serious problem and why a Member State of the European Union allows this to happen is the subject of serious analyses and debates. The fact that more than a million and two hundred and fifty thousand of them are young, educated people whose education, qualification and preparation our country has devoted to the accounts of experts, more than 120 billion. lv. All people of working age who are the life force of the nation and the state fails to keep them working for Bulgaria. The population reduction in Bulgaria is accompanied by another negative phenomenon with the concentration of population in the six largest cities in Bulgaria: Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna, Burgas, Ruse and Stara Zagora. There already live over 35% of the Bulgarians, and uneven distribution becomes a problem for the effective absorption of resources in a large part of the territory of Bulgaria, which is virtually depopulated. In recent years, the rate of population decline has dropped slightly to around 0.4% a year, but not because of any special measures by the government, but because of the reduced emigration, because there is no demographic resource for it anymore. There is no doubt that the picture is apocalyptic and Bulgaria emerges as a country with the worst demographic indicators in the European Union. It is clear that we are champions at the rate of population reduction and all forecasts do not give us a shred of reason for optimism. For the ethnic structure of the Bulgarian population neither then nor now, I think and I want to ask the question, because nearly 50% of the newborn Bulgarians in recent years are not ethnic Bulgarians, which is again a serious problem and will lead to a moment where it will be difficult to claim that this is a Bulgarian state. It really becomes the issue of the physical existence of the Bulgarian state, because in the middle of this century its population will have a radically different, and even religious structure and appearance, and all this at the expense of the Bulgarian ethnicity. There is no one who is not aware that Bulgaria is in danger and it is imperative that measures be taken to mitigate and subsequently overcome the problem. There is no sober-minded person who is unaware that without urgent, albeit late measures, we are facing even more dramatic social and economic problems. The rapidly declining population becomes a problem and is a prerequisite for slowing down the pace for our social and economic development, for the development of the internal market and for the inability to provide labour for our economy. In many areas of the Bulgarian economy there are difficulties in recruiting labour and there will be even greater in the future. You should be aware, honourable Members, that the demographic problem is a threat. It is a threat to our national security because it inevitably leads to a weakening of the state in political, economic and certainly military terms. A threat to our economy and our development because of the serious current and, above all, future problems in providing labour for our economy. Threatening our social system because of the ageing population and increasing social payments through the budget, which will make it difficult and difficult for our economic growth. A threat due to a reduction in our scientific, economic, creative, cultural and any other potential. In demographic policy, there are, of course, no quick decisions, but it is necessary to take them in time, consistent and targeted, mostly decisive, nothing that is relatively late, if even unpopular solutions and measures that effectively affect negative trends that worsen demographic characteristics, and the results will expect to occur at the earliest in about ten years. If you will call me black-eyed and prejudiced, I do not see such measures being implemented by the government, or if any, they do not give the expected results. We can talk for hours about the consequences of the demographic crisis and disaster, the point is, we don't just stay talking. From the answer to my question from Mr. Deputy Prime Minister I felt his concern, but I did not get the impression of a complete adequacy of the measures taken as long as they were present at all. I didn't get the impression that you knew what you were doing in the jungle of this department. However, I was under the impression that the government is now trying to solve the problem of the demographic crisis by causing an emigrant flow to Bulgaria from third countries initially as a labour force by facilitating the employment of foreigners in the Bulgarian economy and subsequently by giving Bulgarian citizenship. I do not criticise these measures, as long as the Bulgarian labour market is not threatened, i.e. such mechanisms are built to guarantee jobs primarily for Bulgarians. In addition, I do not think that this approach will work because Bulgaria cannot currently provide attractive working conditions and pay to attract truly qualified labour. Bulgaria will simply be used as an intermediate stop on the way to Europe. There is no policy to promote birth rates. What can we boast about in this direction? With attractive benefits...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u40	Mr. Gokov, the time for presentation is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u41	One more minute... [[Replying from the O.P.: "Search! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u42	We could include taking account of the group's time so that you can present the solution. [[Replications from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u43	There is no policy to promote birth rates. What can we boast about in this direction? With attractive benefits and social benefits in childbirth and raising? With an adequate tax policy towards young families? With huge salaries of young people starting in their work? No! We're a long way from the truth. That is why we are worse than other countries in Europe. The truth is that we do not have a clearly defined and effective demographic policy and if we do have it at all, it is wrong. And for a solution in our demographics, we need a radically different policy from the one we've had before. It must be effective, complex, targeted, consensual, state policy through its bodies and social institutions, or policy by the National Assembly, expressed in adequate legislative decisions. I will not miss that we have an updated national strategy for demographic development of the population in the Republic of Bulgaria. I think that if we go from this to carrying out strategy activities, we can be condescending and say with half a mouth: "Yes! " because they are formally certainly really being implemented. With this strategy measures are being taken, however, which do not give the desired result, so the demographic crisis in Bulgaria is no longer a crisis, but a disaster in the context of the near and further future of our country. And the results of the strategy in two words are: from day to day better, from year to year worse. Even the deputy prime minister of demographic politics can't say there's been any visible progress, because the facts disprove it. Therefore, if we have respect for ourselves as an institution, we must recognise that the strategy does not work and we need something else more effective to create ideological, legal, financial and social prerequisites for the activation of such measures and programmes concerning birth rates and families, health and life expectancy of people, emigration and immigration, and a number of other aspects of ascending demographic development. Therefore, as the first steps in this direction by the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, we propose to the National Assembly that the Council of Ministers should be entrusted by 15 December 2017. Think of this, Mr President, as an editorial amendment in the proposal for a decision to draft and submit to the National Assembly documents mentioned in the proposal for the decision to be voted on. I am waiting for a valuable and adequate debate on the problem because it is really serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u44	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. This was the presentation of the proposal for debate and the draft decision by one of the importers. I am obliged to announce the time of the groups distributed under art. 105 of our Rules and the rules under which the debate and decision-making will take place. We are in a debate and decision-making procedure on a proposed project. One of the importers introduced us to the question. We continue with debates during a time defined for the parliamentary groups as follows: the parliamentary group of GERB. 19 minutes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. All 60 minutes of debate. The time Mr. Simeonov has at his request is outside this hour of debate. I remind you of the debates only on the subject of the questioning and its response. Proposals for amendments to the proposed decisions may be made. After the debate is over, we will proceed to the vote on three submitted draft decisions, according to art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105 of the Rules of Procedure, according to their submission and these are: Draft decision submitted by 66 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, registered first at the time; Draft decision submitted by 6 MPs from the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group of Rights and Freedoms, registered as the next proposal; and in third place, Draft decision submitted by 10 MPs from the parliamentary group of the Political Party GERB. This is the procedure we're going to be working on today. Mr. Ademov, you have the floor for an opinion as an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Simeonov, I will present to you the draft decision submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Council of Ministers to develop and submit short-term and long-term measures to the National Assembly by 31 December 2017 within the framework of the updated national strategy for demographic development of the population in the Republic of Bulgaria 2012/ 2030. 2. The Council of Ministers shall, by 31 March 2018, submit to the National Assembly information on the implementation of the 2017 Plan of the updated national strategy for demographic development of the population in the Republic of Bulgaria. Dear colleagues, the most impressive definition of demographic policy is that demographics are policy policies. This is a multidisciplinary phenomenon with horizontal dimensions in all sectoral policies. In this discussion, it is particularly important to objectively assess the current problems, to identify the reasons that led to this disastrous situation and to identify measures to overcome today's unhappy demographic picture. The question is extremely important and up-to-date: who can implement the necessary policies? We believe that a successful demographic policy with a long horizon can conduct the system parties that are free from the temptation to ethnify this national problem, because the participation of final formations in decision-making related to demographics inevitably creates tension, uncertainty and discredits to a large extent the understanding that the Bulgarian nation represents a bouquet of ethnicities and that all born on this earth are and will be equal Bulgarian citizens. Demographic problem with events of crisis there is not only in Bulgaria, but throughout Europe, but the picture in Bulgaria differs significantly while in the European Union the population is ageing, in Bulgaria a second one is added to this negative indicator, namely that it is decreasing at a threatening rate. In the last 25 years the population in Bulgaria has decreased by about 2 million or about 80 thousand a year, which makes about 9-10 people per hour. At the end of 2016, the persons aged 65 and over are nearly a million and a half.. 20.7% of the population. The trend in reproduction of the laborable population is worrying. The ratio between the number of entering and exiting in and from working age shows that in 2016. 100 going out are replaced by 63 going in. Only 15 years ago this indicator was in a ratio of 100 to 124. In this startling picture, we are waiting for dramatic economic and social upheavals with serious fiscal pressure on public finances. What are the reasons behind this result, and with what policies and instruments can we change these adverse trends? First of all, low birth rate. It cannot be overcome only with financial incentives. It is controversial to encourage the trident model, provided that statistics account for a total fertility factor: fertile women at 2016 " 1.54. This indicator was 1,49 in 2010. If we do a thorough analysis of the birth rate chart and trends in dynamic order, we will see that the birth rate increases not when social benefits increase, but when there are expectations for economic and social stability. In other words, without serious economic growth on the basis of investment, without adequate income policy, without a normal functioning labour market, without effective reforms in education and healthcare, it is difficult to rely on a sharp leap in birth rates. Secondly, the high mortality rate of total, including infant and perinatal infant mortality. Increasing funding for the health sector, unfortunately, does not correspond to better health of the nation. Thirdly, the problem of emigration. Since 1990, the country's population has decreased by about 7% as a result of emigration. Emigrate the young, leak the educated, depopulate entire regions of the country. Dear colleagues, a targeted, meaningful discussion on policies has been initiated today in the hope of admitting that we have a frightening problem - a complex, severe demographic situation. It is our responsibility to adopt short-term and long-term measures, overparty, state-owned, with a high degree of agreement to have continuity, regardless of who will rule the country in the coming years. And last but not least, let us not forget that the measures we are taking today will result in ten years or more. We hope that you will support our draft decision, which has been drawn up with the intention of having more transparency and clarity of the measures taken, the report on their implementation and the results achieved. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u46	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. On the third project, will any of the importers take a stand to present it? Here's your opinion. This is a draft decision submitted by the parliamentary group of GERB party.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u47	And the United Patriarchs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u48	Yeah, and the United Patriarchs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u49	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I will present the draft decision signed by the MPs from the Parliamentary Group of GERB and the Parliamentary Group of............................. Bulgaria's demographic policy should be a national priority for decades to come. Demographic policy measures are complex and horizontal. They depend on the efforts of the government, all ministries, civil society organisations, social partners and can deliver results after years when the effects of the appropriate sectoral policies are accumulated. Three important proposals related to the provision of information in the National Assembly by the Council of Ministers on the policy for solving demographic problems in Bulgaria are put in place in the draft decision that we propose. Our first proposal is: The Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria shall, by 30 November 2017, submit to the National Assembly an Annual Report 2016 for the implementation of the updated national strategy for demographic development of the population in the Republic of Bulgaria 2012. The report was adopted at a meeting of the Council of Ministers on 15 November 2017. It provides a comprehensive framework for the complex actions and measures taken in response to the demographic challenges set out in the demographic strategy. In the context of the reduction and ageing of the population and of the workforce, there are reserves for achieving balanced demographic development not only in measures to increase birth rates, reduce mortality and prudent management of migration processes, but also in measures related to the development of human resource quality, increase qualification, improve education and health status, skills and mobility in the labour market. A key element in Bulgarian demographic policy is the development and improvement of quality characteristics of human capital, standard and quality of life. As positive trends in 2016 are noted: reduction of infant mortality; retention of the total fertility ratio at levels close to the average of the Member States of the European Union; reduction of the number of deceased persons and the total mortality rate; increase of the expected average life expectancy; improvement of the standard of living and quality of life. The review of the measures and activities undertaken and implemented in 2016 by the responsible institutions, civil organisations, social partners and the academic community in support of the implementation of the state demographic policy was carried out in 2016. It focuses on specific tasks, measures and activities to implement the strategic priorities that are undertaken and implemented in 12 main directions. Information from ministries, state and executive agencies, NOIs, NHIFs, NSIs, Eurostat, UN, the European Commission and others is included in the work. Our second proposal is related to the award of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria by 31 January 2018 to prepare and submit to the National Assembly a Report on the implementation of the activities under the measures and the overcoming of the demographic crisis in the Republic of Bulgaria by the Programme for the Management of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021. Why is this Report important? Because it will present comprehensive information on the implementation of the measures to limit negative demographic trends, including raising birth rates, reducing youth emigration, balanced immigration policy in line with the needs of the Bulgarian business, and mastering the negative demographic processes. The report will include information on the government's actions taken to implement the following objectives: 1. slowing down the negative demographic processes related to the reduction of population numbers, with a tendency to stabilize in the long term and ensuring a high quality of human capital; 2. creation of conditions for the birth, upbringing, upbringing and social realization of children in a predictable and secure family and social environment; 3. optimize the activities of the Center for Assisted Reproduction; 4. improving mother and child health; 5. promoting the active life of the elderly; 6. creating conditions for equality between women and men in all spheres of public, economic and political life; and last but not least, improve the effectiveness of the processes for providing Bulgarian citizenship, ensuring the selection and acceptance of immigrants who are able to integrate and implement in priority areas for the development and well-being of the country, including the use of the demographic potential of traditional Bulgarian communities abroad. Our third proposal: Instructs the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to prepare and present to the National Assembly a forecast for the demographic development of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2040. The forecast for population development by 2040 is necessary to identify and take precise, timely and adequate actions and to manage demographic processes related to population reduction and ageing, migration, ensuring sustainability of the social system, labour market, social security system, social assistance and care system, health care and education. Due to the highly inertial and difficult reversible nature of demographic changes and trends in Bulgaria, like many other countries in the European Union, the official forecasts for population development in the coming decades are not favorable. Therefore, it is extremely important to achieve a long-term political agreement to implement the measures identified to mitigate the negative demographic impacts on all spheres and areas of public life. The Institute for Study of the Population and Humanities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences implemented the project "Markets for overcoming the demographic crisis" as a leading contractor for the project commissioned by the Council of Ministers No 347 of 8 December 2016. According to the signed contract the project includes three stages. The aim of the project is to propose concrete measures to change the negative trends in Bulgaria's demographic development with regard to key processes affecting population reproduction and the formation of the contemporary demographic picture, birth rate, mortality, internal and external migration, to propose a scenario for the development of the population in the medium term, focusing on changes in the number of workers and proposing measures to optimize demographic reproduction, which are the basis of the research analyses and forecasts. Dear colleagues, the demographic problems in Bulgaria have been accumulated for decades. They cannot be solved in a few years......................................................................................................................................................................... When we talk about the demographic factor, we all need to make it clear that this is a 30-year-old policy. The issue that you have put for debate here in this House is serious and I hope that today we will hear and have a meaningful, expert debate, because this is important for the whole Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Dear Members of Parliament, we are going to debate on the questioning and the proposed drafts for a solution. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? At any time Mr. Simeonov can take the floor, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u51	I prefer it at the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u52	It's your right, Mr. Simeonov. Here you go, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u53	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! According to the forecasts of different institutions, the population of Bulgaria in 2020 will be below 7 million and in 2040. Some forecasts give a little more than 6, others a little less than 6. The time has passed when demographic policy was identified only by taking measures to increase birth rates. This policy is relevant to the whole life cycle of man, to the needs, to the expectations, to the problems at every stage of his life, and not just to the birth rate. In the context of continuing economic and social transformation in permanent and irreversible, at least over the next few decades, reducing and ageing the population, demographic debate must undoubtedly include not only the topic of birth, mortality and emigration, but also the topics related to quality of life, with the efficiency of the workforce. The updated national strategy for demographic development of the Republic of Bulgaria outlines 12 main demographic priorities. I will only list some of them: promoting birth rates by creating an environment for favourable birth, raising and raising children; improving the reproductive health of the population; improving general demographic awareness and sexual reproductive culture; improving the general health of the population and reducing the overall premature childhood and maternal mortality; developing adequate migration and immigration policies; developing a national concept of active adult life; and introducing a mandatory assessment of the impact on demographic development of the population and the quality of human capital of each new, amended or supplemented regulation of the state. This is what we accepted in the Forty - Third National Assembly. I would like to argue with one of the participants that healthcare in Bulgaria is not at the level and health care is much worse than in other European countries. No, it's not like that. The health care in Bulgaria is at European and world level. It is just that doctors do wonders with the smaller funds they have for both equipment and medicines and for work. I will give just one example: in 1960 the average life expectancy in Bulgaria was 65 years, in 2000 was 70, in 2012 was 74. This is thanks to health care and new technologies in it. With regard to the first direction, I would like to point out that for 2017, there is an established programme within the framework of the budget plan for family assistance for children, including over 5 million. $700,000. lv. Here are included all one-time benefits for pregnancy, for childbirth, for raising twins, for training and so on, as well as monthly benefits for raising a child, monthly benefits for raising until graduating from secondary education, and I would like to stress that most of these benefits are made regardless of income, that is, the beneficiaries are all Bulgarian citizens who meet the conditions. Other financial support represents benefits under the Code of Social Security for maternity, which is not a small amount and as an opportunity. Financial resources shall also be provided under the order of the Child Protection Act. The tax preferences in the Law on personal income taxes are also known: in one child, BGN 200, in two children - 400, in the case of three - 600. There are also tax preferences for children with disabilities. With regard to parental assistance, we also have legal conditions to encourage employers to create jobs and to employ unemployed people, single parents or mothers, adoptive parents of children. You know about the benefits of pregnant women under the Labor Code, vacations and so on. Regarding the education, health and social development of the children are provided preventive reviews within the National Health Insurance Fund, there is a special program "Child Health." In terms of improving the reproductive health of the population, medical care for pregnant women and mothers is provided, surveillance under the program "Mother's health" is provided. There are also preventive examinations in relation to children over 18 years of age. I have listed these measures to show that in terms of the regulatory provision of the implementation of the updated national demographic development strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria a lot has been done. Practically in all these 12 directions there are measures that are provided with a regulatory basis. Demographic changes are low birth rates, high mortality, population reduction and ageing, high migration flows have economic and financial implications and dimension. They have a direct impact on the sustainability of the economy, on the stability of social systems, the service, health and education, the system of social assistance. It is therefore important in the long term that there should be State intervention in terms of changing trends, because otherwise public finances would also be threatened. The directions in which work is to be done are: achieving high quality human capital, high productivity and productivity of labour, combined with income growth, high technology, innovation, economic development and production of high added value. In view of what has been said so far, I think it is appropriate to request information on the implementation of measures to overcome the demographic crisis and assess their effectiveness.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u54	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. Are there any lines to Mr. Toshev's statement? I won't. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u55	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will further develop the motives for our questioning from another perspective of demographic causes and problems in the country, from the perspective of what happens if we look at things from the regional position in our country. Whole regions are undoubtedly depopulated. This is what we all feel. Particularly this sounds with great power "Northwest is the poorest region in Bulgaria according to statistics of the European Union. This region is joined by mountain, semi-mountain, Strandzha-Sakar, the Rhodopes, and we may know that with negative growth all districts are naturally negative, except Sofia, which has about 15.8 per thousand growth, and Varna region. Dear colleagues, we know what is happening in the country after 1989. More than 185 settlements have disappeared, they are deserted. In parallel, we must all be aware that from 5329 settlements, more than 1262 have a population of 10 to 99. We realize that all these reasons such as social poverty, health care, as Bulgaria's contemporary development, are indeed in a new quality situation. But in my opinion, we should emphasise that Bulgaria's demographic catastrophe, in addition to its quantitative characteristics, which we have repeatedly commented here, has its quality characteristics with different regional dimensions. From this tribune we can safely say that the quantitative and qualitative characteristics that occurred in the country as a result of the demographic catastrophe lead to a dysfunction of the socio-economic and techno-innovative development of modern Bulgaria. In parallel, I think that, in this sense, our country is functioning in an increasingly narrow range of technical, economic, intellectual and social potential. And if we don't take measures with an extremely large commitment you are, Mr. Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers, it is also at the moment of trial that the government itself can become a demographic disaster. For us there are three groups of reasons and we hope that you will take them into account in the follow-up measures in the work of the government and in the operation of the state. The first reason, this is undoubtedly birth rate, mortality, the loss of fertile women, mass immigration and other processes that are happening here in the Balkans. There are no immediate reasons, there is no dispute about demand, poverty, unemployment, social diseases. It is extremely important to take into account social inequalities. However, there is one extremely important reason that we cannot jump over it, whether it is voluptuous or not. Dear colleagues, after 1989 For conscious or unconscious reasons, we entered another world. Some say: on the market, others say that we have entered the neoliberal socio-economic and political system. It gave itself the effect of the demographic crisis. We have come to certain deep inequalities, to impoverishment. And here is already the question of a national debate that we Socialists are having at our conventions, lead it with the Bulgarian society, about how to function modern Bulgaria from now on, how to function as development and as opportunities? Because, there is no dispute, we can say that poverty should be understood not only as a low wage, but poverty, impoverishment, reduces the social and professional opportunities for civic and social realization of the people in Bulgaria. And that is one reason for our country's perspective. In parallel, we know that a large group of Bulgarians went abroad of their choice. Yes, they have their right, but we are aware here and we are the people who need to create the environment in Bulgaria, how can Bulgarians further realize their potential for the benefit of the Bulgarian society do they see such a path, do they see such a place, do they have such an opportunity? For this reason, we want to address you: by carefully considering the proposals that we have made as a result of the proposal of the group of MPs for a decision, it is extremely important for us as a parliament, the government, God forbid, to be able to create a positive alternative for the country's development. We're ready to get into a debate like this, but get to the point. A positive alternative so that this tragic demographic picture doesn't go to a demographic disaster. We know that the deteriorated quantitative and qualitative characteristics of the population in Bulgaria will not allow for the future, and this is already established by everyone, to be able to function the Bulgarian state and state as socio-economic and as state-political reproduction. We know the state of the people, their professional commitment, education, health status. That is why we believe that the strategy for the demographic revival of Bulgaria should be implemented in this way, should be with the main focus of the social and economic activities. Socio-economic events based on the view of modern, modern Bulgaria, based on the development of modern technologies and modern agriculture, livestock farming, the Bulgarian village to be revived, not to have opportunities and give the right to have one elected mayor and to reduce the energy of the people who live. In our view, ladies and gentlemen, in the proposals we are making, we are turning to really evaluate in this regard. 1 on the impact of the regulatory framework on the main causes of national, regional and sectoral. But we would not want every office to have a strategy, to gather on an inter-agency council and there to say: yes, every strategy is developing, and not lead to any development of the country itself. In parallel to this, the measures in the short and medium term. Look at the proposals that our group submitted to the Budget Act yesterday and the other day. In the short term, with this budget for equalising inequalities, think about it, should we remain on the same tax base and taxation? With regard to health care, do we have to stay with this model? Is he useful? With regard to education, the job of the state towards education: to the average, to the higher, to the science, to modern Bulgaria the state has made and is there at all such a task so that the country's development can be completed in this way? With regard to the targeted impact on certain regions. We are offering a fund "Industry" and we are offering a fund "Regional impact". I don't understand, you're running away from targeted investments in certain regions! Here we recommend, when the measures and actions to overcome the demographic crisis in the short and medium term are formed and presented in the National Assembly, to see all these issues in a complex. And finally. For us are extremely important labour and social security, labour integration and social security, but at the heart is the package of measures for the social perspective, for the social and economic development of the country. That's the problem! Task of the day! We shouldn't be sweeping this subject with strategists, reports, material. I think, Mr. Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers, that your role is key in the Council of Ministers. Take her! We will support you, but the question is: take into account the proposals made by the Left. They are useful for the subsequent development of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Are there any lines to the speech of the MP Dora Yankova? I won't. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u57	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are indeed having a meaningful debate on the demographic crisis and on the measures to overcome them, and I would like to thank all my fellow Members who have said that the issue is definitely not politicised, but put the ill topics in front of society. Undoubtedly, the problem of the demographic catastrophe.. Let's call it that is an exceptional problem and it may be the most important one standing before the state. We may be richer tomorrow, Bulgaria can prosper, we can achieve great success in all lifelike ways, but when the Bulgarian people melt and when they disappear, I think we should all be responsible for this. The correct findings were made that Bulgaria is the country with the lowest birth rate and the highest mortality rate in the European Union, that it is of the highest morbidity rate, pointed out the major regional disproportions. We are all witnessed by the fact that Sofia and several cities, perhaps two or three, have had positive developments in the last 25 years, but all the other regions and settlements in the country have really suffered from the demographic disaster. According to forecast research in 2050, Bulgaria will be under 5 million people. This is really scary! We are talking here about the huge changes that occur in demographic, ethnic, social, educational aspects, problems with employment, as people are increasingly difficult to find, especially from professions that are necessary for the development of the Bulgarian economy, and definitely urgent measures should be taken. Unfortunately, honourable Members, we do not state responsibility for what has happened. I believe that during the years of the transition the demographic policy of all Bulgarian governments was not adequate. During large periods, there was disinterest in this problem. He didn't put himself into discussion at all, nor anything concrete to be done on it. When there was a debate, he was linked to findings. Yes, results were reported, problems were pointed out, but almost nothing was going on to solve them. There is no way to accept the approach, speaking of a demographic disaster, to pour aimlessly some funds that do not improve the demographic state in the country, and many times it has been acted in this way... per piece and without a comprehensive strategy. Of course, there are some successful examples that we can give. Although sporadic, so far quite successful measures have been decreed for the creation of the National Fund "Invitro" or municipal funds for assisted reproduction that support families who have reproductive problems. After all, these are usually well-educated families with higher education, which really are a demographic potential that each country wants to develop. The measures for stimulating responsible parenting are extremely important and we need to head there. Here we are not talking about quantitative indicators, about how many should be the population of Bulgaria, we are talking about a state policy that is looking for a way to develop the Bulgarian society in an ascending line. I think, honourable Members, that there is no more need for findings, we do not need to do any spells from the National Assembly's stand, but there is a need for concrete measures. And, thank God, the current government, of course, with the huge role in this direction of the United patriots, proposes concrete measures to deal with the demographic catastrophe and we may name some of them. They are, of course, not only the fruit of our ideas, they are also the fruit of mutual experience from other countries. The example of Hungary is very good. The measure to grant one-off birth aid to a third child, for example in Hungary, colleagues, is 32 thousand. Euros for every family that has a third child. As a comparison, about 5,000 third children are born annually in Bulgaria, and I believe that the possibility of serious one-time financial assistance for a third child would not only be quite useful, but would not require such a large financial resource. In this direction we can also point to the measures with special monthly support for the birth of a third child; to provide low-interest or interest-free housing loans for young families; to provide them for families of students who are learning or for families with higher education; to provide opportunities and financial loans to Bulgarian young people who are learning in professions in Bulgaria or abroad, which are necessary for the Bulgarian economy. And last but not least, the introduction of modern immigration policy. We are talking here about the existence of huge reserves from representatives of the Bulgarian communities abroad, in Ukraine, in Moldova, these are extremely hardworking people who want, have opportunities and wish their development, for which even the living standard in Bulgaria is much higher than the countries where they live and would be extremely good potential for us. Of course, we should not ignore the communities of the Balkans, the Western suburbs, Albania, Macedonia. I believe that, so far, in the current term of office, measures have been voted in favour of my words in the previous National Assembly. For example: the issue of documents for Bulgarian citizenship; the increase of the reception of Bulgarians from abroad in the Bulgarian higher education institutions; the increase of scholarships. These people do not come here to hang on the neck of the social system of Bulgaria. Usually these Bulgarians from abroad come and become excellent specialists. With their high education they are infused into the Bulgarian economy and contribute to the prosperity of our country. Education is extremely important, and that is why I have also opened this topic. In this sense, we should welcome the attempts of the Ministry of Education and Science to keep children in school. A huge problem is that many Bulgarian children remain outside the education system, they receive no opportunities to be competitive in the labour market. You can give yourself the answer to what activities you can engage in if you do not have an education. I therefore also consider this measure to be extremely successful. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude what I am saying, we welcome the attempts of the current government to take concrete measures and actions to improve the demographic situation, as you have mentioned before me: these are measures that will not be decided in a month, two or a year. These are long-term measures, perhaps the demographic potential of a nation has developed for centuries, and our nation has suffered many major breaks in previous times and in the last 28 years. I believe that if we, as responsible Bulgarian citizens, do not do something concrete at this time, it will be really late tomorrow. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u58	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. Are there any lines to the speech of the MP Krasimir Bogdanov? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Any other speeches? Here you go, Professor. Mikhailov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have little time since my colleagues in the group spoke before me. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! I believe that today is extremely serious with regard to the attention of fellow Members from the respected audience to this debate, as it concerns the country's future as a whole. I carefully introduced myself to the Draft Council of Ministers for medium-term and short-term changes in demographic policy. It's written quite professionally. I will allow myself here, in your presence, to quote a thought that very disturbs me on page 78. It sounds literally like this: The reduction and ageing of the population appears to be a lasting and irreversible social process in Bulgaria. Here I interrupt the citation and go a few lines below: The Community should be prepared to accept the reduction and ageing of the population, as an inevitable given, end of the quote. If a draft Council of Ministers proposes such a finding, after the many arguments made by both sides of the Chamber, the proposals and concerns that have been expressed in connection with the demographic situation in Bulgaria, I think there is a contradiction in this document, which, with the efforts of all parliamentary groups and the Council of Ministers, should be seriously reconsidered as a conclusion and really changed. Since I have very little time, I would only address health issues. Without scanning them, I can only share that, in no indicator of those on which health needs are taken into account, starting with a total mortality rate; early mortality rate; infant mortality, perinatal mortality and population reproduction data, although we have improved our indicators over the past 10 years, which is quite normal for a country that is a member of the European Union, we remain at a very, very distant level from that of the average European citizen. This is evident and regardless of the data provided in the last 24 hours to increase the average life expectancy of the population in Bulgaria, it is lags an average of four years from that in the European Union. In order not to get into the other problems of education, which is a very serious problem in the draft prepared by the Council of Ministers, some of the worrying trends and especially among the Roma population, where more than two thirds of the population between 16 and 24 years of age neither works nor wishes to work nor wants to be trained, I would like to ask you very kindly to hear your opinion, because our report a month ago on the integration of the Roma population in Bulgaria according to my humble judgment, as a doctor and as a national representative, was satisfactory. What is your opinion of this Programme, which is of very serious importance, given that the Roma population currently represents 10%? The trends that well outlined the colleagues who spoke before me say that the entire internal structure of the population over the next 15 years will be seriously changed. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u60	Thank you, Professor. Mikhailov. Is there any lines to Professor Scully's statement? Mikhailov? There are no lines. Any other Members of the National Assembly wishing to speak? Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u61	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Reports and analyses of global European official institutions indicate that the demographic problem is a pan-European problem. The numbers being exported are extremely disturbing for the institutions of the European Union. According to UN research, the population of our continent is melting dramatically and trends are towards deepening the crisis. Negative trends in the development of demographic processes in recent decades and changes in population numbers and structures have a strong impact on the functioning of basic systems of society: economic, educational, health insurance, pension insurance, social protection system, labour market and others. At the same time, the characteristics of the economic and social environment are largely reflected in demographic development. The interaction between these processes is a challenge for each management. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy directs, coordinates and controls the implementation of state policy in the field of demographic development, as well as the activity of analysis, evaluation, forecasting demographic processes in cooperation with other state bodies, social partners and non-governmental organisations, implementing activities for the organisation of coordination and monitoring of demographic policy, which is expressed in maintaining an institutional framework and national policy implementation mechanism. Conserving the coordination and management of the Interdepartmental Working Group on Demographic Issues, involving representatives of key state departments: National Statistical Institute, National Insurance Institute, Bulgarian Red Cross, National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, NGOs. Annual monitoring reports shall be prepared to integrate information from national statistics, administrative information and data from sociological studies. The national mechanism for coordination and monitoring of the implementation of horizontal inter-institutional and cross-sectoral demographic policy has also been improved through the establishment of the National Council on Demographic Policy. The current demographic situation in the Republic of Bulgaria is characterized by a continuing declining birth rate, holding a high level of total mortality, reduction and ageing of the population. A significant role is played by migration. In 2014 68 thousand 83 children were registered in the country, of which 67 thousand 585 were born. Compared to the previous year, the number of live births was increased by 1007. In 2016 65 thousand 446 born children were registered in the country, of which 64 thousand were registered. 984 are live births. Compared to 2014 the number of live births decreased by 2601 children. The total birth rate in 2016 was 9.1 per 1000. In Bulgaria there is a tendency to increase the average age of mothers who give birth. By 2020, it is foreseen that it will remain in the area between 26 and 28 years, and then there will even be a slight increase in the average age of about 30 years. Significant social risks also hide the extremely early births of girls under the age of 15, as well as the early births of girls between 15 and 19 years old. These cases need special attention and prevention from the state. It is also necessary to increase the sexual-reproductive culture of teenagers in schools. From 2007 to 2014 2912 children were born from mothers under 15 years of age, in 2014 mothers under 15 years of age were 320. It's about the birth of a first child, and seven mothers under the age of 15 for the birth of a second child. A key point in solving demographic problems in the country is providing access to quality education. Mothers who give birth in Bulgaria must be educated in order to pass this on to their children. This is the main way to increase the quality of human capital in the country. However, only the Ministry of Education does not need to be activated. The Social Office has a role to play in partnership with the other ministries to develop a mechanism to stimulate birth rates. And to encourage the more educated, the system will have to work to give more to those who receive more. Thus, others will also be able to be encouraged to work harder. I'm gonna go with mortality. In 2016, it was 107,580 people, the total mortality rate was 15.1 per thousand. Compared to the previous year, the number of deaths is reduced by 2537, or this is 2.3%. A reduction in infant mortality, a reduction in the number of deaths and a total mortality rate, an increase in the expected life expectancy can be noted as positive trends in 2016. The figures show that about 65,000 are born and 107,000 die. [[Noise and lines.]] Our goal is for these figures to be equalized and for our population to reach a sustainable number, that is, growth to be around zero. It is, however, a process that will take place in the next 10 years. The most significant demographic trend in the development of the population is the ageing process. The average age of the population in Bulgaria is among the highest not only in the European Union but also in the world. The average age of the population grew steadily from 40.4 years in 2001 to 43,5 at the end of 2016. [[Noise and lines.]] The average life expectancy for the country's population, calculated in the period 2014 - 2016, is 74.7 years. compared to the 2013 period, 2015 has increased by 0,2 years. I must also focus on the problem of migration. It is also very important to reduce population numbers, with the largest number of migrations being in the period 2000-2000. [[Noise and lines.]] Much has been done, much is done, but the process of stopping this demographic collapse is too slow. I will only point out some of the measures: Operational Programme "Human Resources Development", The Work Programme "Programme" provides employment to 10 000 long-term unemployed, as well as provides training, training, training; These are all measures taken by the government to resolve the demographic crisis. [[Noise and lines.]] We know that the process is not quick, but you can see that we are trying to stop the process of the demographic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u62	Thank you, Mr. Papasimov. Are there any lines to the MP's statement? I can't see. Willing Members of the National Assembly? Here you are, Mr. Karadayi, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Simeonov! The priorities for management say: adopting a system of measures to overcome negative demographic trends. So far, a system of measures has not been adopted, has not been introduced! I'm going to prove that now. In the Management Program is written: limiting negative demographic trends, including raising birth rates, reducing youth emigration, balanced immigration policy, tailored to the needs of the Bulgarian business. Sounds good in European, but what's next? Next is a decipher in the answer to Mr. Gokov's question from the previous session. Six measures are presented as a decision: First, financial assistance to a third child only to responsible parents who have no violation of their obligations to their first two children. [[Noise and lines.]] Unlawful, unusual, inadequate, illogical and too, too disturbing. Who, and how, defines responsible parents, evaluates breach of obligations? It is not fully deciphered, but it sees in the answer to the next question in the same session last week, I quote: When it comes to children of minorities, where parental care is not at this level, the traditional one. Second measure - monthly financial assistance for a third child until the age of age. He also relaxes on responsible parents. More than a ridiculous suggestion! Third residential loans: low interest rates, interest-free. It is unclear, but the answer is not intended to be precise, correct, stately. The answer is meant to promise something. What difference does it make, is there no responsibility? The fourth is similar to the previous measure, but the principle of separation applies to a full extent and imposes separate measures. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u64	Just for a minute...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u65	I won't comment on the fifth one...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u66	Mr. Karadaye, I'd like to ask the court to remain silent! It's hard to hear what you're saying. Sorry to interrupt. Please continue!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The six-year introduction of modern in the stenogram is written: the immigration policy, I suppose, you mean immigration policy with the setting of a condition and criterion for the selection of potential emigrants is recorded, surely it is about immigrants. The aim is to increase the number of the Bulgarian population, explicitly stating that the Bulgarians from our historical diaspora have an advantage under the indicator.............................................................................................. A clear sign of ethnic selection! It is insulting to comment, and it is unnecessary to seek the state approach in solving the problem of the demographic catastrophe. Without comment I will leave the self-satisfied finding that the tourist season was saved by 3 000 Bulgarian compatriots because there was no one to work. If this is not a recognition of the government's true failure, then at least it is a complete failure to choose the person in question as Deputy Prime Minister. Who can give a justification for the ability of Bulgarian citizens of other ethnic origin born and expelled for political or economic reasons from their homeland? Where are the measures for Bulgarian citizens of other ethnic origin, other than Bulgarian citizens of Turkey? But not only do we not invite them, we push them and beat them at the border. The Bulgarian nation is a bouquet of ethnicities and the Bulgarian ethnic model reports this. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Given who presents the answer, all this was expected and could be predicted, but these answers have nothing to do with the written priorities, neither with the Management Program, nor with the Strategy, if it is at all known to the Deputy Prime Minister in question. That's the answer you don't even have a place in power! And perhaps the truth is quite different.. one is recorded for Europe, but the decryption and implementation is provided conveniently to nationalists and the problem of the demographic crisis is solved by Stalin.... no person, no problem! As is implied, no Bulgarian citizens of non-Bulgarian ethnic origin will be appointed to vacant jobs by applying them from the state and from the business more special criteria and on a special approach. The latter is a quote from the Stenogram of Bulgarian citizenship will not receive, regardless of the connection with land, even born in the country or their successors. You'll crush them! But my word is on the government's demographic policy. The question to GERB is: is there a government demographic policy, is the Bulgarian ethnic model, the basis of which is real integration, preserving identity and not division and autonomy? To repeat for those who have not understood: not autonomy, but real integration. The overall policy of today's power is a policy of double, different standards, including morals, which is condemned to xenophobia, ethnic hatred, responsible for demographic policy. Brilliant cynicism! We've heard a lot about illegal buildings being removed. But which buildings, or rather whose?! Not related to the Deputy Prime Minister in question, even though there are judicial decisions to remove them, because apparently the law does not apply to him. Maybe that's why he's in power?! The Vice Prime Minister's response has nothing to do with state policy, and if it is the government, it has no right to govern us, even more so with the Presidency. By definition, demographic policy is a system of laws, economic and social measures of the state, which regulate demographic processes. Where is the policy of the Bulgarian state in this context? The Movement for Rights and Freedoms has put first in its election programme the fight against poverty and the demographic crisis. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, as the main conclusion of the Deputy Prime Minister's response requires the lack of any understanding of the problem [[(Shouting:) "Search! The weather!.. by the United Patriarchs.........................................)...........................................................]] with the demographic catastrophe and a lack of adequate state policy to deal with this problem. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. In the case of the whole Bulgarian society it became clear what helpless government we have in this area, and for this reason we continue to insist on the resignation of Valeri Simeonov. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u68	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Are there any lines to the MP's statement? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Any other speeches? There are no requests for other speeches. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, will you take this opportunity? The word is the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Valeri Simeonov. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The last statement, with his challenging pathos, aggression and false assessments, was definitely intended to trigger an adequate response. I think the issue we are discussing in the National Assembly is responsible enough to be discussed in this way. In fact, it should be discussed, not used politically, so that last statement will not be answered. Of course, there were many reproaches, and there were many true findings and analyses. I am not going to enter the field of analysis of the demographic crisis, it has been very well highlighted by representatives of all the political forces that have spoken, and I thank you for that. Indeed, this is one of the worst problems of modern Bulgaria. I cannot accept some reproaches from representatives of the left side of the Chamber that this is almost due to the six-month governance of the coalition government of GERB and the United Patriarchs. It's just not serious! There is no way that processes that develop and form, I would say, not for decades, but for fifty-fifty years, could be caused or determined by governance for six months. That's just not gonna happen! I also call this to the speeches and qualifications with political direction, which should not be paid particular attention. I also pass by the tossing that it is almost a moment to see the exact expression of....... the demography can hardly be solved with measures taken in the jungle of this government................................................................................ Mr. Gokov, this is at least an incorrect qualification, because in that case you are facing a beast coming out of the jungle. I don't think you have that opinion of me. I'm serious now. For these six months, the responsible management of GERB and the United Patriarchs (United Patriarchs) carried out very little and I will try to remind you of it. As soon as you're uninterested, by the noise, I'll be done with the show. I will speak specifically, precisely on the management program that we have adopted and on which we are working. The priorities and measures relating to demography: Priority 6: Limiting negative demographic trends, including raising birth rates, reducing youth emigration, balanced migration policy, tailored to the needs of the Bulgarian market. The growing negative trends are mostly related to the following three circumstances: low birth rate, high mortality, emigration. Emigration! Emigration! Government policy is aimed at mastering negative demographic processes. Objective 19: Delaying the negative demographic processes in question and reducing population numbers with a tendency to stabilize in the long term and ensuring a high quality of human capital. Measure 81: Assessment of the implementation of the measures in the updated National Strategy for Demographic Development of the Population in the Republic of Bulgaria 2012 - 2030 in the context of countering a demographic disaster The measure is implemented. How? A report has already been prepared for 2016 to implement the updated National Strategy for Demographic Development of the Population in the Republic of Bulgaria, which is agreed under art. 32 with the departments and is due to be submitted on 15 November. The adoption of a decision at a meeting of the Council of Ministers has already been submitted. As soon as possible, expect to be accepted. Measure 82: Assessment of the impact of the legislation on balanced demographic development the measure is implemented. In the process of preparation is the preparation of the Methodology for evaluation of the implementation of the updated National Strategy for demographic development of the population in the Republic of Bulgaria. This document will most likely be presented to you in relation to the requests for a decision. Measure 83: The adaptation of social systems and sectoral policies to demographic change is being implemented. Councils shall be held at central and regional level to coordinate and synchronise the efforts and planned resources of the departments for the implementation of demographic policy and to adapt social systems and sectoral policies to demographic change. Participation in regional development councils, round tables, workshops on the synchronization of measures in different sectoral policies shall be taken. In the period 13 November, an expert workshop was held to establish a transnational expert demographic network within the South East European Cooperation Process (SEE). Bulgaria, Macedonia, Serbia, Turkey, Greece, Moldova, Romania, Croatia, Slovenia, Albania, Kosovo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Montenegro are included. The meeting is in fulfillment of the commitments set out in a joint declaration of the ministers of labour and social policies adopted at the international conference on the topic of meeting the demographic challenges in the countries participating in the process of cooperation in South East Europe, held in Sofia in May last year. Objective 23: Promoting the active life of the elderly. Measure 92: Developing a national strategy to promote the active life of elderly people A draft National Strategy for the Promotion of Active Ageing in Bulgaria has been developed. The project will be updated in relation to the receipt of new statistical and administrative information and will then be provided for discussion of the relevant departments and organisations. The draft National Strategy for Promoting Active Ageing in Bulgaria will also be submitted for adoption by a decision of the Council of Ministers. Measure 93: Gradually building the Active Ageing Index at national and regional level is being implemented. The Active Ageing Index is an instrument created by experts of the European Commission and the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe for comparative analyses and future peer reviews in the Member States of the European Union, in response to the ageing process of the population and of the workforce throughout Europe. Bulgaria has so far participated in a peer review in Krakow, Poland. Talks have been held with representatives of the UN Economic Commission for Europe to assist Bulgaria in drawing up a roadmap for the introduction of the Index, which will lead to improvement of demographic policy at national and regional level. Measure 94: Developing a two-year report on the level of coverage of the National Concept for the Promotion of Active Ageing 2012 - 2030 in Sectoral Policies - the measure is implemented. A two-year report on the level of coverage of the national Concept for the promotion of active adult life in sectoral policies for the period 2015 - 2016 was developed. 32 on 6 November 2017. It is to be adopted by decision of the Council of Ministers in mid-December 2017. I'm skipping the less significant measures, focusing only on the more serious ones with the corresponding performance. Increase income through employment and higher labour productivity. Objective 26: Increasing the supply of labour force prepared according to the needs of employers. Measure 102: Training with budget funds of at least 50 000 unemployed people I am talking about the four years of management on a list of jobs sought by employers based on information from the regional employment committees and the developed short-term forecasts for the demand and supply of labour. In January 2017 alone, 10 490 unemployed persons were trained. Measure 103: Training with the funds of the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" at least one hundred thousand jobseekers and inactive persons from vulnerable groups on the labour market. The measure is implemented. A total of 13 897 persons are included in the operation. Among them, 3 956 persons were involved in internship, with 1,022 persons remaining in employment with the same employer. 9 941 persons were involved in training at work and 5 768 were persons who had successfully completed training and remained at work with the same employer. Under operation "Training and employment for young people" the employment of 18 341 people is ensured. Of these, 17 735 persons were included in direct employment, 606 persons were included in post-pass training. So far, a total of 1,722 vouchers have been issued under the scheme to acquire professional qualifications and key components. 8 194 persons, vouchers issued for inclusion in training for the acquisition of professional qualifications and key components are included in direct employment. There are 373 persons involved in employment after the training already completed. The new workplace includes 4,748 unemployed and inactive persons. At the moment, the number of unemployed and inactive participants who have a job on leaving the operation is 37, and those who have acquired a qualification of 170 upon leaving the operation. Operation "Active" includes 3238 number of inactive participants aged 15 to 29 years who are out of training and/or education. Of these at the moment, 826 people are involved in education, training, qualification or work, including as self-employed persons. Measure 106: Training with the funds of the Operational Programme According to the procedure "Vauchers for employed persons" up to now, 17 135 employed persons have been included in training and a total of 18 617 vouchers have been issued, of which for the study of foreign languages "3 977," digital competence "1575," training procedures for employed persons and specific training are under assessment at the present time. Objective 27: Raising labour supply and reducing labour demand (inactive, including discouraged and long-term unemployed persons) Measure 107: Amendments and additions to the Employment Promotion Act providing active measures to activate unemployed and inactive persons and increasing the effectiveness of subsidiary employment on the basis of the results of the net assessment of the effect of active labour market policy in 2017. The net assessment was carried out in 2017 with funding under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" project. The report was drawn up in October 2017. A conference and discussion are to be held with a view to formulating proposals for amendment and supplement of the regulations in order to include measures to activate unemployed and inactive persons and increase the efficiency of subsidiary employment. Measure 108: The conclusion of an agreement on integration into employment with each long-term unemployed person after profiling the long-term unemployed; the provision of employment on the primary market of long-term unemployed persons at jobs, tailored to the needs and opportunities of the unemployed person and with the support of a mentor, providing trainings for occupying the available vacancies in the region. The conclusion of an agreement on integration into employment with each long-term unemployed person is included in the Implementing Rules with an amendment and an extension of 20 October 2017, with employment on the primary market of 22 202 long-term unemployed in the period January 2017 Measure 112: The provision of supported employment to at least 3 000 unemployed persons with permanent disabilities is due to be implemented, and a contract with the subject of the contract was announced twice to be awarded twice to the contractor of the support for the employment of unemployed persons with permanent disabilities. Within the prescribed and announced deadline for receipt of tenders, the measure did not start to be implemented. Measure 113: Provision of prerequisites through the funds of the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" "at least 40 thousand disabled persons over the age of 18" to start looking for work or to have a job, including as self-employed persons the measure is implemented. In April, the Financial Instruments Manager in Bulgaria (Fund) launched 13 separate procurement positions with the subject of a financial instrument for shared risk credit and so on and so forth. Measure 115: Enhancing the effectiveness of active policy programmes and measures based on the results of the evaluations in 2017 and 2019 of the net effect of the participation of the unemployed in the project is being implemented. The assessment of the active labour market policy, programmes and measures was carried out in 2017. It's funded by state budget funds. Measure 116: Inclusion of employment under programmes and measures financed by the state budget of over 65 thousand persons and through measures under the operational programme the measure is implemented. Over 25, 403 unemployed were included in employment under programmes and measures financed by the state budget during the period January 2017. [[Noise, excitement.]] I can see that the interest is not very high. I'm skipping a few pages. To conclude, once again, I would like to sum up, despite the lack of any serious interest from the question that the government has put in serious budget funds over the past six months and taken quite significant measures to engage unemployed people in the provision of requalification. I gave you the numbers. It's about tens of thousands of people. In response to Mr. Gokov's question last Friday, I also explained the measures that have been carried out and which have not been carried out so far for 27 years, and this is to secure labour on the labour market. In conclusion, if you allow me to make a summary that the issue of solving the demographic crisis is not at all simple and simple and cannot in any way be directly linked to the incomes of the population, because statistics from the facts presented by my fellow Members, for example, for Hungary, show that the payment of a lump sum of 32 thousand euros to each third child in Hungary for the last four, five years has not brought much. It brought birth rate increases by a fraction of the percent. The measure applied in Russia for the last 10 years has also not produced a particularly significant result. The overall trend for population reduction, for negative trends in demographic processes is characteristic of all developed countries, including the most developed. Therefore, it is very difficult to draw up a common work strategy. I will also rely on your cooperation, but I would like to conclude with you that the trend of demographic collapse that we are commenting on is not from yesterday, is not from 6 months, is not from 6 years, is not only from the transition period, as has been suggested in one of the statements that the market economy has almost reversed the trend. It's not like that! I can give you an example of statistics about our homeland: - in 1980 the natural growth rate was 3.4%; - in 1985 it was 1,3%; - in 1989, the natural growth rate was 1.1%. In other words, in 10 years the trend was about minus 2.3%. When you multiply by these past 27 years, you get exactly as much as you need to get at the present time, about minus 5%, which means that this is a permanent trend in Bulgarian society. A permanent trend that is definitely not affected by whether there is a transition from market to planner and I do not know what economy. That's what the statistics say. To conclude, I look forward to voting on a decision by the National Assembly. We're your employees, and we'll do our job the way you're assigning it. Thank you. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u70	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. The report on the remaining time of the groups shows that the group of GERB has 1 minute and 30 seconds; BSP,
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u71	How much do they have?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u72	There are 5 minutes of service available, an independent representative also. I don't see any requests to use just reported times. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I declare the debates closed. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber to vote on the three draft decisions and one amendment proposed by Mr. Gokov. First, I put to the vote the proposal for amendment to the draft BSP decision with the importer Mr. Georgi Gokov the deadline laid down in this article. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. I repeat, a change in the period of time is not "31 November" but "15 December 2017."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u73	November is 30 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-17.u74	That's what the Project says. [[Noise and lines.]] Please, voting mode. Vote 191 MPs: 86 against 91 abstentions 14. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the three draft decisions in the order of their submission to the National Assembly. I'm introducing you to the text of the first: ? RESPONSIBILITY? in connection with the debates on questions No 754-05-51 of 26 October 2017, from the National Representative Georgi Gokov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov on a policy for solving the demographic problems of the country HAS DECIDED Ι. This is how it is written, I'm sorry, I'll read it to the Council of Ministers until November 31st. [[Laughter, raging in the hall.]] I'm reading you verbatim. .. 2017 to prepare and submit to the National Assembly an analysis of the current state and forecasts, according to the official statistical information, of the main demographic indicators of the Republic of Bulgaria. The analysis shall also contain the reasons for the deterioration of demographic indicators. ΙΙΙ. At the same time as the analysis under point Ι, the Council of Ministers shall: 1. He prepares and presents to the National Assembly an assessment of the impact of the regulations and the main national, regional and/or sectoral strategies, programmes, plans and policies on overcoming demographic problems. 2. Formates and presents to the National Assembly the actions and measures in the short and medium term to overcome the demographic crisis in the Republic of Bulgaria, including adaptation and/or extension of the scope of existing ones. 3. Develop and present to the National Assembly integrated support programmes for areas with adverse socio-economic, demographic and geographical characteristics. Please, voting mode. Vote 189 MPs: 84, against 100, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. Next: "Project" DECISION in connection with the debates on questions No 754-05-51 of 26 October 2017 by the National Representative Georgi Gokov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov on a policy for solving the demographic problems of the country The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Council of Ministers to develop and submit to the National Assembly by 31 December 2017 short-term and long-term measures within the framework of the updated National Strategy for demographic development of non-population in the Republic of Bulgaria (2012 - 2030).). 2. The Council of Ministers shall, by 31 March 2018, submit to the National Assembly information on the implementation of the 2017 Plan of the updated National Strategy for demographic development of the population in the Republic of Bulgaria (2012 Importers are Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. Please, voting mode. Vote 189 MPs: 59 against 95 abstentions 35. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the third vote: "Project" DECISION in connection with the debate on questions No 754-05-51 of 26 October 2017, submitted by the National Representative Georgi Gokov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov on a policy for solving the demographic problems of the country The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to submit to the National Assembly an Annual Report 2016 on the implementation of the updated national strategy for demographic development of the population in the Republic of Bulgaria (2012 2. Instructs the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to draw up and submit to the National Assembly a report on the implementation of the activities of the measures to address the demographic crisis in the Republic of Bulgaria by 31 January 2018 of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria Programme for the period 2017 - 2021. 3. Instructs the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to prepare and present to the National Assembly a forecast for the demographic development of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2040 Importers: MPs from the parliamentary group of GERB party and the United Patriarchs. Voting mode. They voted 190 MPs: 105, against 2, abstention 83. The proposal is accepted, and with this, the decision I introduced you to. That's the end of the agenda for today. The next plenary session, as decided today, is extraordinary on 21 November 2017, Tuesday, at 14.45 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
