ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Happy Thanksgiving! Let's wish the mansion a happy day to all those who are celebrating today! Bless you! [[Applause.]] Let our work be fruitful! Let's get the cashiers to buy us a drink, too. [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, today is the first Wednesday of the month, so the program is formed under art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure. In order to run the parliamentary groups this month will be the first parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, follow the "United Patriarchs" and then the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. 1. A proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the BSP for Bulgaria. The Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activity carried out for 2016, the importer of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means on 31 May 2017. 2. Proposal from the parliamentary group of "United Patriots" - First vote on the Draft Law for Amendment and Supplement to the Penal Code. Importers supplied by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 26 May 2017. 3. Proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms Exporters... Delyan Peevski, Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid on 26 October 2017. There are no proposals from the parliamentary group of Volja. The parliamentary group of GERB has not been received. I will continue with the points of the Programme: 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 10 November 2017. 5. First vote on the Bill amending the Law on Measurements. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 23 October 2017. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Technical Requirements for Products. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 23 October 2017. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing Council Regulation (EC) No 1236/2005 on trade in certain goods which could be used for the application of the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2017. The first vote was adopted on 18 October 2017. 8. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2017. Adopted in the first vote on 21 September 2017. 9. First vote on the Bill on the European Investigation Order. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 10 November 2017. 10. Second vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions. Importers are Anelia Klisarova and a group of MPs on 1 September 2017. The first vote was adopted on 26 October 2017. 11. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 September 2017. The first vote was adopted on 26 October 2017. 12. First vote on the bill on payment services and payment systems. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2017. 13. Parliamentary control. Colleagues, please let us vote on the agenda programme.... what I have read after the points proposed under art. 53, para. 8. Vote 185 MPs: 183, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kirilov, procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Since we have just adopted the weekly agenda, the agenda, and in relation to this, respectively. 1 on the agenda, I shall make the following two procedural proposals: The first is this: when hearing the Report of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence for the activities carried out in 2016 to be invited to participate in the hearing of this report, the Chief Prosecutor of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Chairman of the State Agency of National Security, the Director of Directions and the Minister of Interior, i.e. these are all bodies that may request the application of special intelligence funds. Please, in view of this and if this procedural proposal is accepted, respectively. 1 to become t. 3 on the agenda to ensure that those persons are present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u3	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, back offer. Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u4	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, in connection with the proposal we have heard, I would like to inform you of the following: the Commission for Control of the Security Services and the Implementation of Special Intelligence Means had a meeting which was dedicated, dear Mr Kirilov, to the adoption of the report you are talking about at the Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Means. This meeting was attended by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, the representative of the Supreme Judicial Council Mr. Magdalinchev, the head of the SANS, the Deputy Minister of Interior. They have all heard the report and I would like to tell you that this report has been approved to the Commission. So inviting them here is absolutely pointless, and if you want to change something in what we offer and use our right to offer, I would like to tell you that it doesn't make any sense. Why don't we invite Mr. Boyko Rashkov himself to come here because I didn't hear from you that he should be here and we're listening to him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. Just to clarify that at the Chairman's Council this topic was raised regarding the viewing of the report and I note that out of 9 Commissioners 5 are absent: Mr. Tsvetanov, Mr. Karadayi, Mr. Popov, Mr. Mareshki and the President of the Commission Mr. Lazarov. We spoke with colleagues, they said they would not withdraw this point, so I will now put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's procedural proposal in the Chamber to attend accordingly... You told the director of the NSA, the DANS. Once again, please identify all who must be invited, Mr. Kirilov, so that we can be more precise in our invitation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u6	Dear Madam President, I repeat the persons to be invited: the Prosecutor General, the President of the National Agency of State Security.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u7	[[BSP for Bulgaria, replica from place.]] : Which State Security?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u8	I apologize!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u9	DANS. [[Noise and lines.]] Please, colleagues! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u10	State Agency for National Security.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u11	DANS. Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u12	Head of direction... [[(Replications from place of SG of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP for Bulgaria))]] : Which directions?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u13	Yeah, headmasters and who did I say? [[Calls Chairman Tsveta Karayancheva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u14	The Home Secretary!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u15	And the Home Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u16	Are we calling Boyko Rashkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u17	No! No, he's got a report! In the absence of the Commission, and the substantial absence of the Commission, my deep conviction is that, despite the formal prerequisites, we should not look at this report!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u18	Please vote on the procedure so made. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u19	Mrs. Chairman! I'm taking attitude in the manner of conduct. Please put order not in the Chamber, but in the thoughts of some MPs!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u20	Please, Mr. Velkov! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u21	I'm asking you! Let's be precise about who we're inviting, and why are we inviting him here? First of all, I didn't hear Mr. Boyko Rashkov's name.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u22	If you didn't hear it, you wouldn't...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u23	Second, we heard about some agencies, heard about intelligence, NSS, State Security and so on. Only the Genisveta didn't hear it, I apologize, Madam President! If anyone is seeking to postpone this, we are not on a committee meeting, colleagues. But four members were absent...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u24	Five members are absent!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u25	...that's their problem! We're in a parliament meeting. So let's do what we need to do, and you do what you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u26	Here you go, Mr. Shopov, after Mr. Svilensky. He was before that.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Kirilov! When offering admission in the hall to various representatives of state institutions, it is normal to say their names. We allow names here, people, we don't allow directors of directorates, head of management. My request is to read the names of those who want to be admitted, and to these names to add the name of Mr. Boyko Rashkov, and to vote them together, as we have always done. With regard to your claims that this point should not be looked at because of the lack of a part of the Commission, this is the only opportunity for the opposition to put an item on the agenda that goes right, in this case point one... [[Replications by National Representative Daniel Kirilov]] ...that's right, and my request is that you really not try again to silence or crush the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u28	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Shopov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u29	That's what I wanted to say, but I'd like to further support Mr. Svilensky's thesis. We can't invite this guy, that guy, bosses, heads of this office, that directorate... Mr. Kirilov, they have names. They need to be personalized, and we need to invite them personally. From this point of view, Mr. Svilensky is very right. That was my idea, too. Since we've started inviting them all to these and those services, we don't need to invite MI agents here, they're among us, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u30	Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I pray that the President of the National Assembly will make an explanation and clarification with the proposal made by the National Representative Danail Kirilov. Probably, but this is my hypothesis, he wants to be invited to the Chamber so that they can answer questions if they arise in the so-made proposal for a hearing of Boyko Rashkov, and those who are applicants, and those who are performers in the application of special intelligence means. Therefore, as he is clearly not familiar with the way special intelligence means are being implemented, I suppose, but let him confirm, Madam President, I ask you to clarify that this is about: the President of the State Agency [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Do you want me to explain why the deputies are here? In the absence of the President, someone signs and is also an applicant. ... The D.A.'s office, and then we can have a full debate. I'm asking for this clarification! I can tell you by name: Dimitar Georgiev of DANS; Tsvetan Kitov of DATO; Sotir Tsatsarov of the Prosecutor's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Procedure, Mr. Kirilov, please come in. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u33	Last, I do not object to the names as my colleague presented them, but I would like to add to the statement: Mr. Dimitar Georgiev
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u34	Tsvetan Kitov is also a deputy.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u35	Yeah, you said it. I say, "I'm a deputy." Do I need to specify that the chief prosecutor of the Republic is called Sotir Tsatsarov? [[Noise and lines from SG to BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u36	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u37	Imagine Boyko Rashkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u38	Boyko Rashkov is an importer of the Report. [[Noise and lines from SG to BSP for Bulgaria.]] Well, let it go, you guys, you want the point! What's stopping you from asking for Boyko Rashkov's admission? [[Strong noise and lines from PG to BSP for Bulgaria.]] Why do I have to do your job?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u39	Colleagues! Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u40	Madam President, honourable Members. Here, in the proposal, we only did not hear the directors of the water, of the hot tub and of the CEZ...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u41	No, no, please, seriously, Mr. Ivanov! The offer!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u42	I propose in Mr. Kirilov's procedure to vote simultaneously on Mr. Boyko Rashkov's admission so that we do not do a separate procedure in order to save the time of the MPs and vote on the point in due time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u43	Thank you for your constructive idea, Mr. Ivanov. Please vote on Mr. Kirilov's procedure with Mr. Ivanov's supplement and if the relevant listed persons are accepted to be invited. [[Noise and lines.]] We vote first on their invitation, then we vote to become the third point to wait...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u44	Are we all gonna vote together?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u45	We're voting separately to give them time to come here. Please vote. Vote 182 MPs: for 181, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I submit the second procedural proposal, point one, the proposal of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, to become the third point. Please vote with the agreement to give our guests time to move to the National Assembly. Vote 183 MPs: 105, against 76, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u46	Madam President, in order for there to be no doubt that an attempt is being made to overwhelm point three and to prevent it from being considered due to the expiry of working hours, I propose a procedure for extending Parliament's working hours for today until the end of the third point, as you have now voted on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Please vote on Mr. Ermenkov's procedure. Vote 180 MPs: 74, against 52, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] Do we have a re-vote, Mr. Ivanov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u48	Madam President, honourable Members! Let us not get the impression that this Parliament is trying to silence this Report and we are trying to hide from the public the unpleasant facts that will be exposed by it for listening to politicians, journalists and whomever you think of.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u49	Don't make any suggestions, Mr. Ivanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u50	I ask you for common sense to support our proposal that working hours be extended until the third point is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u51	Re-vote on the so-called re-vote procedure. Please vote. Vote 182 MPs: 67 against 71, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. Procedure? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You have committed a gross violation of the Rules of the National Assembly, which has the power of a Law by decision of the Constitutional Court No 9. It says that: The proposal made by the opposition on the first Wednesday of the month becomes the first item on the agenda. In violation of state law, you once again voted for this item to become a third. We have heard the insane argument that:... despite the formal grounds, because of the lack of MEPs from the Commission.................................. The law for you is already a formal basis that can be violated in any way to hide the truth! To remind you that this item was postponed last week with a promise from you, colleagues, that this week will be on the agenda. This week is mandatory by law! The majority, by decision of parliament, repealed the Law, which is the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly! What are you afraid of? You have shown with your vote that you do not want an extension of the agenda until the point has been completed. This is proof that you don't want this point to be watched. What are you afraid of? From the truth? You'll hide it at the price of breaking the law, at the price of delaying the subject? You won't hide it! It will shine before the Bulgarian society sooner or later! With procedural grasps and with harsh violation of the rule of law and democratic rules once again GERB want to hide from the truth because they are afraid of what they will hear from the stand. [[Applause from SG to BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Procedure, Mr. Kirilov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u54	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! We didn't mean to. [[Noise, lines and shouts: "Eeeee" from BG to BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u55	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u56	To make sure of that, please... But here, I'm not sure anymore. [[The National Representative Danail Kirilov addressed the President of the National Assembly Tsveta Karayancheva for clarification.]] I want a half-hour break or a break so we can call the faces, have a half-hour to come and that's item one on the agenda. [[Applause from SG of BSP for Bulgaria. Set aside from the microphones between the President of the National Assembly Tsveta Karayancheva and the National Representative Danail Kirilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u57	Colleagues, make an offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u58	I'm making a proposal to re-vote to be the first point again...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u59	...as it is on the agenda...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u60	...and let's make a break.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u61	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Kirilov proposed to be the first point and to have a break until we wait for the invited persons to come. [[Noise and lines.]] Please vote to return point one. Vote 179 MPs: 172 against 4, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we interrupt for half an hour the work until our guests wait until 10:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u62	We are continuing on the agenda because we have a proposal under art. 53, para. 3 of the Staff Regulations on behalf of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria. Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On Friday, in a Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group, we said that this week we would insist that a point for the hearing of the Minister of Finance Mr. Goranov be placed on the agenda. In relation to the developments surrounding the leaked report by the Executive Director of the NRA, which proposes selective checks to be carried out on accounting companies and law firms for which information is available that they are legally serving interested parties who are subject to checks and administrative penalties accordingly. On this occasion there are already sharp reactions from many institutions, including the Supreme Council of Law, the Association of Bulgarian Administrative Judges, the Union of Judges and others. We still have no response from the Ministry under whose political control the National Revenue Agency operates. Such a method of selected verification is considered unacceptable. Naturally, everyone has the right to be dissatisfied with one or another decision of the court, but there are ways in which they are challenged at the upper instance. Selective verification also leads us to doubt the objectivity of this check, because, as suggested, who can be checked can also be offered how to check it. The results of the verification should not be set in advance. The National Revenue Agency, like all other institutions, should be used to implement the Law and conduct state policy in the field, not to repress the inquisitive and those who exercise free professions. Therefore, in order to dispel all these doubts or to confirm, if there is a problem, we insist that Minister Goranov appear in plenary to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. I put to the vote Mr. Zarkov's proposal to include this Bill in our weekly program. Vote 157 MPs: 68 against 62, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, I will read you draft and draft resolutions for the period from 29 November 2017 to 5 December 2017: A bill amending and supplementing the Tourism Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importers are Valentin Kasabov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Public Procurement Agency and the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Development and Reconstruction. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. Messages: The National Assembly has received: A report by the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 October 2017. On 24 November 2017, under Protocol No 48 of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, which was held on 28 November 2017, at which the report was reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. And the second message: The national statistical institute received information on a general index of producer prices in industry and indexes at prices and producer on the domestic and international markets in industry for October 2017. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, let's congratulate students and officers from the National Military University of Vasil Levski. [[People's representatives become, applause.]] Colleagues, we are moving to the first item on the agenda according to a proposal from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. Colleagues, with us are Minister Radev and Minister of the Interior; Mr. Boyko Rashkov; the Chairman of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of DANS Dimitar Georgiev; the Director of the Directorate of the National Assembly of SANS and Andon Nenov; the President of the DATO Mr. Kitov, and the Chief Prosecutor Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov. Colleagues, before we begin reading the Report, I will say that the report is manifest is not classified information. I ask the Members of the National Assembly not to violate the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. Here you are, Mr. Velkov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Before I begin with the Commission's opinion, I would like to ask a procedural question. I don't know if Mr. Rashkov is here. The report, as you said, is clear. The Commission's opinion, too, but do those present, including Mr Rashkov, believe that classified information will be available in the course of the questions, including personal facts and names, and whether we should hold a closed-ended meeting, at least after reading the opinion. That's my procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u66	What exactly are you suggesting, Mr. Velkov? Are you proposing a closed session so that I can make a procedure to ask the outsiders to leave? [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u67	I request that after reading the Commission report, vote for a closed session.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u68	Since the report is not classified information, after reading it you will make a proposal for a closed session, will be voted on and we will see if the meeting is accepted to be closed. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, honored guests! If you'll allow me, Madam President, to express satisfaction with the presence of our colleagues at the National Military University, whose alumni I am myself, and to proceed to what I am on the stand for. ♪ I can't believe on a report by the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activity carried out in 2016, No 739-00-05 submitted by the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means on 31 May 2017. At its regular closed session held on 23 November 2017, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act discussed a Report of the National Bureau of Special Intelligence Control. The meeting was attended by Mr. Boyan Magdalinchev, Deputy Chief Prosecutor of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Krasimir Tsipov Deputy Minister of Interior; Mr. Georgi Arabadzhiev Deputy Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior; Mr. Boyko Rashkov Chairman of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence; Mr. Dimitar Georgiev Chairman of the State Agency of National Security. The prepared on grounds of art. 346, para. 7 of the Special Intelligence Fund Act Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activities carried out in 2016 was presented by his Chairman............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He drew attention to the main performance indicators over the past year, as well as to the analyses and recommendations made for improving legislation. In the past 2016, in relation to its powers under art. 34b, para. 1 of the Special Intelligence Means Act, the Bureau has held 37 meetings and 700 decisions have been taken which result from the 287 inspections carried out by bodies under art. 13, 34n, 15 and 20 of the Special Intelligence Means Act through the means in art. 34f, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 of the Special Intelligence Means Act. In view of the findings on problems in procedures related to the SRS, a total of 35 information letters were sent to the heads of institutions as follows: Supreme Judicial Council 88 files have been drawn up in the Bureau for checks on the correctness of the application of the special intelligence means. 81 citizens' signals were received from them, 5 signals were also received by competence from other institutions, and 2 cases were self-conceived by the Bureau. Five citizens have been informed of the checks carried out on the alerts that they have been unlawfully subject to special intelligence means for 2016. The report draws attention to the legislative changes to the Special Intelligence and PPC Act, which extended the range of authorities entitled to make requests and found that in 2016, these authorities did not exercise that right. In 2016, procedures were initiated for the SRS in respect of 2749 persons, in 2015. 2638 persons, i.e. about 100 fewer. These parameters are compared to previous years, concluding that after 2011 there is a lasting trend towards reducing the number of persons controlled by the SRS and in 2016. - Stabilize. The largest number of initiated procedures is of the Ministry of Interior - 56.22%, Prosecutor's Office - 33.39%; SANS - 10.08 percent; Military Police Office - Ministry of Defence Office - 0.32%, Ministry of Defence Office - Military information - 0%; State Agency - Intelligence - 0%. It is noted that in 2016 the number of procedures for requests of the SANS decreased significantly, which was 19,16% in 2015 and in 2014. - 31.5%, indicating the possible causes of this. The report found that the SRS were implemented under the conditions of art. 12, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 12, para. 3 in 73 cases, which is 7,59% less than 2015 and 54.93 percent less than 2014. In 2016, the implementation of the SRS began under the conditions of art. 17 of the Special Intelligence Act, I explain, in urgent cases, beginning immediately after the permission of a judge for 685 persons, that is, about 25% of all procedures. Under the terms of art. 18 of the Law without prior permission of a judge in the immediate danger of serious intentional crimes or a threat to national security, the implementation of the SRS has started in relation to 49 persons. The report shall identify 340 cases where the special intelligence means have been used in relation to the identification of persons under the conditions of art. 12, para. 1, t. 4 of the Law. The total number of procedures for persons and objects is 3089, in which 3722 initial requests and 1113 requests for extension were made. Following a comparison with last year's data, it is concluded that the procedures increased by 5.18%, the demands - by 19.75%, by 25.9% - the requests for a continuation of the deadline. Mr. Rashkov paid special attention to the material and legal grounds for using special intelligence means the types of crimes for which the regulations allow their implementation. In the past 2016, the SRS were used most often in connection with acts under art. 321 of the Criminal Code of 2108 total, representing 42,05% of the total number; under art. 354a of the Criminal Code 702 pieces; under art. 234 of the Criminal Code " 307 pieces; under art. 195 - 235 pieces; under art. 209 of the Criminal Code "160 pieces; under art. 301 of the Criminal Code "94." On the basis of the data, it is established that the application of the SRS for an act under art. 104 of the Penal Code decreased by 14,21% compared to 2014 and by 5,41% compared to 2015. In 2016, the application of the SRS to persons and sites was carried out on the basis of 4885 authorisations, of them 3772 on initial requests and 1113 on the extension of the deadline. The comparison with the previous year shows that authorisations increased by 21.09%. In view of the division of courts, it is found that 67,74% of the total number of authorisations were granted by the Criminal Court Specialized Court, Plovdiv District Court, Stara Zagora District Court, and Blagoevgrad District Court. In the discussion of the report took part the MPs Slavcho Velkov, Dimitar Lazarov, Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Philip Popov, expressing their positive opinion on it. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held which ended with the following results: 6 votes for, without objection and abstention. On the basis of the above, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of the Special Intelligence Means and the access to data under the Electronic Communications Act proposes to the National Assembly to adopt proposals Draft for the adoption of a Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activities carried out in 2016, No 739-00-5, submitted by the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Funds on 31 May 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u70	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Mr. Velkov, your proposal is for a closed session during the discussion. You're supporting it now. According to the provisions of our Rules of Procedure in the course of a proposal for a closed session, before I give the floor to justify the proposal, I will have to ask the outsiders to leave the Chamber. [[Noise and lines.]] I guess we'll be voting first on Mr. Velkov's proposal you made. Colleagues, I specify: we are voting on the motion to close the meeting during the discussions on the report that has just been heard. They voted 182 MPs: 79, against 70, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. The sitting shall continue in accordance with the general procedure without closing this item on the agenda. Mr. Velkov, you are welcome to read the draft decision by the administration insist that it be heard before we proceed to the discussions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Presenting: Project! DECISION adopting a Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activities carried out in 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activity carried out in 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u72	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. We continue with the discussion of the Report and the Draft Decision in the open session. Please provide that the Members of the National Assembly shall comply with this circumstance and do not export from the stands data representing classified information. We begin discussions with Mr. Velkov's speech. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I will respect the conditions of an open session and will not allow myself any attempt to export classified information, that is, the one that is not intended for everyone present in the Chamber, including the media. I would like to say that in the meeting of the Commission, at which the report by Mr. Rashkov was presented, there was a presence of people who are also in the Chamber and that there were questions asked to Mr. Rashkov, but they were of a bliss and he could not answer these questions at the moment in particular. Before I ask Mr. Rashkov questions in the Chamber, without violating, again I say, the requirements of an open session, I would like to say what makes an impression in the submitted report, as many of you, I suppose, have not read it. First of all, an explicit condition is the legal requirement for the implementation of special intelligence means (SSRs), and it is the basis for committing serious intentional crimes. From then on, in the statistics that he applied to the report, Mr. Rashkov, what personally impressed me? We have adopted, that is, you, some of you have adopted a Law on Counterterrorism. We recognise modern terrorism as a major challenge and threat to national security systems and to global security. At the same time, in the Report, perhaps Mr. Rashkov would be so good to explain, I did not see a single case of applied SRS with colorful terrorism. I think that's inexplicable. Here in this room, not long ago, the Interior Minister boasted of a very large number of exposed phone frauds. On the contrary, the applied SRS with the colorful of my frauds is a little bit of the total percentage and all those members that I have read to you here, to tell you, are the most massive organized criminal groups, then narcotics, then spying and more about the others that I am telling you, including fraud. So based on that opinion, I will formulate my first question for Mr. Rashkov. Moreover, honourable Members, Mr. Rashkov shared certain difficulties in the work of the Bureau, which lead to the conclusion that someone is interfering with the work that someone does not want the Bureau to effectively carry out its duties. Let me also say something very disturbing. I hope we'll hear the answer here. I will also ask the question in particular: with the so-called BDZ, physical evidence of the court, and their storage, destruction and non-destruction, as the Bureau's report also shows that there are cases, not one, but many, when these physical evidences of the court are not destroyed within the statutory period and some are destroyed before it. In both cases, this results in severe injurious results. Because if you do not know, honourable Members, I will tell you that in one such paper-based material, there is a huge volume of data about the object to which the intelligence tool is applied, its personal life, its personal data, his family, his family, his friends. If this is not destroyed in time, it can be used not for purpose, namely to put pressure on the person. In addition, there are cases, as far as I understand it, of the unlawful use of special intelligence tools that the Bureau has identified. I will also ask the second question here: are those who have been unlawfully implemented informed whether such corrective action has been taken? Do such people prosecute those who have violated their rights? How many cases are there? And since we are in open court, I will ask Mr. Rashkov in general: who as a structure are the applicants for requests for the application of special intelligence means? I'm opening up a clamp, colleagues, and don't think that listening is the only way for a special reconnaissance device. There's eight of them. I would not like to discuss them here in this House, but the report mentioned them. There's surveillance, there's surveillance, there's outside surveillance, there's penetration, there's a secret search and whatever else you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u74	You mentioned them.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u75	No, they're in the report. The report is public, so you can see them. Most of all, I would like to ask Mr. Rashkov, and in connection with his statement a long time ago, whether there have been unlawful cases, cases of unlawful use of special intelligence, not just wiretapping, against politicians and magistrates? Whether or not we're breaking the law here, Mr. Chairman, with nothing the secret, there is an application, regardless of the time... Mr. Rashkov, please listen to me carefully! Is there an application... I always watch the guests with my left eye, it's stronger, my left eye, so to speak. Are there people who are currently in this room among those who are being used special intelligence tools, politicians? If there are presidents of parliamentary groups, if there are women among them, the others are men accordingly. [[Laughter, cheerful excitement.]] I don't see what I would do to violate the conditions for classifying information if I asked that question. These are the general questions. To ask Mr. Rashkov about the following: Mr. Rashkov, the Bureau in recent months, in recent weeks, in the last few days, if you will, is he continuing to establish cases of unlawful use of special intelligence means? Who allows, who uses this information? Are there any who say, "Go ahead and listen to them, and we can accept it as legal? " We can hear this right here. Come on with the vote, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Rashkov's opportunity to speak for names has been taken away, but I will offer something else to Mr. Rashkov. I think the whole room will accept it. Let him prepare a detailed classified report with the names and send it to the Parliament's Secret Business Office on the attention of the individual parliamentary groups, so that we can read them as much as we want. To remind her of something else. Notice, parliament, politics, government, prime minister, prosecutor all start with the letter. This is the beginning of both the "Parliamentary Republic" and the "Premier Republic" and the "Presidential Republic." Colleagues, we're not in 1984. Orwell, and the book was written in the distant 1950s. I say it quite responsibly and I declare to all of you: I am not afraid personally of me, and hopefully my colleagues, of anyone. Given that the law has been applied to me illegally or violated, I will seek my rights. Therefore, on 28 November 2017, I submitted to the Bureau an application to be checked for the unlawful application of special intelligence funds to me and my two phones. I would advise all of you to do so. If any of you are violated his rights, seek them in the Bulgarian court. Now I'll see if they'll answer me, Mr. Rashkov, duly and faithfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u76	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Are there any lines to the statement? I don't see any MPs who want it. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u77	Mr President, honourable Members, I have one question for all guests in this House. I won't be able to justify it for very long. My question is, have they been bugged, have special intelligence resources been applied to journalists, in my opinion, and not regulated? The issue is important because, when we talk about something like this, then we must also cancel the freedom of speech, provided that when journalists are tapped in such an uncontrolled way, we can say that there is no freedom of speech. I hope to receive a comprehensive answer on this subject, as this suspicion has long been in the Bulgarian society, many fellow journalists have long suspected something similar. I'm counting on the subject to be torn to shreds. Otherwise, this debate won't make any sense. It is important to know such specific things, it is important to know whether there is a hidden attack on free journalism in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u78	Thank you, Mr. Simov. - What's the line? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u79	Mr. President, honourable Members, I am taking a procedure to ask you in the debates and discussions on this Report to comply with the following circumstance. This is a Report of the National Bureau for 2016. Colleague speakers from the opposition somehow introduce continuity and infinity over time, which seems to me that when discussing this Report is unacceptable. So we're not talking about current times, we're talking about 2016. I also use the case to refer to the procedural explanations that my fellow speaker has made. If I'm being tapped illegally, I don't want the information about it being distributed to other parliamentary groups. It would be enough for me to be notified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u80	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Any other comments on the report? [[National Representative Slavcho Velkov wants the floor.]] Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u81	Thank you. What we've heard, Mr. Kirilov, is once again leading me to the idea of proposing that this meeting grow into an indoors meeting, since we're going to say things like that. Mr. Kirilov, just so you know, you are now fixing the period 2016 in the Report. Why are you afraid of the previous year, before 2016 or 2017? We're in it, aren't we? Let me tell you the following, I have found the procedure. If the applicant's request was in the middle of 2015, then it was authorised to continue and entered 2016. What, are we not going to look at it?! No matter how much you look at the books, Mr. Kirilov, here today we must answer these questions in this Chamber. Tell me, if the Bureau has established through its activities that next week in the Metropolitan House in Sofia is expected to carry out a terrorist act, but this is irrelevant by 2016 to the Report, will Mr. Rashkov not share it?! We're asking! I asked questions. If he wants to answer, he will answer. If you want to stop him from answering, that's your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u82	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Just to ask: are you formally proposing that we move on to a closed hearing?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u83	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u84	At this time, he is talking about changed circumstances under which they intend to export such ones. I'm going to put this motion to a vote. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Velkov, I am making the opposite proposal because of the following: if this report had entered initially as a closed report, we would have followed the natural logic and it would have been said yes, it is normal that the report is closed, the debate is closed. Excuse me, but our preliminary debate on the agenda for me has revealed the following circumstances: you are holding a public debate on this issue if we now close this debate, the public and the public will remain convinced that there are essential facts and circumstances to remain with this conviction.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u86	Not at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u87	In this situation, let us follow the continuous line of openness. I wanted to, and that is why I had actually asked for a personal explanation to specify the following: Your Commission is probably looking at three or four types of reports. Our Legal Committee looks at about six or seven types of reports of various bodies and institutions. The National Assembly has practice, so I took a look at this report. [[shows report]] is submitted to the Legislature of this National Assembly and yes, and that is why we are watching it. We have reports, there are many cases back in time and not for the forty-three, for the forty-two there is, for the forty-first there is when we have a break in the legislation of the National Assembly itself, so we cannot look at a report for example 2015, which has been submitted to the forty-third National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u88	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Members of Parliament, the issue of a closed meeting is again being raised at which to address this item on the agenda. I recall the text of the Rules of the National Assembly, which is binding on us: The sittings of the National Assembly are closed when important state interests impose this. By para. 3 of art. 50, which I introduce you to: "In the case of a proposal for a closed session under para. 1, t. 1 The President shall order all outsiders to leave the hall, balconies and so on. This is point one, and it concerns important state interests. So far, we don't have that hypothesis, it's not claimed to be there. In an open procedure, we should vote on the proposal whether to proceed under closed session conditions or to close the meeting. This has already been done at the very beginning of the debates. In relation to these clarifications that I have given and the claim that there are new circumstances in the debate that has already begun, I am putting to the vote again in order to be absolutely calm in the correctness of the decision that we are going to take. I put to the vote the motion to close the sitting from now on, to close the sitting... Mr. Velkov's proposal. They voted 182 MPs: 82, against 75, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. Here you are, Mr. Kutev, for revoting.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u89	Just to justify it without getting to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u90	Yeah. I would ask you to tell me why you want a re-vote this is the justification of your procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like a re-vote because, in my opinion, Mr. Kirilov, in the procedure of the very request for a vote, made suggestions that could not help but mislead the House, namely the fact that, when the sitting was opened, people would learn everything.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u92	Mr. Kutev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u93	You know very well, Mr. Kirilov, that this is not true in this case.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u94	That's basically it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u95	The idea that it should be reworded now is because you then misled the House, and not just the Hall, but the people who are watching us now. We've known each other a long time, there's-there's not 15 years ago, and I know your options very well. What you're doing right now is case studies, and I remind you of times...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u96	Mr. Kutev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u97	...when we were on the same side together, then you didn't do that kind of thing. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u98	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. I did not hear a proposal for a re-vote based on a particular reason.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u99	Yeah, there wasn't.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u100	There's no re-voting. That was kind of a line. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] Do you insist on that? [[Heckling]] All right, re-voting Mr. Velkov's proposal for or against him, the meeting will continue as closed. Vote 180 MPs: 80 against 84 abstentions 16. The offer is not accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, we are continuing our work with the discussion of the report. Any other Members of the National Assembly wishing to speak? You have the floor. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues, Dear Guests! I am not a member of the Commission for Control of Services and Special Intelligence, but I have bothered to read the Report. At the very least, because as a Member of the National Assembly, I am interested to make the information published in it available to the Bulgarian citizens and, accordingly, the MPs to be informed about how our services work with regard to the application of special intelligence means. Moreover, on this topic, I was interested in media presentations regarding possible violations, data for politicians, magistrates and so on, information that interests not only the MPs, but also the whole Bulgarian society, because this topic is extremely sensitive. I was personally surprised by the recent weeks that this topic was coming back on the agenda, I thought that this thing was forgotten somewhere in the past, in the period 2010 - 2011, when the huge number of special intelligence devices admitted, the extremely low number of material evidences made in court, and the assessment of the Bulgarian citizens that they were very seriously monitored and controlled in their personal lives, especially during the period when, unfortunately, it was not here today, Mr. Tsvetanov was Minister of Interior. In my report, I was impressed that indeed since then there has been a drop in the request and the admission of permission for special intelligence means and for 2016 4885 have been given, which according to the Commission report, we have some sustainability in their decline. It also gives the impression that, on the basis of these 4885 permissions to implement the SRS, 1431 material evidences have been drawn up that have entered the court, which means that we again have a low percentage of the applied and have reached a judicial stage of evidence that has served... In other words, not a small part of the applied special intelligence means has once again been ineffective, if I may say so. It is also evident from the Report that the biggest applicant is the Ministry of Interior.. The minister is here if he has something to add we will be happy to hear it. Last but not least, I was impressed by the part "Protect citizens' rights and freedoms for the unlawful implementation of the SRS." Here it is clear that for 2016 there are five of these clearly established, at least so is recorded, and 88 files and checks for the wrongfulness of the implementation of the SRS have been formed, and for the entire two-year period 2014 - 2016 19 cases have been established, and it is written here that they have been applied to magistrates - there are four magistrates and four citizens. I rather worry that there is no information in this report that has been released in the media by the head of the Bureau Mr. Rashkov that 10% of these 4885, if that's how I understand it, maybe I misunderstood it, I hope so, are politicians, journalists, magistrates and so on. This means that we have a serious boom of serious crimes in these circles, or we have a tendency again to control these particular circles of politicians, journalists and magistrates. I sincerely regret that the majority here today did not show common sense and declare this meeting closed so that we can hear the really objective truth what is going on....................................that there is such a trend here....... and that there is such a trend and that we are returning to those times of 2010................. when it was mass practice and here it was called by our fellow Members of the majority...................................................... Today was the time for you to clean this stain and show the Bulgarian citizens that there is no such moment. Unfortunately, in our country there remains the deep doubt that we are going back there and I see no good reason for you to be afraid if there are no such things. The very fact that there continue to be such cases of unauthorised wiretap is also extremely suspicious. Let me just say: I, too, submitted such a request to the Bureau in 2014 because I had received information that such a wiretap was being made. For no one it is a secret, at least for those people who are aware that there are dozens of ways a person, even if it is not found in crime his contacts and his being in public space, to be tracked one way or another through other persons. I was expecting to avoid details today, because obviously today's meeting is not classified, and this information is extremely important. There are colleagues here who are in this Commission and very well know what it is about to find ways, tools, to be controlled and heard persons to whom certain circles are interested. It is extremely important for us to learn here and from which services this uncontrolled wiretap is carried out. You know that such a thing is carried out by both the State Agency and the State Agency of National Security, where these things are priority. You know that it is a practice to track down certain individuals and to apply the means of special intelligence means to monitor others without going into details. Again, I appeal to common sense, gentlemen in charge, clear these doubts that we have on you today and society, and allow this meeting to actually become closed down and be able to hear here. I don't really know why Mr. Kirilov invited here today and wasting his time, if in this room we will not hear and hear specific information, the Attorney General, who I am convinced is overwhelmed by work, and the President of the DANS, and the President of the DATO, and the Interior Minister, and so on. Why were they called here? With a large pathos this morning, they were called to appear, and they appeared here in the hall. In this situation aside from this Report, I do not see what we can hear from them.. in fact, if we have evidence of any violations, any such disturbing facts that would question the work of the services. Last but not least, at the end of the day, with the vote on this report, with the debates on it, we need to get a real idea of what the situation is and what is happening and what was being exported to the public is whether it is true. I hope here in their speeches and in front of those who were invited to enlighten us on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u102	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I recall that not once, but twice, the House voted to make the sitting public. Let's not get back to that. Replies to Mr. Ivanov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? [[Heckling]] Mr. Ermenkov, come in. I think the guests will mark these questions, and if they want to be treated. I'll invite them specifically. They're right at any time. Mr. Ermenkov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u103	First, I'll ask for an extension of the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u104	Increase the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, you are invited to attend the meeting! I think this Parliament meeting is extremely important because a public secret is that in society the opinion that everyone listens to everyone. Several scandals were broken, and there were lawsuits. Let me remind you of art. 34b of the Special Intelligence Means Act. In this article, which regulates the work of the Bureau, in general terms, if you read it, you will understand that with this Law we have made a Bureau, which is more statistical than having any specific powers, so at least I read the text that we have adopted. I therefore have a question, and I hope that the Bureau will answer this question. In the performance of its duties, as it is written here: to monitor the procedures for authorisation, application, use, destruction, storage and so on of the information of the special means of intelligence and to protect citizens' rights and freedoms against the unlawful use of the special means of intelligence has the Bureau submitted and how many signals to the competent authorities? What were the results of the signals being transmitted? How many of them have received further development? Is there any feedback to the Bureau from the authorities to which these signals are sent, so we know that we are not currently looking at statistics on how much percentage has increased, how many people we have been listening to, and so on, this is important, but there is no way to discuss it in an open session. And the last question I would like to ask the Bureau, and what may be the work of Parliament, is: is there a need for further changes in the relevant legal regulation for the Bureau's work to ensure its more efficient control activity, not just on monitoring? Otherwise, observers are very much, and we are talking about an activity that affects freedom of speech that affects the ability to manipulate information, manipulate behavior and put into different dependencies. These are my questions, and if it is possible, within and within the open hearing procedure, to receive an answer, I would be very grateful.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u106	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there lines? I won't. I don't see any requests for speeches. Are there any Members of Parliament willing to speak? I won't. I am told by the House of Members to invite the persons present at the meeting, if they wish and have this opportunity, to give a sign to take the floor and comment on questions or their views on the Report. Are there any guests who would like to speak? Mr. Rashkov has the floor of the President of the National Bureau for Control of the SRS.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, honored guests in this sitting! The situation is a little overwhelming because for the first time the Bureau's Special Intelligence Control Report is in the Chamber. You've made my participation easier. I won't mention names. I will move on to some comments on our report and try to answer the questions that have been asked me. Including I would like to address issues that have not found a place in the Report, and for objective reasons, because the Law report should normally contain aggregated data. There are very serious problems with limitation not from this year. 2017 but there are also from this year, which is reported in the following year, and about the time back. I think it is high time to discuss these issues, because the Bureau's mandate now, after New Year's Eve, is in the last fifth year. And if we don't place them now, they'll never be placed. However, I think there is much more to be done in the remaining time. It is true, it seems to me that you agree, and I sense public attitudes in various formats, that there is serious approval of the Bureau's work, that there is otherwise the procedures relating to the secret surveillance of the people of our country, and not as to the creation of the Bureau, when I can honestly say that it has been total chaos, absolute chaos! Including some of our findings cannot be from yesterday, because we cannot tell citizens when they submit an application, when they should have been tapped. This is underway, this could have been a year ago, two years ago, five years ago. There's another problem, I won't miss sharing it with you. The general thing I can say, which is shared and commented briefly and in the meeting of the relevant parliamentary committee, is that the procedures in our country after 2015 mark a reduction, if I may say so. I think it's about stabilizing the number. I would remind those who are not inside the matter that Bulgaria was convicted in 2007 by the European Court of Justice for excessive use in view of the country's scale of secret ways of controlling people. On this basis, major changes to the legislation were made in 2008 and 2009. It was created, including this Law and guarantees, which recommended that the European Court of Human Rights, so that this Law can act in such a way as to protect against misuse of secret ways that restrict unconstitutional fundamental human rights in our country. I believe that the Bureau has contributed to this very much with its work. I believe that they have been restrained to a certain extent, not 100%, those who have a tendency, I would say have totalitarian attitudes to observe people will and will not. I'm saying this very responsibly. Therefore, there is a slight increase in the number of persons in respect of whom various operational tools constituting special intelligence means were undertaken in 2016. So far, this increase is not on such a scale as to be any concern. In addition, I would like to assure you that the views of fellow Members of the Bureau have always been the following: this is a necessary tool; this is a necessary evil in countering crime. If we notice a slight increase in quantity, the number of procedures, we explain it to each other with the operational situation not only in the country but also outside. Once again, this should not bother us, because you yourselves see from the Report that there is a certain increase in the number of procedures, although compared to six or seven years ago it is obvious, it is necessary to conclude that there is a drastic reduction in these procedures and I would say that we have introduced a legal order which we should have had before in this delicate area. I would like to draw your attention to a few questions from the report itself, and if there is time, Mr. President will probably remind us, I will give answers to the questions that have been asked me. I'd like to look at some of these. As you can see, the report draws attention to the substantive legal bases, which means for what crime under our Law the use of special intelligence means is allowed at all. These are serious crimes committed, which are specifically referred to in the Law. In this section of our Report you can very clearly see that above all it is about organized criminal groups, which slightly disturbs me and I will tell you why. It's a recent phenomenon, I'd say a phenomenon about me. What does it mean by 1,000 more procedures and authorisations compared to the previous accounting year of the procedures relating to authorisations granted by the Specialized Criminal Court? I am personally a person who has spent more than 30 years dealing with a criminal lawsuit, and do you know what kind of answer it is in my mind that I'm going to share? Bulgaria is becoming almost a state of organized criminal groups. This is my analysis.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u108	It's not a lie.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u109	There is, of course, another explanation. The other explanation is that it seems that in the Special Court, which is competent now to rule on such requests, is seen slightly differently, for example, by the Sofia City Court. I don't know why that is. And another thing that seems to seem a little off the subject, but I will share it with you, as you have made some changes with which you have increased the jurisdiction of the Specialized Criminal Court and the Specialized Court it seems to me that it is beginning to become a main court with a huge number of cases I say this also from my immediate impressions, as only three weeks ago I was on inspection there. Their actions stand in the corridors, now increased by one number of vice-presidential places to improve the work on requests for special intelligence, as you can see, there is no such other court. In practice, according to this criterion, the specialized court replaced the Sofia City Court two years ago. I would like to remind you that then one of the excuses for those admitted, I would say, thousands of violations in the Sofia City Court under these procedures was that he, the Sofia City Court, was very busy. Now we've achieved the same effect. We give an argument to our colleagues at the Special Court to say that the volume is huge, and they might make a mistake somewhere. Just a week ago, I sent a letter of similar content to the Supreme Judicial Council. These days I see, perhaps we have also helped with something that has increased the state by a number of people who are immediately doing this job, which takes them an extremely long time. Make a breakdown of the time it takes to examine and resolve these requests legally. I do not want to believe that the overload of this Court also aims to limit the possibility of judges being able to accurately read the materials and give legal permissions. We have a case in which one colleague, who was Vice-President of the Court, refused to authorize, after a week of the same materials, we have permission. This case is extremely serious and is part of the problem that has stood since this year in the interaction, if I may say so, between the Bureau and the State Agency of National Security. Take a look at something else: how many are the refusals of the judges of the Sofia City Court! The ratio is one to two, which is indicative. There are about 300 requests addressed to the Sofia City Court, 200 refusals, ninety or one hundred permissions. I'll share with you, I've read these rejections. They are full of evidence, what can I say, in order not to be very strong, let me say for contempt of the Law, not to say ignorance. They deal with judges with demands that don't respond to legal props and so on. They have not yet learned which crimes they are competent to make demands to the competent court. There are dozens of similar cases. They have not learned, when preparing a request, which is the competent court to consider it.................................................................................................................. This is how time is wasted, the judge is concerned because, I would like to tell you, a refusal by a judge from the Sofia City Court is an average of between 2 and 5 pages. They are currently, after the case Yaneva, writing the refusals as motivated as I will joke, not motivating their other legal acts. In the Specialized Court, the refusals are 30% if you pay attention: 30% rejections, 30% marriage of requests from all applicants possible. I'm including the D.A.'s office, unfortunately, because they're my co-workers. The prosecution is the second applicant in number in the state for requests. Often we say, or somewhere it says this: in the Ministry of Interior and in the State Agency of National Security, you see, they make mistakes because people are not lawyers, those who have the authority to make such demands to the court. When you see the statistics, it's quite offensive for our legal profession to see how colleagues align themselves with the police chiefs of this criterion. One more thing, I think, not a big deal. When you look at the crimes for which the use of special intelligence means is sought, you will see that in terms of corruption, which we most often associate directly and directly with bribery, the demands are so few that I personally cannot explain the need to create a body to fight corruption, special. Look, compared to 2015, it fell in 2016, that is to say we want to create a.. You are almost at the finish line, to make an authority to fight corruption exactly. But so far, the services that have had opportunities to counteract corruption, which has different forms, of course, not just bribery, to counteract. [[GERB lines.]] What prevents them from discovering it by special intelligence means, and saying: "Because the problem is very big in the country, we are using a much larger number of operational means of special intelligence means? " No. I'm asking myself that question. You're the politicians, you'll say we need it, we don't need it. I direct your attention only to this point in our report, nothing more I say. The question of the so-called tangible funds is always discussed. Always! From a minimum number a few years ago, now are, I would say, approximately a little less as a number of 1431 pieces in 2016, which to a very large extent also corresponds to the number of requests. This is a relative criterion, so we cannot draw general conclusions. I'll tell you why: if the subject of a special means does not speak on the phone, you cannot make a record. That doesn't mean we didn't have reason to want to use a special reconnaissance tool, but we haven't had a chance to draw, we're missing the final result, which we're going to use in court. The man is guarded, it's similar to the search you are going to do a search in a house with the expectation of finding, but there is no object. You have done what was necessary, you have done, but you have not achieved the expected result. Compared to previous years, however, this indicator shows a lot of progress, which means what? We can conclude that much deeper discussions are being made on the materials received by the special service State Agency........................................................................................ They are carefully examined, there is a fact that would serve as evidence in the process and the preparation of material evidence is requested. That was missing in previous years, and we have to admit that. [[Comments from GERB: "This is a political statement. "]] Don't replicate me, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u110	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u111	I don't make a political statement when I complete the analysis... I'm sorry, I'm not a politician...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u112	Mr. Rashkov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u113	Mr. Chairman, if you think I'm making a political statement, I'll step out of the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u114	I'm paying attention! There must be no lines to the speaker from this House! That's a rule. The orators and guests are not limited in time, so I'm not interrupting Mr. Rashkov. Please pay attention to his opinion on the report. Then we have the opportunity to take attitude. Order, please! Here you go, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u115	Thank you. I just wanted to take you out and give you an idea about the physical evidence. Perhaps you will see this as a political statement, too?! There are cases where the preliminary materials collected by the State Agency, which are on different media, are destroyed without making material evidence. This is what I shared with the Commission when reporting there. This means that, for example, the prosecutor who made the request and is an applicant receives a preliminary information from the technical service and chooses those facts that he needs for the prosecution thesis. But there are other participants in the process. They also have an interest in the outcome of the case, and we should do so, perhaps in the case of amendments to the Law, so as to enable at a certain time other interested parties, I repeat, to be able to use these materials from the outcome of the case. So there is also an option here to shorten this procedure, which, I assure you, is very heavy and it seems to me that the world is missing, there is none. That's why I'm stopping here. We could discuss this in the specialized Commission. I think I have supporters for this idea, and I think I have positions that understand matter very well. I will now make a political statement. But he's not here. I'm kidding. You were scared. Don't be scared! There's no Mr. Tsvetanov. That's his case. In 2014, it was of appropriate procedural quality. I got a call from his defense attorney, Nenkov. The Bureau was then operational and the man asked Mr. Tsvetanov's defender to get acquainted with the materials that were collected from the special intelligence tools used against him. It's not a state secret, it's in the case, and he knows it well. Then it turned out, when we checked that the materials that interested the defender were destroyed. They're gone. In other words, only one subject, only the accuser, the state prosecutor, had familiarized himself with these materials. In such a way, with the destruction of these materials, we deprive the protection of the opportunity to get acquainted and if there is anything with facts to support its defensive position, to use in the process. That's what this is about, not anything else! Such cases, of course, there are thousands of them under the current Law. Then, if we provide the applicant with a CD, for example, with the recording, this disk remains in the case, the State Agency will not draw up such materials that we are now reporting to everyone will be able to track the disk, listen to it, see it if it is a videotape, and use this material to justify their position. It is true that in the Report we have pointed out, on the fingers of one hand, the number of persons for whom we have found unlawful use and application of special intelligence means. But here's something that's just below the surface. It must be known that the Bureau can announce how many persons it has notified of unlawful enforcement, of course, but there are many other persons in respect of whom there has been an irregularity in their procedures, but the Bureau has not decided to notify them. This is derived from the Law. In this sense, and in order to be shorter, because it has been my speech for quite a long time, I would like, using here and the presence of the Minister of Interior, to say the following: this is the case we have for nine persons in respect of whom a national office has made a request to the court for permission to use special means of intelligence to escape from prison. The text of art. The Criminal Code does not allow the use of special intelligence resources. It does not allow, since the crime is not severe, deliberate, but light. However, permission was, unfortunately, granted and procedures had been carried out. We have notified the relevant Director of the Service of this finding. I received a very strange letter: why do we think it is wrong to apply, which puzzled me because this man is signing requests to the court? It is he who sends the request for authorisation to the court, and he is in fact the head of that structure. Hence, from the question he asked me, it was more than clear to me that he did not know the Law. By establishing such a fact why there are irregular procedures, it is a question that does not need a specific answer. Secondly, in such a hypothesis, it is customary for us at the Bureau to discuss the issue of informing these persons? For this purpose, in order for us to be calm in this direction, we have made a request to this chief of police. He said we shouldn't notify them. It's up to you to think about why, how, and so on. In parallel, we are obliged by law to establish such violations, to make a notification, to inform the Prosecutor's Office. We have decided in any case not to notify the prosecution, but the Attorney General. We've notified the Attorney General. We have received a decree from a prosecutor from the City Prosecutor's Office with conclusions that do not rest on the Law, let me put it this way. True, these texts could not, but they wanted to establish their location, and the Law does not say "place of residence" but says "personality" something that is very different. In this regard, we also have serious problems with the State Agency "National Security" because the largest number, I would say, poor, vicious demands in recent past times have been cooked from there. It was in connection with such violations that the former chairman of the Sofia City Court Yaneva was also removed from court. Since we, honourable MPs, have identified several hundred similar violations, as of Yaneva, to me as a lawyer with long practice and theory, and scientific teaching, the question arises: Do we have a double standard in our country when assessing violations of the Law with the same nature and form? Yaneva has about thirty violations, but went to court for one. One of her deputies has 110 violations, and I don't know if anyone has anything to do with it. Another replacement has 15 or 20... also nothing. And so on. In this direction I can inform you that I do not think that we are receiving the necessary assistance, and quickly, from the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. Moreover, there is an opinion from the Attorney General that we, you see, should not read the materials on which the requests are based, which are sent for permission to the competent court. This is not a question for the House. I asked the Special Committee hearing last week to schedule a special meeting on this issue because the Bureau's activities have been blocked. By the way, of these three cases in respect of which we have been formally denied by a letter from the President of the SANS to familiarize ourselves with the materials, and only those on which the request is based, in this regard we wish a discussion, but the meeting was postponed until after January 15th next year. I'm gonna cut the fair a little short, 'cause I can see it's going on... [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u116	I'm really asking that we be more difficult.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u117	We have alerted the prosecution in connection with 8 000 authorized by a court operating tools for implementation, but not implemented by the State Agency for Technical Operations and without any reasons, without any grounds being raised. By law, that authority, where it considers that it cannot apply, shall notify the authorising authority and the applicant. Neither is done nor is done. I just want to remind you that Mr. Tsvetanov was accused of several refusals, but he had the courage to sign that he refused the application of a special intelligence tool. There's no signature here, there's absolutely no reaction. [[GERB lines.]] No reaction.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u118	I can't interrupt the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u119	In addition, it has been found that until 2013, when the evidence was absolutely secret and after that period, in our country, physical evidence was destroyed, including................................................................................................................................................. The Bureau has informed the Prosecutor General there is no reaction; the Supreme Court of Cassation followed an instruction to the courts; the State Commission for Information Security and the State Agency of National Security. Where a classified material is destroyed, at least one inspection should be carried out if pre-trial proceedings are not initiated. Let us recall that criminal proceedings were initiated for a politician, not for destruction, but for the loss of documents. There is no reaction here from the State Agency of National Security, which is required under the Law on the Protection of Classified Information to rule on the matter: is there any reason for withdrawing anyone's access to this case? There is no reaction either from the NSA or the State Commission for Security of Information. [[Request for a procedure by the National Representative Manoil Manev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u120	Mr. Rashkov, I really can't interrupt you under the rules, but I must remind you... [[GERB lines.]] Because there's no time limit. Let's focus... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Excuse me, Mr. Gokov. We are discussing the 2016 Report. This is the note I have for the speaker, and please return to this item on the agenda on which we need to take a decision. Nothing more. Go ahead, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u121	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u122	Excuse me, I can't give a speech procedure. [[GERB lines.]] I took the liberty of interrupting. Don't ever... [[Noise and lines.]] Order, please! Take your seats. Mr. Rashkov, continue with the speech. You have no time limit, I repeat this, you have the opportunity. Please take your seats. [[Replications from the National Representative Manoil Manev.]] The speech is from the stands. You're disturbing the court. I'll have to deal with your behavior.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u123	I would say that with what I have said so far, I have been able to answer some of the questions that have been asked to me, namely: the second question of the People's Representative Velkov for the storage, destruction and so on of the physical evidence. This, I think, was a serious argument, including I made a suggestion, I gave you an idea that we could together, we would assist in changing the Law for good, if I may say so. The first question was: is there any special means with colorful terrorism? I cannot answer this question because it is clear from our report that this text of the Law does not. I want to tell you that in Germany there are 300 cases of terrorism in the prosecution. Three hundred cases at the moment. And it's arson terrorism, blowing up, and so on and so forth. We don't have cases like this in our house. So I answered the question: have all those who have been wrongly used with special intelligence means been informed? No, they haven't been notified, because somewhere we've judged that they shouldn't be notified. For example, we have asked DANS what is their opinion on the forthcoming issue of discussion at the Bureau to inform the Bureau that there is no doubt that special intelligence means have been applied to it. There are dozens of cases like this, unfortunately. As regards: who are the applicants, and that is what I mentioned. Some of them, of course, belong to the Ministry of Interior. Another part of the State Agency is National Security. And one more thing about one of those issues. We at the Bureau can no longer guarantee a hundred per cent of citizens that we can make a complete check whether they have been subject to a restriction on their rights by special intelligence means for one reason this year we have found that the answers given to us by the implementing bodies do not correspond to the truth. Let me put it this way. In eight cases, we have found undisputed that they have not responded to the Bureau whether or not to X special intelligence means have been used. One of these cases is a former politician who stood in this room. He's doing a lawsuit under the State Responsibility Act. We've notified him. And a fellow magistrate, as he has been subjected several times to special intelligence means to establish, if possible, the connection of this magistrate to a politician in this room. I believe there is an answer to Mr. Ermenkov's question: how many signals are there? They are hundreds of signals, as the violations are hundreds. The point is that there is silence on those notified by the Bureau, starting with the Supreme Judicial Council, passing through the Attorney General, through the Minister of Interior, the President of the SANS. So much for that. And now, Mr. Chairman, I'm graduating. [[Elevator bell dings]] with one request: give me a chance for a few sentences about the case.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u124	A few sentences. I can't interrupt. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u125	What's that?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u126	Really brief and quite clear what has to do with the work and the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u127	I'm saying this because some people are now claiming it has nothing to do with the report. There is. There is, because we, in the middle of the year, were left with one member of the Bureau, which made our work terribly difficult. And by a man who is an exceptional lawyer and a very good specialist. They call him somewhere in the same office that he influenced the Bureau. Interestingly, if such people with such legal experience and practice do not influence decision making, who? Who? Second, he had been helping people to write requests. Among them were defendants and defendants. With regard to accused persons, most often the SRS is used and they release applications. One of these defendants and defendants is the judge from Varna Svetlozar Georgiev, who had seen in the case that he had used and applied special intelligence means, but this is used as an argument to deprive him of access. And for the finale, I'll say something else to give you a very real idea. There, I don't know why, my family is involved and it is indicated that my wife lives and works in a Varna village with which she has nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u128	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u129	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u130	Dear Members of Parliament, we have heard the statement of the Director of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence. This is the item on the agenda. We've invited Mr. Rashkov for this. We have given the opportunity, according to the Rules, to make the exhibition in the volume and time it finds good. Please keep this in mind for the reactions you will take with regard to its exposure. This one, first. Secondly, the time for the recess hearing has come. Given the signs that there will be both an exhibition and speeches [[GERB lines]] , and the fact that the parliamentary groups, with the exception of the BSP Group, have their full speaking time, I ask you to take a post-speech attitude and then vote on the report. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. [[After the break]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u131	Dear Members of Parliament, please take your seats in the Chamber. Quaestors, invite the MPs. We shall continue with the debates on this point. 1. Two requests for a procedure, probably? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take this procedure in the manner of conduct only motivated by the fact that... Don't you feel... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm sure you don't feel anything! Can't you feel the double archin? I mean, we have unlimited speaking time for our guests. That's okay, that's the rules, there's no harm...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u133	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u134	...but when the President of the National Assembly supposes the first among equals, he can use his chair and treat the MPs with directions, opinions, opinions and does not do so with regard to the guests, of which, by the way, I have heard today a refresher lecture from the First Faculty of the Ministry of Interior how the SRS is used. Secondly, we have not heard a single specific answer. And thirdly, Mr. Chairman, sitting from this tribune, our guest leaves a deep concern in all of you, I hope colleagues that here in this Chamber there is a MP who was the subject of the SRS, without specifying whether this SRS was legally used in relation to it and if it was used illegally, was he warned within the meaning of Art. 34g? [[Replys from the right.]] And was he notified of this SRS? If a colleague has been informed, stand up and say: "I have been illegally bugged. " - And if he hasn't, I very much want to understand why he hasn't been notified? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And from then on, it has nothing to do with the closed session and the undisclosed meeting. The notification is personal to whoever was the victim of this. So, Mr. Chairman, this is my request to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u135	Mr. Manev, I have heard your recommendation carefully. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u136	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Guests, Dear Members! I have two objections: to the part of your meeting and the hearing of the President of the National Bureau. We attended one, I will not say academic, it was a highly presentational lecture, in which we understood the personal views of this Commissioner, including we were convinced of his infinite value and of the absolute need for him to receive a next term as President of this Bureau. First of all, I can't accept that you let him deviate from the Report. I warned and asked us to monitor the period of time to which the report refers. That didn't work out. The orator of the Bureau spoke against the legislature before the legislature itself with unacceptable comments regarding the amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, including with a clear negative, negative projection in relation to one of the courts, regarding the decisions we are taking. Where was this chairman this summer to stand up for this position in the Legal Commission? When will he come to the Legal Commission when we discuss the resources provision of the Specialized Criminal Court. I think that's what they make the suggestion, colleagues, the truth doesn't win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u137	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I would like to note that regarding the analysis of Mr. Rashkov's speech, the parliamentary group has time. You can do this analysis in the form of speech. As regards calls to violate the Rules of Procedure and to interrupt the speaker who is able to take the floor at any time, allow me not to follow such a procedure. The other guests will also speak. The same procedure and the same approach will be applied to them. You have the floor, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u138	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! I'll take the floor in the manner of conduct. I'm not a lawyer, but I have infinite respect for this extraordinary and very important profession because it's the backbone. Since I know Mr. Rashkov's wife, Maria Rashkova, and her name has been involved here, I ask you not to discuss anything other than the Report, because Maria Rashkova herself is an outstanding lawyer, an infinitely quality and good person, and it is hardly exactly the subject that we need to discuss here. I'm just gonna ask you not to discuss other things beyond the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u139	Thank you for this clarification and this call to the entire room. We'll continue our discussions. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Minister of Internal Affairs Mr. Radev said he wanted to take the floor. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor because you invited me. I've been here all morning listening to everything. I regret that there is not a large part of the relevant Commission that was at the meeting and know the details. But since it is spoken in general and the sitting is open, let me introduce you to some numbers and tell you about the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior on the 2016 Report of the National Bureau. As applicants, the SRS is using the main departments of the Ministry of Interior, the Directorate-General of National Police, the Directorate-General of Border Police, the Directorate-General for Organized Crime, the Sofia Directorate of Interior, the Directorate of Home Affairs and all regional departments of the Ministry of Interior. They say the relevant SRS. We want the SRS to explain in a broad sense what this means, only for serious intentional crimes. We don't share people with politicians or journalists or anyone else. If there's any doubt about such serious intentional crimes, we want the SRS. The relevant court authorises them according to what the request is.. One goes to the specialized courts, the other goes to the regional courts. I declare that so far we have no illegal use of the period I am talking about, the SRS of the Ministry of Interior. The statistics are this: 70% are approved, 30% are returning us. In our opinion, according to colleagues who state these special intelligence tools, the efficiency is around 20%. We are currently struggling with the refusals to be less, to be more careful. Here we heard Mr. Rashkov say some remarks. I would just like to point out to you that out of all of his remarks, which he said were 287, which is probably how the report wrote, three of them are at the Ministry of Interior, a little less than 1%. I've been looking for them through the phone since morning, calling the Ministry, because it's about a period I haven't been there, and I can't find those letters, but we'll find those notes. We've probably taken some kind of attitude towards them, and we'll be fine. We have focused on not refusing, to be much more, as he has given examples, and as our services, of course, also see some shortcomings, to be more operational, more accurate when we want to use the relevant specialized means, there is no return from the court. I end up with the fact that the court is actually the one who decides what we do. The sentence I remember from him is that there's nothing disturbing about the report. Those were his words. I have the same information from my Deputy Minister, who was present at this meeting where the report was addressed, and experts in the field and the entire Commission were present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u141	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Are there any guests? I see a sign from Mr. Tsatsarov, come in. The word is the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u142	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House! I had absolutely no intention or desire to speak, not because I have nothing to say, but because I believe that this tribune is a place for the MPs, and we have only the status of guests. I raised my hand and asked for the floor after, I admit, the statement of the President of the National Bureau. I will try to be very brief, I will try not to give legal lectures right before you, but I cannot fail to answer some of the things that the facts have been presented deeply false, unfortunately. I'll start with what Mr. Velkov finished with. On several occasions, I think on three occasions, you used the word color: colorful fraud, colorful terrorism. Of course, unfortunately, perhaps ours, not yours, because the National Assembly is a place of politics, the main one, or at least 80% of what was heard in this House, had political beauty. Unfortunately, what had to be legally painted, with all due respect to the personalities of fellow Members who spoke, was deprived of a lot of legal beauty. And just one remark to you, Mr. Velkov, if I may, of course: the SRS has no secret search. There is no such term in the Law. To go on. I think you have been painted with an apocalyptic picture of mass violations, in which my colleagues sitting in the last row of DANS, DATO or colleagues from the Ministry of Interior, I mean the professional leadership with which we work every day, generally silent, and the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence turns out to be the only institution that knows the law, interprets the law correctly, observes the law and fights against our outrage. With all due respect, that's not true. I have to say two things that I think are important. Firstly, according to the Law, and you are the people who pass the law, and you are the people who have the authority to amend it, but the law is what it is now, this Bureau can only monitor the enforcement, authorisation procedures and so on. Don't get me wrong, it's not my call to restrict the powers of the Bureau or the territory of its control. It's the law. If a court order, order of a judge, is binding on all the prosecutors, an officer of the Ministry of Interior, President of the DATO, President of the National Bureau. The Bureau shall not have the right to revise with its own acts. And this is the basis of the rule of law. It turns out that the institutions end up in silence. Several times I was accused of silence. As a colleague who claims that he has been practicing for a long time, Mr. Rashkov should know the following: the signal - regardless of who the President is holding by, by a member of the Bureau or so, reaches the Office of the Prosecutor General, but it is not dealt with by the Attorney General. It is sent under the Rules of the Law on the Judiciary and the Code of Criminal Procedure of the relevant competent first instance prosecutor. This prosecutor's act is subject to control, which is also instant. There's no Bureau alert that hasn't received a response from a prosecutor in the form of a prosecutor's order. When this prosecutor's decree is a waiver, and it's in the huge number of cases, it's obvious that the prosecution didn't find any evidence of a crime. A word of advice to my colleague who's been writing me these letters. When there is a discontent with a prosecutor's decree, this discontent is expressed not again by an angry letter to the Prosecutor General, but by a complaint to the upper instance or at least a signal. I am accustomed to everything, but I cannot accept the tone and qualifications that have been given for the professional qualities of my colleagues and for levelling them to the knowledge and skills of police chiefs. This is not only because I respect my colleagues and protect them whenever they are right, but because I also respect the employees of the Ministry of Interior, whether they are superiors or not. That is precisely why, and because of your upbringing and respect for you, the people in this room, I will not give an assessment of the legal decorations of what you just heard. But I cannot accept that my colleagues are assessed in such a way, even though questions have been raised, although these questions have not been asked to me. I didn't hear an answer to two basic and essential questions, so I'm going to take the liberty of giving them to myself. Eavesdropping on journalists no. Mass eavesdropping of politicians, magistrates, journalists, no. The fact that we are in open court is not at all an excuse to say that there may be, but because the sitting is open, because a short time ago it has been said that I will not mention names, is the claim that 10% of all refer to journalists, politicians or magistrates are simply deeply false. Why are the highest number of permissions to use the SRS in the Specialized Court? Because the Specialized Court issues permissions for organized criminal groups, and one criminal group is a minimum of three people by law, and there are cases where it reaches 35 people. Why are they disparagingly small, too, Mr. Velkov, your question, the SRS about frauds you talked about the phone scams. Well, because they act in the context of organized criminal groups and because the demands fall into that column. My assessment of my colleagues from the DANS and the DATO. I'll put it in one sentence. I'm not gonna be their lawyer because I'm sure they'll say what they can. I believe that they are applying the Law correctly. I believe that the allegations of violations by the DANS, the DATO for false information and so on, have first received a prosecutor's response in the form of a prosecutor's decree, secondly, are deeply speculative. Eight thousand ways not implemented by the DATO. This sensation was just said. It was not mentioned, however, that in this case it was cases where it was not for DATO to voluntarily execute the judgment but in cases where the execution of that judgment was found to be virtually impossible. SRS is allowed for five phone numbers, it turns out he doesn't use three anymore. The SRS is allowed for tracking, it appears that the person has revealed the persons or employees who are after him. In this case, how should the method be applied? Sounds too much, how can I say, bombasticly eight thousand unenforced ways. Double arsin. Vladimira Yaneva accused and convicted. Deputy Chairman of the Sofia City Court with 110 violations untapped by the Prosecutor's Office. The truth is very simple. The former President of Sofia City Court (Sofia) Kaloyan Topalov threw a report into the public domain. This report was sent to the prosecution. On this report, pre-trial proceedings were initiated. Until now, the efforts of the monitoring prosecutor continue to obtain all documents that are allegedly a violation of the law, requests and permissions of the SRS, and they are stubbornly not provided by the Sofia City Court. This raises the question of how much this report corresponds to the truth, but this clearly means that we do not show double archin. It's just that a bomb was thrown into the public domain, and then we're still having correspondence with the court, do we have the right to receive the materials that they've signaled us about, or should we believe a report that was drafted by two vice-presidents? One big question is what right do they have to check out their fellow Vice-Presidents, and isn't that the right of the National Bureau, and isn't that the right of the State Commission on Information Security? It is not true that there are no special means of intelligence for terrorism. Yes, I know the situation in Germany, even because I spoke to the federal prosecutor last week, but I hope that's not a comparison where Germany has 300 terrorism cases, and we don't. We have cases of terrorism, we have special intelligence tools that are used for terrorism, and in the end, I sign them myself under the provisions of the Law. So to claim that this is gone, it's just speculation. In view of this, I think that by excluding the answers to these questions, I repeat clearly, I will not give personal assessments, I will not give personal assessments and legal qualities, although those were given, I took the liberty of doing so only to protect my colleagues from the prosecution and the Ministry of Interior. But to claim that there is almost a mass eavesdropping in the country, this is an apocalyptic picture that unfortunately does not correspond to reality. And I repeat once again, I say, unfortunately, to those who bring this up. I do not make political statements, I react absolutely professionally and I can say that I am ready to protect both the work of the institution which I am currently managing and the work of my colleagues. But for a cheap PR, not even legal, but political, I find it very difficult not to react, because it hits the good name of my colleagues. So, please, if I have gone too far in time or in my words, to be excused by you, this first, and, secondly, please, if the MPs have this will to really ask questions as to whether amendments to the Special Intelligence Act are necessary. Just two questions so I don't waste your time. One does not need a very different procedure to resolve the cases in which national security is involved? The second, which was raised as a question by Mr. Rashkov and who eventually received the same and complete unanimity in the evaluation at the Commission's time, and what was most interesting was, excuse me for saying that during the Commission meeting, everything that happened in this House was not said about him, perhaps because he was not open and was not in front of the media. So, about that question... [[Reply.]] Please apologize, according to our legislation, indeed, it is the applicant who chooses, rudely speaking, excuse the harsh word, but so it is, who ultimately decides which of the SRS materials serves his these and his interests for using the SRS. The applicant in all 100% is in general, the state authority, the prosecutors' office, the police, the State Agency of National Security. However, there is another problem, the applicant may choose what serves the indictment thesis, but in the end there are also many elements of the SRS that serve exactly the defence thesis. Isn't it time to think that, if a person is subject to the SRS, everything that is documented should be given to the court and not what the relevant authority that requested the SRS would have wanted to keep? If the court has everything, we will end up facing full equality of the weapons, as said in the legal theory of the prosecution and the defense, but these are issues which I think are of your competence. Thank you for your attention. I apologize if I took the time. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u143	Thank you, Mr. Attorney General. The Chairman of the DANS, Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u144	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House! I also had no intention of speaking, but in view of the involvement of the State Agency for National Security, I will take account of the Report and of the questions raised to the guests involved in the meeting. With regard to whether there is a special intelligence means for terrorism implemented, yes. For 2016, Mr. Velkov, we have 10 cases on which special intelligence means of terrorism have been applied. With regard to what Mr. Prosecutor General said, there is no mass eavesdropping of politicians, magistrates, yes, it is, and we do not have any wiretapping of journalists. And this must become clear, and not be presented in a different form with a view to misunderstanding. We have different views with the Bureau regarding the three cases that have been mentioned and these are related to the implementation of the Special Intelligence Means Act. In this regard, we have prepared letters to the President of the Commission for Control of the Services and Special Intelligence Funds, Mr. Dimitar Lazarov, asking for a meeting of the Commission to be held with a view to clearing the most effective and correct implementation of the Law on Special Intelligence, and to avoid these discrepancies. With regard to the work of the Bureau with the State Agency for National Security. We have provided an absolute opportunity for Bureau checks on their functional duties, providing the maximum information they have requested. In addition, the Bureau has sent instructions to the State Agency for National Security and as an authority under art. 13, and as an organ under art. 20. They are all implemented and implemented in the Agency by my orders so that they can be implemented in the best possible way and ensure transparency of the entire procedure for the application of special intelligence means. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u145	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Here you are, Mr. Chairman of the DATO, Mr. Kitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u146	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, colleagues! My speech will be very brief. In the State Agency of Technical Operations the special intelligence funds are implemented only according to the law and strictly within the framework of the law. All the checks that the Bureau has carried out within the Agency have met full cooperation and have followed the instructions they have given. I think that answers absolutely everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u147	Thank you, Mr. Kitov. Any other speeches? Let the MPs speak first. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u148	My fellow Members, I think this debate must make sense. Some of the statements from the chiefs of the services, the chief prosecutor, I was under the impression that they were generally satisfied with the way things are going in the system, which largely does not coincide with my opinion, but probably with the opinion of the majority of Bulgarian citizens. But that's probably because we're not professionals and we're looking at it from a different angle. However, I have a few specific questions that I insist on answering Mr. Rashkov because he did not answer. Yeah, and the Attorney General, and then you said there was no mass eavesdropping on politicians. I think the times of the mass eavesdropping of politicians have passed long ago. Let's hope they never come back! None of us suspected that politicians were being widely dried up. The question is: if there are politicians in this House, I would say key politicians who are... we are talking unregulated wiretapped, of course, are there presidents of parliamentary groups who are unauthorized wiretapped, and from now on these are the questions I can ask to Mr. Rashkov. My next question is: as long as we are obviously in an open session and he cannot answer me with names, which he said to her, then my next question is to Mr. Kirilov, who justified and voted for the open session, for example, Cornelia Nino was bugged? This is to you because you justified the open session. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u149	Colleagues, let's continue with the speeches and then I will give Mr. Rashkov the floor to summarize. Any lines to Mr. Kutev? I can't see. Mr. Simov has a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u150	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct, as I also asked a specific question to Mr. Rashkov, I did not receive an answer from him.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u151	Yes, of course, Mr. Simov, I will give the floor to Mr. Rashkov, but let us continue the MPs with the speeches, because perhaps more questions will be gathered, so that Mr. Rashkov can answer at once. Please come in for a statement. I don't see any other speeches. For an answer, Mr. Rashkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u152	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! First, there was an incomplete answer on my part on Mr. Ermenkov's question. Yeah, the Bureau isn't a statistical authority. Usually and easier to read the first text of the Special Intelligence Act, which very often many people refer to as the Bureau oversees procedures and so on: this is the case in this text. However, there is another text that tells how the monitoring is carried out by the requirement of information, by checking the registers, by checking all premises where documents relating to the use and application of special intelligence means are contained and so on. This activity represents the substance of the checks. So we, after carrying out this check, this verification activity, then we create this report. We strive to include only generalized data. Does he need additional powers? Turns out there is. I suggest you consider this matter. I'm not critical of you, as someone tried to present my participation here today. On the contrary, I am offering you something that tells me the practice of a four-year existence of this Bureau, which is undoubtedly a democratic conquest in our country, and we have lost four years, by the way, from 2009 to 2013. We would have put order in this delicate matter long ago if it hadn't been for the first version of the Office of 2009. We need additional powers, there's no doubt... And right now you've heard opinions about how the Bureau is only watching. Well, then, let's just sit in our offices and watch from the blinds around here.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u153	Mr. Rashkov, please, on the questions that the MPs have asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u154	This is also a question asked by Mr. Ermenkov, whom I have not answered, if there is any need for additional powers. Obviously, it must be made very clear that we need to get acquainted with the materials on which the applicants' requests are based. Because now the Law is not very clear. I also have legal arguments in this direction, but I do not have the opportunity to put them here or in the Commission, and I want to do so. I cannot accept that my speech has been filled with criticism of Parliament and so on. I'll leave that to you without comment. The Attorney General here has indicated that the judge's act is mandatory for everyone. Something I didn't say, I didn't deny that the judge, by giving an act, should be executed. That's what the Law says. I don't know why they're talking about something like this out here. And that doesn't mean that the judge's act can't be looked at, because if we hadn't done that these four years, we wouldn't have found any outrage in the acts. I would like to share with you the following that these four years we have observed outrageous judicial acts, but we have neither amended them nor dictated them, nor have we cancelled them, because such powers the Bureau does not have. And thank God there isn't! We have only satisfied ourselves to provide this information about our opinion to competent state authorities, including the Supreme Judicial Council. The Supreme Judicial Council on these signals has taken no relation or at least, at least, no feedback on this. So we can't audit, we haven't done it. However, we are entitled by law to familiarize ourselves with these acts. If we do not have the opportunity to look at the materials, the primary ones on which the demands of the applicants are based, or the DANS, or the prosecution, or the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, our activities will become formal and we will not be able to even monitor what is being emphasized. We're just watching from the side and looking. The law says: "To acquaint the Bureau with all documents related to their use and implementation. " I would like to draw serious attention here to the fact that this year there are three cases where we have a refusal to meet the materials on which the SANS have drawn up their demands, and one of these cases concerns a very famous person. [[Replication from SG to BSP for Bulgaria: Is it in the hall?]] The guy's not in the gym. But each other's in the gym. [[Noise, lines and applause]] And there is no doubt to me that preventing the Bureau from dealing with it, to get acquainted with only the material on which the request is based is related to this particular person, and that there are no legal arguments for such a ban, and that this particular issue is deliberately postponed in the Specialized Commission for Control of the Services and Special Intelligence Funds here in Parliament. This question has been postponed for a long time, so that it cannot be considered. Something bad, something political, you see in my speech and answer to that question? No. We just want to do our job and nothing more!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u155	To the point, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u156	Mr. Tsatsarov says: "There is no Bureau signal on which there is no answer. " - Well, that's not true! By hundreds of signals we've sent, we haven't received an answer. Understand, I don't blame the Attorney General. We decided to alert the Attorney General so that he could, because under Constitution and by Law he carried out methodological guidance and supervision for the legality of all prosecutors, to know what was done in the prosecution and nothing more than that. We do not want him to answer us personally, but at least to order his prosecutors to answer us properly, not contrary to the Law or not at all. If I had to, I could have done it wasn't for the gym, of course, but a list of signals on which we don't have an answer and we don't know what's going on. After all, I think the Bureau should work very closely with the prosecution. I said it once, and now I'm going to say it again: I think the two institutions should work hand in hand. We, in a sense, have an obligation under Law in relation to the rights and freedoms of citizens in relation to special intelligence means, and the prosecution supervises the legality of the Constitution. Here's your relationship. The legal connection, and I've always expected full cooperation from the prosecution. Not necessarily to comply with our opinions, of course. God forbid such opinions and opinions! And two more words I'll say about the eight thousand authorized operating methods, but not applied. Now, to say this, it's absolutely false! There is a legal subtlety that, where a single method is not applied due to its inability to apply, the implementing authority is obliged to notify the authority which authorises, i.e. the court and the applicant. Such notification letters we have not found in the DATO. This is what this is about, and not that we almost hold all the permitted methods to be applied, because the Law itself provides for hypotheses in which this does not happen. I don't know why it's called here from the stands like that?! There's no double archin! Regarding Mrs. Vladimira Yaneva. She'd authorized about 300 days of special intelligence, you know. We have 480-day cases, 400-day cases, 330-day periods, to say the DANS watches six months, then, although the prosecution knows, and it monitors five, six months, becomes 11 months, and in our deep conviction, in violation of the Law. This is what we have checked, including, note that we have waited for the criminal proceedings to be completed against the observed person and found it in the judicial act which has entered into force. Regarding the violations, they were sent by the former chairman of the Sofia City Court Mr. Topalov to the Prosecutor General. And why has it not been noted that we, long before Mr. Topalov, have sent about 200 cases of deterioration of the same rules that actually contain some of them, and in the report of this former President of the Sofia City Court, and we on these violations have no information as to what is going on? After all, we're a government body, aren't we? We cannot appeal to the above standing instance, I apologize very much! We're not interested. We're a government body. How do we appeal? We are not a wrong legal person to use PPC expressions and so on. Let's save this stuff.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u157	There were specific questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u158	"There are no remarks" says Mr. Kitov the Bureau to our work. "Well, there are remarks, and quite serious ones. I thought that he had to explain these eight thousand ways that were allowed by the court, but they didn't put them into practice so that we wouldn't argue with the Attorney General, for example. Let's not speculate on the word "massive." We know that we have this year, accounting 2016, about 2,400, 2,700 people or a little more who have been observed. What does that mean? All of them? No. No one can say that. I therefore stress that many citizens are being watched. After all, our society is, yes, it is important, I said it elsewhere, that when a politician is observed, his organization is also observed and so on. There are. I said it. I'm going to give an example, I don't know, not to repeat myself, it wasn't when we were checking one of these cases for a former acting politician at that time, I can't say exactly, but anyway, our colleagues asked the operative in the relevant Ministry of Interior structure: well, you have no output data, why are you writing a request and getting permission for its observation? Do you know how the answer is given? Just like that! [[He makes a mime gesture with his head lifted up to suggest that the instruction comes from superiors above. Rejoice in the hall.]] This man, although he was here in the Chamber, is currently suing Bulgaria, is suing our country under the State's liability law. We have cases of informed citizens who are taking cases against the state under the State Responsibility Act, but there is no response from the prosecution. Not that there should always be a reaction of the prosecution, I know this matter. There are politicians under special surveillance, there are some cases that you know. Should I start there? [[Noise and shout in GERB.]] They're famous. Once upon a time, we did an inquiry committee for inspection, back in the same office. Then it was called the National Security Service. We've established a special intelligence minister. It is true that this is quite a long time ago, in the mandate 2001 - 2005.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u159	Let us talk about 2016 because we are currently looking at the 2016 report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u160	I'm on my way. I'm on my way to 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u161	Let's concentrate in 2016 the 2001-2005 period is very distant.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u162	There are cases in which we have not done much of the checks, but they have already entered into sentences with a decision of the Supreme Court, where the expression is a..... violation of the Law............................ and so on. And there are special intelligence tools used. I'm just embarrassed to tell you who wanted the special reconnaissance tool, who authorized it, and what the acquittal is for the three defendants. In the end, it was requested in another judicial area, which, in violation of the rules of conviction, etcetera, etcetera. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u163	Thanks, me too. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I'll read the draft decision again. Project! DECISION: adopting a report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activity carried out in 2016. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts a report by the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activities carried out in 2016 Please, voting mode. Vote 186 MPs: 182 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Come in for a negative vote, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u164	Madam President, honourable Members, honored guests, if you have not yet left! I voted negatively, demonstrably against, because a report that contains objective data, objective statistics, probably also information that should be at our attention, was used in a rude political way to manipulate public opinion in order to create a suggestion that there are, see, such problems. In the debate, we have also given one of the members of a collective body the opportunity to express personal opinions. No one in the debate asked for which of these findings, for which of these suggestions we have a solution of this collective body, with full or partially incomplete composition. I think this is not in favor of objective truth, as it is not in favour of the development and enforcement of these methods. Therefore, for me, this case was a brilliant example of political abuse in terms of Parliament's control function, the legislative authority. Personally, I did not have so many impressions about some of the members of this body. Now I do. Life and health, to live through the next selection procedure of members of such a body. And I know what I'm gonna ask! Thank you. [[Loud noise in BSP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u165	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mrs. Ninova's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u166	Madam President, colleagues, distinguished guests! They're out. What we have just heard from the stands of the Bulgarian Parliament is absurd! A ruling majority MP has just threatened the elected legitimate president of the National Bureau for Control of the SRS [[GERB loud noise]] that the moment of the selection procedure will come and then we'll see what happens! [[Strong noise in GERB.]] Do you understand what you're doing?! Another drop in the sea of gross violation of the rule of law, gross violation of democratic principles! This man here is in his capacity as Director of the National Bureau, which we have chosen, and because he has said the opinion of this Bureau, you are threatening him with political dismissal! [[Loud noise and shouting in GERB.]] Do you guys hear what you're doing?! Mrs. Karayancheva, I expected you to drive him out of the stands. After my eviction, why didn't you kick him out too?! [[Strong noise and shouts in GERB: "Eee."]] This man was elected by the Bulgarian National Assembly. He is here legitimately and legally expressing the opinion of a national authority. And your threats to his dismissal are political pressure for telling the truth! It is an abuse of people's freedom, of freedom to express their opinion, of professional freedom, with whatever freedom you want! [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.......................................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u167	Mrs. Ninova, Mr. Kirilov expressed a personal vote based on what he heard and made his conclusions. He speaks from a personal position of the MP. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u168	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Madam President, with great respect to you, I must tell you that you have made one mistake. You should have reminded Mr. Rashkov to answer two basic questions, not to account for his activities as a Bureau, two basic questions that he did not answer. The first question is: is there an unauthorised wiretapping of politicians? He didn't answer that question. Secondly, Mr. Simov asked a question which I personally find extremely interesting. And Mr. Rashkov didn't answer that question. I think that as President, you should have reminded him that these were the two main issues, not to listen to a report on the Bureau's activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u169	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. If you get acquainted with the transcript, you will see that I repeatedly asked Mr. Rashkov to answer specific questions, but we never received an answer. You're right. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE CRITICAL CODEX. Importers are Boris Yachev and a group of MPs. No reports. Mr. Yachev, you're welcome to present your motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u170	Madam President, honourable Members! The draft proposed to your attention aims to regulate public relations which are related to the ban on the preaching of radical Islam, as well as any other ideology that uses faith beliefs for political purposes, including promoting changes to existing constitutional and legal order in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as by applying a legal definition of the concept within criminal law and by indicating specific sanctions corresponding to violations directly arising from that prohibition. The issue of the introduction of these changes to the criminal system is based on the extremely up-to-date and provoked a wide public debate international problem with the increased level of terrorist threat, such as the direct manifestation of this radical ideology, both in relation to the unstoppable refugee crisis and other problematic manifestations within individual ethnic groups and minority marginalized and encapsulated parts of civil societies. The need to formulate this problem at the legislative level stems from the lack of its adequate arrangements in the current Penal Code. It has been criminalized to preach non-democratic ideology, and the only one is, quote, "Fashism, which has virtually no modern manifestations." In this regard, the explicit reference to radical Islam................................................................................................ 108 is extremely important in view of the threat it poses to the contemporary Bulgarian society. There have been two types of Islam - traditional Islam, which has been inherent to Muslims in Bulgaria for centuries, and the new type of radical Islam, which is a modern phenomenon of no more than three decades. One is religion, the other is a radical ideology based on Islam, an ideology that claims to be religion, and at the same time is a political doctrine that is closer to the anti-democratic ideologies of the 20th century than to traditional Islam. Security experts and analysts have already formulated a new term, which seeks to show that this ideology does not have as much to do with Islam as with totalitarian ideologies. In many ways, radical Islam contradicts Islamic religion, as described in the Koran and other classical sources. The main thing to distinguish religions from ideologies is the goals it sets itself and the means it aims to achieve them. While in religion everything is aimed at spiritual improvement in the material world, and the material world is left on the second floor, the ideology accent is reversed. There it is necessary that on the basis of chosen religious postulates, the world should be changed politically. Radical Islam is a particularly aggressive and dangerous ideology that justifies the violence and murder of infidels, justifies slavery, and genocide, religious cleansing is raised to the rank of systemic policy in the areas controlled by its followers. A direct result of its spread is the boom of international terrorism, which continues to cause an increasing number of victims, and in just the last three years, the number of victims of terrorist attacks has tripled. A report by the International Institute for Economics and Peace states that 66% of the world's terrorist activity, such as terrorist attacks and victims, is due to four terrorist organisations,............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ They all function on ideological motivations based on radical Islam. In addition, more than 100 terrorist organisations based on radical Islam operate in the world. A number of them are on the European Union's lists for freezing funds and enhanced measures in the area of judicial and police cooperation. As a result of the spread of this ideology is the extermination and banishment of more than 2 million Christians in the Middle East, of 600,000 Yazides, and not a small part of women and children were kidnapped into slavery, and of millions of Muslims who disagreed with radicalism, as well as Aleviites and others. In the Acting Penal Code, art. 108 is criminalized the preaching of non-democratic ideology, but we believe that the explicit mention of radical Islam in art. 108 is extremely important in view of the threat it poses to our society. Moreover, such a record will make clear the distinction between religion as it wants to be presented and ideology and will have a deterrent effect on the potential contingent of its propaganda. Without claiming to be comprehensive, we believe that ideology "radical Islam" is preached by one person when: it campaigned for the creation of an Islamic state of Caliphate; it campaigned for the imposition of Sharia laws over secular ones; it campaigned for the violent imposition of religious principles and norms characteristic of Islam; it promoted violence in the form of a sacred war; it promoted violence against non-Muslims; it was campaigning for the benefit of terrorist organisations whose ideology is based on Islam; and/or recruiting followers, or funds to support terrorist organisations whose ideology is based on Islam. We propose that the legal definition in this spirit be attached to art. 93 of the Penal Code by creating a new paragraph 31. Paragraph 3 of this Draft Law is justified by the need to criminalise the actions of persons who, by means of violence or coercion exercised against another person or persons, as well as by solicitation or misuse of power or public status, require the wearing of garments or covers covering up entirely or covering up the person. Criminalisation is necessary due to the fact that such acts are aimed at affecting the personal sphere of the human being and its dignity, which are one of the most basic and highest values protected by Community, international and national law. In order to synchronise our national legislation with the measures envisaged for the protection and protection of these human rights, it is necessary at the same time to introduce rules both in the civil sphere of our positive law and to provide for sanctions in the penal sphere to be proportionate both to the nature of the law concerned and to the extent and extent of its impact and to the vulnerability of the objects concerned. The victims of the acts referred to in the Bill are mostly female, no matter what age. With regard to age, the bill provides for differentiation of punishment where the affected entity or the subject of the act is minor or minor female. It is precisely in the light of this cumulation of risk factors which, in democratic law, benefit from encouraging and/or countervailing measures that we believe, should be punished more rigorously than in acts carried out on female adults. The imposition of such models prejudices not only the personal dignity, free will and the right to the opinion of women's individuals, but also presupposes a violation of the public morality and order established in our country, corresponding to the secular model of our state structure. In the context of an ever increasing invasion of foreign influences in Europe and in our country, it has proven in a clear way its hostility, aggression, total lack of tolerance and creativity, as well as intransigence to the host, traditions and values found in the country, given the national legislation established for tens of years with regard to civil registration and personal documents, such behaviour should be considered as a threat to the effective protection of our national security. That is why preventive measures should be taken in the strictest sense. With this bill, we believe that, together with the introduction into our positive right of the Law on the wearing of clothing, hiding or covering the person, criminalizes the acts which violate the order of our state structure established in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria as a guarantee for our national security, for the promotion and development of democratic processes in our country, as well as for the secular form of the public device. I would like to recall, honourable Members, that this bill has also been tabled in the mandate of the previous National Assembly. It passed at first reading, but due to the early termination of the mandate of the Forty-third Parliament, the bill could not be tabled in plenary and seen at second reading. Madam President, if there is time, I would also like to introduce you to a positive opinion from the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u171	Maybe take it as a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u172	It could extend the time of its group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u173	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u174	We have an opinion from the Ministry of Justice in support of the proposed bill. I'll read a very small part of it. The Ministry of Justice expressed the following opinion on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 26 May 2017. The Law proposes amendment and supplement of the Penal Code, as in § 1, Article 1. 93 is created a new item. 31 which lays down a definition of the ideology of Radical Islam and in § 2 of art. 108 is created a new para. 2, incriminating the preaching of radical Islam or another ideology that uses religious beliefs for political purposes, including promoting an amendment of the existing constitutional and legal order, which provides for a punishment for deprivation of liberty from one to five years and a fine of up to five thousand levs. § 3 of the Bill proposes the creation of a new art. 162a criminalising the actions of persons who, through the use of threat, violence, coercion or authority, or through promises of material benefit, require the wearing of clothing covering in part or hiding entirely the person. The Ministry of Justice supports the bill in principle. The creation of a concept in the Criminal Code of Ideology can be considered necessary, as countering radicalisation and terrorism is a state-wide and comprehensive activity. Radical Islam is a phenomenon which, with its manifestations, threatens social unity in society and the national security of the country. By incriminating the preaching of the ideology "radical Islam" in art. 108 of the Penal Code will help to counter the spread of its views as hostile to national and European values. The proposal under § 3 of the Draft Law for the creation of art. 162a of the Penal Code also finds its basis, as it proposes to punish acts which, through the use of threat, violence or coercion, restrict rights or impose obligations, regardless of the will of their importer, as well as promises of giving or giving material benefit to the realization of radicalisation. The Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria guarantees freedom of religion, according to art. 13, para. 1 religions are free, and according to art. 4 religious communities, institutions, and faith beliefs cannot be used for political purposes. The wear of garments covering the whole or covering part of the person should comply with the requirements set out in the Law on the Restriction of Clothes Clothes or Hidden Persons. Actions which pose a threat, violence or coercion to another person through its inclination to wear clothing hiding in whole or in part the person are a gross violation of the equality and human dignity of women's individuals and should be criminalised. In this regard, if the draft is supported by the Members of the National Assembly, then the definition of Radical Islam proposed by the importers should be refined by taking the opinion of specialists on religious matters and the proposed draft texts in § 2 and § 3 of the Draft Law should undergo legal and technical editing in accordance with the requirements for the construction and formulation of provisions. This is the opinion of the Ministry of Justice. Dear colleagues, I conclude with an appeal to support the Bill at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u175	Thank you, dear Mr. Yachev. I'm opening the debate. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u176	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are looking at this Bill without it passing through the Commission, through the various committees, or through the Law. [[Heckling]] And al. Eight, as they kindly call me from the hall. At the same time, if you let me speak, you will understand that this is not so problematic in this case, as this is a Bill from the past National Assembly, which has been watched and discussed here in detail. Indeed, the subject that is being raised about the preaching of radical Islam, in the context that surrounds us both here and in Europe, is extremely sensitive, even more sensitive, is in a law such as the Penal Code, which we often change and with which we often try to solve severe public problems, which only through repression are not solved. We just need to be clear about this. We are offered amendments to three provisions of the Penal Code and there are three opinions received. Mr. Yachev quotes the opinion of the Ministry of Justice. In the same style and direction is the opinion of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, which supports the bill and says that it needs to be refined is also on the website of the National Assembly. There is also an opinion from the Bulgarian Helsinki Committee, which is negative to the bill. [[Shouting from OP.]] All these opinions must be taken into account in the discussion. What's he offering us? Three things: in art. 93 to specify the notion of Radical Islam and the consequences of its propaganda. This is somehow the heart of the Bill, and it is in the opinions that support the Bill that this particular definition should be refined. A wider debate is needed, along with people who understand this matter, because the consequences are criminal, that is, very severe. He needs to be refined. We are also offered an addition to a text that we often talk about in this House, not to mention the text about hate language. We are offered to strengthen it with a new provision, with a new paragraph, which sounds like whoever preaches radical Islam or another ideology will be punished from one to five years in prison. Okay. However, the current text on hate speech allows anyone who promotes anti-democratic ideology, which is undoubtedly the one described in this bill, to be punished for one to three years. Fine! It is worth considering whether we should not make a specific provision and higher penalties if we see such a public danger, but it is also worth reminding the general principle that hate language is a prosecution in Bulgaria, and to bear it in mind every time we take the floor. We are also offered to change art. 162 in the context of the so-called integrated women's coverage. In the text proposed to us, it is about their violent dress, that is, women who do not want to dress like that and who are forced to dress like that. Without a doubt, this must be punished. Fine! Only in the current article. 162, para. 2: The person who used violence against another or damaged his property because of his race, nationality and ethnicity is subject to punishment. I mean, there's a text like that. I say all this because it is worth it, and I congratulate you that this topic is being discussed.. it exists, and in many cities it is very hurtful, but it is worth discussing seriously and is worth discussing widely. To make a discussion about the social phenomena behind all these manifestations, about the violence some of our compatriots are still experiencing, because of the religion they preach in one direction or the other. This is a debate that is not about para. Eight, with an apology. And this is one of the reasons why I will refrain from supporting this Bill, all the more so that all those who support it say that it needs to be refined. In the Penal Code, something to need to be refined is not like another law to need to be refined, because it is about the freedom of Bulgarian citizens. Finally, in the context of the Criminal Code and in the context of what we are going to discuss, the assessment of the impact of such a bill, although it is not legally established, should also include several lines which show that importers know the practice of the European Court of Human Rights on the matter, for the simple reason that otherwise the bills themselves are voted on, but start cases that end not in favour of the State, not in favour of the importer and not in favour of the idea that he wanted initially to pass. Last week was 25 years since Bulgaria's ratification of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. On this occasion, there was a conference at which it was announced that last year the state paid us approximately two million leva benefits in these cases. All of this should be borne in mind when we reason on such bills. In respect of art. 162 The veil, or burka, or as the specialists call it, I am not a specialist in neighbouring countries and debates have been held in Western Europe for years. We have adopted a law that already imposes administrative penalties, we are now applying another. Maybe that's justified, but it's not justified to do it lightly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u177	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Is there anyone who would like to say a line to the speech? I can't see. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I take occasion from what I have heard from my colleague in the proposal and from what my colleague Zarkov said about the need to refine everything we are going to accept, all the more so that what you, you colleague, have read as an opinion of the Ministry of Justice, is written precisely and clearly that there is a need to refine and consult experts. If you'll excuse me, I'm going to talk to you a little bit more about this. I think that would be helpful. Let me tell colleagues who propose the Law that I support such an initiative, that I come from my positions as a Bulgarian patriot, but I do not want to lighten our eyes in the eyes of those who have chosen us and especially of our European partners with similar claims. I just want to read you something in what you're offering. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 93 is created a new item. 31 with the following text: ..31. Radical Islam is an ideology that promotes any of the following ideas: the creation of the Islamic State (Kalifat); an advantage of the laws of Sharia before secularism; a forceful imposition of religious principles and norms of conduct characteristic of Islam;...... violence in the form of sacred war (jihad) or an imposition based on interpretations of Islam, values contrary to universal human freedom, peace, humanism, equality, justice and tolerance............................................. I want to tell you that at least five of these definitions are deeply incorrect and I will explain why. I think that with joint efforts we will do it again as necessary, and we will accept it, but it should not look light. Let me tell you that from exactly the conditions you spoke about, the Bulgarian Prime Minister came back a few days ago, but this is only one note. Colleagues, we need to be extremely careful when we talk about terrorism and religions, and we need to be careful not to automatically refer to terrorism, this ugly notion, to religions at all, and especially to large religions. No cause, no idea, no religion to justify killing innocent people, and I fully share that. But I want to tell you this. First, Islam as one of the great religions is not ideology, as is Christianity, and so is Judaism. Second, opposition between religions can go on a fateful collision with unpredictable consequences for mankind. Thirdly, the very concept of radical Islam is deeply false, honourable Members. There's no such thing as that. He was introduced by politicians, including here, in this Chamber, several parliaments were throwing balls like this: you are a radical Islamist, you are a radical Islamist and so on. Please, fellow Members, let us distinguish between Islam, Islam and Islamist, because within the meaning of what we are talking about, if we have not refined it, we can be deeply mistaken. The right concept is ultra conservative religious ideologies, carriers... [[Noise and lines in "United Patriarchs."]] Are you a little complicated? Again, I will repeat this:..ultraconservative religious ideologies, which carry several organizations. The colleague rightly pointed out four of them, and I will add another one in Somalia. Otherwise, Islamist organizations, starting from the oldest Muslim brothers, she is almost a hundred years old, are over 100 in the world, but these are particularly dangerous. Therefore, the right concept, in my opinion, is political Islam. That is, those Islamist, ultra conservative ideologies that are aimed at acquiring power and practicing power, and denying any secular forms of power. This is not just about Islam, because you, a colleague, are talking here about hitting, terrorism against non-Muslims. To ask you, of course, the provocative question: what was that freak, I apologize for saying, Andres Braevik, who five years ago broke into Oslo's center, then went and killed 70 teenagers at their summer camp, declared himself an orthodox Christian, and didn't kill any Muslims? Right! When we talk, it's... [[Noise and lines in GERB and "United Patriarchs."]] Colleagues, I share everything you say. Please, especially the Patriots! I'm a patriot myself. One of my grandfathers did a similar work. You know who. I'd like to tell you this. If we're talking about these forms, we have to take them in the right sound, because we can make a mistake. It's the truth! There is no country in the world in which the ideal of the fundamental state is built. Some say That's not true! It has secular forms of power.. there is a parliament, there is a secular president. Even Saudi Arabia. There is only one where religion is dominant and where God's deputy personally directs the state. The ministers are cardinals, the ambassadors are nuances, and the embassies are nunciats. Please, let's not talk about the laws of Sheria! There are no such laws, colleagues! Where are the laws of Sheria? What is a Sherriatus? You know, do you have an idea? Mr. Vangelov, I see you're opening your mouth. In translation from Arabic, Shariat "Shari" means the way to the truth, to the water, to the spring. Do you understand? We're used to using the notions here, as it seems interesting to us. Take, for example, the state.. I will not mention the name where we had a high visit a week ago. There are laws of an ultra conservative religion and its Sunni current, which is called salafism. It lays down the legislation. What sherrys can we talk about?! So let's be exact. I am ready to consult on these issues, together to do so, all the more so that the Ministry of Justice has given you this recommendation, and I hope that the Attorney General will also have a clarification of the texts. Otherwise, we could be profoundly wrong. And the concept of jihad. What does jihad mean, coworkers? Are you really only talking about holy war? Have you read the book called the Holy Qur'an, Chapter Seven, which is called the Holy War, the Sura II battery, Ayathi to change 190 191st? I'm not prepared, but I'll quote them. One of them says: And fight them in the way of Allah, just as they fought you. And 191: And banish them from the places where they banished us. That is, everything is done there so that violence can exist, but only in response to violence already manifested. Let us not take major religions to terrorism. We'll make a mistake. Let us deal with concepts that are scientifically justified and which are protected. I am ready in this regard to help and welcome your idea. I think it'll be a good law, but we have to be precise to the end. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u179	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Are there any lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u180	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Velkov, just so you don't say that you will not support our bill, you have made a verbal turlu gourd here, from the stands of the National Assembly. You've put together all sorts of examples, theories that you've ever been introduced into, in other times in terms of the Middle East, Islam and radical Islam in general. I think that when you declare that you are a patriot and that you maintain that such a law, whatever legislation is adopted throughout Europe, should not in any way delay and waste time and try now to pass the time of plenary, in order to postpone once again the examination of this bill, as it has been ready for quite a long time and waiting to be adopted. I believe that now is the time to confirm your patriotism, you and your parliamentary group, without wasting time adopting the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u181	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. Come in for a second line, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u182	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I am very embarrassed that there are speakers of the Bulgarian Helsinki Committee who have proved its harmfulness to Bulgaria, and there is one speech that is contrary to everything written in the Bill and the idea of the Bill in order to torpedo this idea not to be voted at first reading, that is to say that something which we pretend to call for is not to be improved: That's why there are two readings of the bills. I very much hope that the BSP has not become speakers of the DPS who usually jump in this way and on this subject, but take a responsible position because everything that was spoken by Mr. Valkov is about religion and that is why we want to make a clear distinction between religion and ideology. So whether it will be radical Islam or radical Islamism we do not want to identify with religion, but all the time you are talking about religion. It is not about religion, it is about that ideology which has bloody Europe, which has no front line, but it is about turning our societies into a field of war, eroticizing them and actually destroying everything that European civilization has cared for over time. In this regard, I ask you and your colleagues to reconsider the way in which you will vote, because obviously the demand for a formal basis not to support this law is not an expression of patriotism, much less an expression of responsibility to national security, which we can say that the main threat arises from radicalisation and from the penetration of such ideologies into otherwise peaceful and traditional Bulgarian Islamic communities.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u183	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Is there a third line? I don't see a request. Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u184	Thank you. Colleagues, don't convince me of what I'm convinced of! I told you, if we, together with you, refine the letter, the text, the point, the concepts, I will support the Law. I'll back him up on the offer. [[(Noise and lines. A line from the National Representative Slavcho Atanasov: On the first and second...]] And third, if you want, Mr. Atanasov! [[Loud noise.]] Because you're calling unwarranted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u185	Please, guys!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u186	I'll support him! But let's be precise, colleagues. Here is what our fellow Member said: we make a clear distinction between religion and ideology. At the same time, in art. 93 writes so: "Radical Islam is an ideology that promotes... " [[Noise and lines.]] Well, it's not ideology! Now I don't want to talk to you about the currents in Islam and the most conservative of them, but we have to be precise. The former colleague used the expression "Aleveti". That's it, let's not insult my colleague. There's no such thing, colleagues. Some, if we write it like this, if he hears us, they'll laugh at us. The Alleuites are a current in Shiite Islam, long ago. Ten percent of Muslims in Syria are alleuites. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go. The Russian name of the Aleuite is a colleague. That's what they call it in Turkey, too. If you want to speak Russian or Turkish, come on in, but I know you can't! So I want to tell you on this occasion a saying like that, and that concludes the backdrop. I'll translate it for you. We want to drink water from the spring. I'll tell you, this is an old Turkish love folk song, it says so: "Shu Cushme, Güzel Ceshma, Suy, Chek Tasa Yok. Let's have a cup and I'll support you without a doubt! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u187	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. That was the douche. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Ahmedov. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u188	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms would support any Amendment Bill that is linked as long as there are any relationships in society. With such proposals, the Penal Code we do not see any new relationships requiring a change in the Law. We hereby state our position on the proposed bill, and we believe that the definition of radical Islam in the Penal Code will be strongly expressed, discriminatory and xenophobic manifestation by the Bulgarian legislature. That is why we are completely opposed to attempts, no matter what context, for Islam to be qualified as criminal. The acts described in the Bill are also at present qualified as crimes, that is, there is really no draft of a text that criminalises any act which has not been considered to be socially dangerous and has not been expressed in the current provisions of the Penal Code. The order of Art. 108 of the Criminal Code on Anti-Democratic Ideology is quite sufficient in this regard. Everything else is an expression of the Bill's importers' desire to declare a religion dangerous. DPS is against any kind of radicalism. Honourable Members, you would like to distinguish between religion and ideology, but we do not see it in such proposals. The introduction of a concept of radical Islam and its calling as a crime is like the introduction of a concept of Muslim terrorism. By the same logic, there could also be a qualification for murder as murder by a Muslim. At the same time, in the case of the murder of a Muslim to be a privileged staff of crime, theft by a Muslim to qualify her as a member of a crime, and theft by a Muslim as privileged. With the present, we also state that when adopting such a text, we from the DPS will refer to all competent, national and international human rights protection organisations. Once again, I would like to remind you, fellow Members, that the DPS is against all kinds of radicalism! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u189	Thank you, Mr. Ahmedov. [[Applause from DPS.]] Are there any lines? I can't see. There were those who wanted to make speeches. Professor Stanilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u190	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm not going into theoretical or anything. What Mr. Velkov speaks, with certain knowledge of theory, I can, Mr. Velkov, answer you with quotes from Samuel Huntington's book on all the points you spoke here. Because this book, which came out in the '90s and everyone was swearing very hard, I was the only one in the American magazine who wrote a positive review, and now it's on the agenda, and it's the real book that talks about these things. We do not indulge in cursing Islam, we do not delude ourselves into dealing with theory, to distinguish pronunciation from the pronunciations of aaleutitis. We focus on acts of terrorism in the countries of the European Union, and not just there, and we want to get ahead of time. What is happening on the streets of Berlin, London, Madrid, Paris and other cities of Western Europe, even in the United States, we want to predict and stop it. This has nothing to do with the Turkish diaspora in Bulgaria and its political elite, which is here with which I have had large discussions on theories with different, let me say, sharper expressions and so on, but what we do is irrelevant to you, colleagues, because you have no such manifestations. Ever since democracy, you know, the DPS hasn't been on this line at all. We just want to make an emphasis on this terrorism, which really has such a characteristic that really digs into the theory in order to bring violence to the fore and declare it moral violence that violence cannot have. So if you really are both liberals and Democrats and so on, and right and left here everywhere, vote it out. As far as precision is concerned, this is a very difficult job, but it will be done at any cost. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u191	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. A line? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Professor Stanilov, thank you for finally distinguishing DPS from what you say. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Stanilov.]] I really thank you for this and respectfully treat the words, so don't replicate me from the point of view. You'll have your chance in a minute. However, I would like to ask you, you are saying that with this thing you are trying to prevent what is happening on the streets of London, Berlin and so on. Don't you think that with the introduction of this and only with this debate you will not prevent, but cause such processes, which, fortunately, are far from Bulgaria, but to pay attention to Bulgaria as well?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u193	Thank you. That was a first line. [[Reply from the National Representative Pavel Shopov: "Procedure. "]] Go ahead, Mr. Shopov. [[Noise and lines.]] Excuse me! Mr. Shopov, there's a request for a second line. Let's finish her speech right after. Here you go. [[Loud noise and lines.]] This is for the speech of Mr. Ibryamov. [[Heckling]] All right, let's wait for the order. You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Stanilov, I want to thank you for what you said, for the truths you have confessed. Let me just make a point. Not once in your speech, while you were talking about terrorism and all these negative phenomena, you didn't mention the right thing to do, which is the right thing to do. Then why did you put this man in the Law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u195	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Procedure. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Sorry, we're not done here. Mr. Shopov, Mr. Shopov! [[Loud noise and lines.]] Does he have a back? I won't. Okay, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u196	My procedure is to extend working hours to the vote on this Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u197	We are voting on a procedural proposal for... [[Noise. A line from the MP Hamid Hamid.]] Here you go, Mr. Hamid. I'm listening to you about a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u198	Dear Mr. Chairman! There are very important committees ahead. You, as a member of the Legal Committee, know that we have a hearing of the Attorney General in the Legal Commission, then there is an Anti-Corruption Act at second reading. This is gonna take some time. We promised society by the end of the year to adopt the Anti-Corruption Act, so let us not prolong the time, all the more so that once again this is voted out, so there is no point in extending the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u199	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. We are voting on a procedural proposal to extend the time until adoption of the bill under consideration. They voted 125 MPs: 65, against 30, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. Re-vote. Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Ibryamov wants the floor for a re-voting proposal. Please justify the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u200	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! My re-voting procedure is because, at the beginning of the plenary session today, there was a procedure for extending working hours. Colleagues voted against it, so it is unacceptable to extend the working hours of the National Assembly. Therefore, my procedure is to re-vote and please, fellow Members, to vote for non-extension of working hours.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u201	I would like to re-vote the proposal to extend the working time until the end of the discussion and vote on the draft in question. They voted 139 MPs: for 83, against 38, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. We're continuing work on the Bill. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Stanilov... [[Reply from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov: After you didn't give me the coat, you pulled out the white envelope here and I kept my mouth shut...]] Mr. Stanilov... [[(Loud noise. A line from the MP Stanislav Stanilov: Where is my hole?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] Mr. Stanilov, I specifically addressed you with a question about the backrest. I'm sorry if I didn't understand. [[Replication by National Representative Stanislav Stanilov. Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Stanilov, I pay attention to keeping order. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Stanilov, keep order in the hall and keep your nerves. Dear Members of Parliament, we are continuing to discuss the bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Oh, there is. Excuse me, Mr. Ibryamov. I started looking from where they yelled at me. I'm sorry. Excuse me, give me clear signals. You have the floor. [[Reply from MP Jayhan Ibryamov.]] Indeed, you had announced ahead of time. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will not scold you. It is clear who in the National Assembly is making such a speech and is fighting. Dear colleagues, a Law has been tabled, which is absurd, and whatever arguments are put forward by the importers, you see that this is directed against radical ideology, absolutely not in line with what we see before us. This is the weakness of the importers, because in their words, when there is a public problem in the motives, the Penal Code is always resorted to! Because in institutions, the discussion that needs to be discussed is not a fact. Then there will be many circumstances that will disprove the bill itself. Colleagues who took part in the Law rightly mentioned in § 1, which proposes art. 93, and it is said that radical Islam is an ideology. On top of that, the motives say that there are two kinds of Islam. Dear colleagues, there is Islam, and there are no two kinds of Islam! When you say that this is directed, you see, to protect Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian-Muhammedans, to correct you, Bulgaria has Muslims, there are also Christians. I have never heard of Bulgarian Christians and Bulgarian Mohammedans. Totally false ignorance of terminology! Therefore, when you prepare such a kind of bill, as you quote, you will consult experts, but at least consult the real experts and not the impostors. In your reasoning, you quote that 66% of a report has been proven and said that certain organisations have recognised the terrorist attacks that have been carried out. Colleagues, where's the rest of the percentage? We will believe you when you talk about radical currents or radical ideology, radicalism or radical currents. Then we would support any kind of bill being tabled to criminalise any kind of radical ideology or religious flow. And as you suggest and who preaches radical Islam, you are currently setting up an entire group of the Bulgarian community who profess Islam. You're doing it, you're doing it! It's a violation of dignity. I am a Bulgarian Muslim, I confess Islam! On top of that, you're telling me that, you see, you can insult my dignity. I ask another question: when you talk about covering the face in part or in whole, last week it was here in Parliament that there was a group of MPs who covered their face. What's this about? [[Noise and lines.]] I ask the question: what is it about, because the chair of a parliamentary group came out with a covered face from this stand? Why didn't you react then, colleagues? Why don't we see a reaction on your part and sue him? Because your law is selective and directed to a certain group and maybe to raise your lost ratings.. I don't know, you already know that. [[(Reply from GERB: Our reform is good.]] We saw that during a visit of the Bulgarian Prime Minister the translator was wearing a headscarf. Yeah, it's in a foreign country. Imagine that there is an invitation to these hosts and arrive in Bulgaria, and their translator has a covered face, what do we do then?! A scarf with an apology. What do we do with football team leaders, including their followers with their faces closed? What about during the Lukov march, colleagues? Note that more than ten events of Lukov march have taken place so far, and two thirds of the boys who participate there have covered their faces. There were other marches in Sofia, but we didn't see a reaction. Why? Because the law is selective, once again I stress it! Here I will turn to the MPs at the right-hand side of the political party GERB, and to the left-hand side of the colleagues from the BSP, to reject in this kind the bill, to specify, as is the requirement of the institutions that have given a positive opinion, and then to submit to the committees in the National Assembly. Absurd, absurd text that creates opposition in Bulgarian society! Thank you for your attention, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u203	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Any lines to the statement? There are no requests for lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! We will not support the submitted Bill because it does not help in any way to develop or upgrade or add something to the criminal law theory. On the contrary, it has been said that this bill is redundant. For all that is written in the Bill, colleagues, the current Penal Code currently contains compositions of crimes, and they are formulated precisely for the purposes of criminal law terminology, and for the purposes of the Penal Code. Absolutely unnecessary texts that aim only to insert a journalistic term into the Penal Code. Please extend the group time if I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u205	Extend group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u206	I'll give you a small example, colleagues. There has been a trial against a group of imams from Pazardzhishko in Bulgaria for several years. All this time the journalistic term that this is a case against radical Islam in Bulgaria. What do you mean? For the first time now you are importing radical Islam, and there is a case going on against radical Islam. Here is your proof that the texts you are importing are absolutely unnecessary. You see what the uncertainty of terminology itself leads to, and the term "radical Islam" itself is antonym. This is two conflicting concepts, that is, there is no way for you to put them into word combinations. For all these texts, the Penal Code has precise ones, in line with the current situation and the situation in Europe, so there is no point in this Bill. Your bill is redundant! Colleagues, you are deprecating all the efforts of the prime minister of the state who is trying to do miracles to normalize our relations with all the countries of the Balkans and the Gulf, to bring investment, and you are provoking and deprecating his work. This is the result of this Bill, so, fellow Members, I call on everyone to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u207	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Are there any lines to the statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? There are no MPs willing to make speeches. I'm closing the debate. Go ahead, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You have a text in our Rules that allows us to request a name check before each vote. A roll call check on behalf of the DPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u209	There's no way. A counteroffer? [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u210	Dear Mr. Chairman! There is a explicit text in our rules that prohibits an hour before the end of working hours from asking for a name check. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-06.u211	We are in a particular situation and we will have to solve the case indefinitely because we have decided that we will work until the Bill is resolved. Please, Mr. Christov, help me. We're moving on to a roll call. Adlen Shukri Shevked - absent Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - absent Alexander Dimitrov Panov - absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Koychev Ivanov - here Alexander Mairov Siddy - here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - absent Alexander Tihomirov Simov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Angel Iliev Isaev - here Andon Dimov Donchev - here Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - absent Asya Atanasova Peeva - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Bogdan Emilov Botsev - here Boris Vangelov Borisov - here Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - absent Bjurhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - absent Valentin Georgiev Lambev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - absent Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Vasil Tsvetkov - absent Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - absent Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova - here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - here Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva - here Violeta Ruseva Zheleva - here Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - absent Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Stoyanova Vassileva - absent Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov - here Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - here Georgi Kolev Kolev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniel Petkov Yordanov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - absent Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - here Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Jekova Taneva - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Gamishev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - absent Donka Dimova Simeonova - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dora Stoyanova Hristova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Evgeni Genchev Budinov - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - absent Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Errol Osman Mehmed - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivaylo Lubenov Konstantinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Dimov Ivanov - here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - here Ivan Kirov Genov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - absent Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - absent Ivo Angelov Hristov - here Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - absent Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - absent Yordan Apostolicov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov - here Yordanka Ivanova Fikirliyska - here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - here Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova - here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - here Krastina Nikolova Taskova - absent Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva - here Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - absent Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer - absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov - here Nikolay Asenov Tishev - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - here Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov - here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here To all those present here by the name of Nikolai, happy name day! Nona Krasteva Yotova - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov - here Pencho Plamenov Milkov - absent Petar Boykov Vitanov - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Peter Hristov Petrov - absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Plamen Trifonov Hristov - here Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev - here Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rumen Nikolov Georgiev - here Rumen Petrov Genov - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Sevim Ismail Ali - absent Sergey Manushov Kichikov - absent Simeon Georgiev Naydenov - here Simeon Christov Simeonov - absent Slavi Dichev Netzov - here Slavcho Georgiev Velkov - here 118 MPs are present. There's a quorum. We shall proceed with the vote. [[General applause from GERB.]] Before the inspection, we announced the conclusion of the debates and there was a vote to be taken. [[Noise and lines.]] The Quaestors, please invite the MPs from the towers. [[The DPS parliamentary group enters.]] We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 754-01-11, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs. Vote 160 MPs: 88, against 22, abstention 50. [[General applause from GERB.]] The motion has been passed, the bill has been passed in the first vote. That's what we're done with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 9:00 p.m., December 7th. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
