ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, there has been a project and on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose to include the following additional item in our weekly programme: Draft Decision on the election of Vice-President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Importer is Tsvetan Tsvetanov. I suggest that the point be the first for today's sitting. Please vote. Vote 181 MPs: for 171, against none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A COURSE AND FOUR PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Mr. Tsvetanov, come and introduce us to the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB, we propose as Vice-President of the National Assembly Emil Marinov Hristov, born June 5, 1957. He graduated from the Higher Military School in Shumen and Military Academy in Sofia. He has worked two mandates as Chairman of the Municipal Council "Stara Zagora." He also worked actively at the National Management Board of the Association of Presidents of Municipalities in Bulgaria. We believe that with the experience gained and its activity as a Member of Parliament in the current Parliament, it will actually be a worthy Vice-President of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting it to the vote. "Project" DECISION: electing Vice-President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 4, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure for the election of Vice-President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Emil Marinov Hristov from the political party GERB parliamentary group as Vice-President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Please vote. They voted 178 MPs: 123 against 7, abstention 48. The motion is accepted. Congratulations to Mr. Christov, let's congratulate him! [[Applause.]] We continue with messages: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria has, by its order, authorised the dispatch and use of aircraft and crew from the members of the Air Force for the performance of flights to provide air transport to a group of soldiers from the Military Formation 28 000, Count Ignatievo, by route of the Sofia airport, the Graff Ignatevo airport, the Batajnitsa airport, the Republic of Serbia, the Sofia airport and back on the relevant dates. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the relevant competent state authorities have been notified. The notification was received on 20 November 2017, with entry No 703-09-48 and was made available to the Defence Commission. - On 22 November 2017 the National Assembly was presented a draft and adopted resolution on the subject by the Economic and Social Council on the following topics: The premature exit of the educational system, problems and possible solutions. The material is provided to the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Let's continue with: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MINISTERITY OF INTERNAL WORKS, A sequel. Previously on a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. Mr. Mareshki, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! We of the Parliamentary Group of Volja do not welcome or encourage such extreme repainting from dark blue into blood red and the passage from the ranks of the true right, so called the SDS, into the ranks of the true left BSP. We also do not encourage participation in the groups of the past, which we are now all talking about all the time: revision of transactions, corruption, smuggling, banditism. However, this is a personal decision of each and every one of us, so in this regard we cannot have great claims against our colleague who has committed this act. After all, it's a matter of morality, of honor. We will not allow any MP, any representative of the government, to publicly insult 80% of the Bulgarian people, calling it a debilitate. [[Applause from GERB and from Volja.]] We will not allow history to be reduced, the role of the Bulgarian people and state in the rescue of the Bulgarian Jews to be reduced. We will be uncompromising and will not retreat until this man leaves parliament, because this is a disgrace to parliamentaryism. [[Replications and noise from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Anyone who does not oppose such phenomena becomes an accomplice to these things. Why are we so sharp in this criticism? Because the path from the 80% Bulgarian people retarded to the 80% Bulgarian people retarded in the concentration camps is very short. And who has allowed himself to call the Bulgarian people "debil" he can say: "These idiots should be in the concentration camps because they are ruining the race."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u5	Come on, let's get to work. Come on, come on!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u6	When we went looking for the retards, right now... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u7	Order in the court, fellow Members. Go on, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u8	We were trying to figure out who the retards were. At the moment, I see that the one who calls 80% of the Bulgarian people Debilís, sits and pretends to be polite. But I see other people who react differently. So they differ themselves from this exalted man, from this high moral man. That's how they define themselves in this kind. Last I'll tell you, in the last few days, we've witnessed certain party formations standing in defence of their comrades on different occasions. And I ask: " When will men be found to stand up for the Bulgarian people, which is like a moron?! Will men be found in parliament to defend Bulgarian history and protect heroism, the self-sacrifice that the Bulgarian people made, saving the Bulgarian Jews during the war? Topics of reflection, ladies and gentlemen. Think about it. I wish you success and fruitful work! [[Applause from GERB and from Volya. The Parliamentary Group is leaving the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. We continue with the second reading of the report. Mr. Tsvetanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We continue with the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior. Before we begin to look at the substance, I suggest that the Deputy Minister of Interior Krasimir Tsipov be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u11	Please, a voting regime on the proposal for admission so made. They voted 145 MPs: for 139, they won't mind, they abstentioned 6. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Tzipov. Continue, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u12	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 42: .............................................................................. Contracts under art. 92, para. 1 and 2, concluded by 31 December 2017, including, shall remain effective until such time as they cease to exist.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u13	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support § 28, which shall become § 42. Vote 155 MPs: 106 against 3, abstention 46. The proposal is adopted on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u14	Under § 29, there is a proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29, which shall become § 43: ..................................................... (1) The contracts for the implementation of fire-fighting and rescue activities and state fire-fighting control by the bodies for fire safety and protection of the population for (2) The contracts for carrying out fire-fighting and rescue activities and state fire-fighting control by the bodies for fire safety and protection of the population for objects other than those referred to in para. 1 concluded by 31 December 2017 inclusive, shall remain effective until such time as they cease to exist.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u15	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! With this paragraph, just to open a clamp, you know, we were absent last week from the meeting and did not attend the debates on the substance in the first part of this Law, this paragraph confirms a trend that was already buried in the first part, namely a process that will lead to the destruction of the Fire Department as such. Even to the Commission, we were strongly opposed to this activity of the Fire Department, which by law must be with the care of citizens and state property, to be paid. In practice, this paragraph continues, from the previously established texts, to the Fire Department to become a kind of part of something to generate revenue. It is not normal and we do not expect the Ministry of Interior to become a large trading company and to work for payment. For this reason, we want this paragraph not to be adopted further in this text, especially in the first subparagraph, we are impressed that it is at stake in Sofia Airport. What do I mean? As early as yesterday, the Minister of Transport said that the concession procedure for Sofia Airport will continue after the New Year and this airport will be concessionated. Here very clearly see the intention of this airport to be concessionated something that we are categorically opposed to. An exclusive state property which brings revenue to the State must be given in the case of unclear criteria. It is with this text that takes away the possibility of the Ministry of Interior, i.e. the Directorate General for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population, to guard this strategic site, and the most likely goal is to conclude temporary contracts after the New Year, while this airport is concessionated. That is precisely why, Mr. Tsvetanov and honourable Members, we insist that this paragraph should not be adopted and we are generally against the trend of the Ministry of Interior's activities being paid. This is not a commercial company, all the more so that you agreed with the Commission and mined at second reading this undertaking, which was determined to pay part of the activities to the Ministry of Interior to transfer this to both the Ministry itself in terms of security and in terms of fire safety and protection of the population. This is precisely how we reformatate the contracts that have been concluded to date. That is why I appeal to my fellow Members in this paragraph to be against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Tsvetanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I believe that this is not the case. I can say that by preparing a contractual relationship with the objects that you mentioned, you will be able to release additional numerical composition to cover the vacuum that is currently being created in the system. I can tell you that from the talks led by the management of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population and the Ministry of Energy, about 70 employees will be able to fill what was like a shortage of fire stations. You know that the first texts of our legislative change relate to the possibility of having fire stations with two firefighters who can respond adequately at the first hours of a fire or disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. - What's the line? Mr. Ivanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, to some extent you have your reasons, because the policy that the Ministry of Interior is trying to impose on fire safety is precisely a reduction of the numerical composition, for which we strongly oppose. Since you have opened the topic of compositions in small towns, as this text has already passed and voted, I will take advantage of my right to replicate you, as you have raised this topic. You know that the employees of the General Directorate of Fire Safety and Population Protection themselves were strongly opposed to this change because it threatens the lives and health of these employees. You know their motives, you really know how a squad works that needs to be on duty and actually put into action, like putting out a house. Personally, I don't know if it's burning down a house in Sofia or one of the villages in Sofia. You know what the minimum requirements are for such a team to fire. What do two people have to do next?! You know, one should pass water, the other should enter the house and so on. In general, my concerns are, I hope, not to be right, but there is a danger that they will lead to a loss of living power from the available composition. That is another motive for us to be against this paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there gonna be a second line? I won't. Mr. Tsvetanov. I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Yankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With the proposed text, and with the additional explanation we have heard from Mr. Tsvetanov, it becomes clear that the Ministry of Interior continues to be used as a trading company. What is incorrect in the proposal is that the National Assembly adopts a budget for the Ministry of Interior as well, and according to the proposed budget it must allocate the funds and ensure the security, safety of the Bulgarian citizens, ensure that it performs the tasks that have been replaced by law. At the same time, additional funds are available to the Ministry of Interior, according to signed contracts, which, firstly, are not subject to control by the National Assembly, as the budget itself adopted by Parliament is subject to control, and, secondly, gives the opportunity, as we have just heard, to secure funds for about 70 staff of the General Directorate of Fire Safety and the protection of the population. Honourable Members, the proposed budget for the Ministry of Interior provides funds for 46 000 employees. By state they are 49 800, that is, it is proposed that a non-completion be not financed, bets about 10%, and at the same time will be blocked with contracts as a commercial company by the Ministry of Interior to provide funds for about 70 people, and that will be after talks with the Ministry of Energy. Should the Ministry of Energy provide additional funds for the Ministry of Interior? It's about contracts with state-owned companies. This is a circumvention of the legal framework, on the one hand. Secondly, you accepted from the majority to end Rumyana Bachvarova's venture as a state-owned enterprise, which also allowed the Ministry of Interior to be used as a commercial company. At the same time, you continue with the practice of the Ministry of Interior to sign contracts and companies to pay the Ministry of Interior for the service which must also be guaranteed to the people who work in these companies and to the legal entities themselves. This is ridiculous! In the first term of your government, you opposed the use of the Ministry of Interior as a trading company, but at the same time in the Transitional and Final Provisions and in the texts that you voted in our absence, you allowed this to be a practice. A practice in which the Ministry of Interior will be able to further negotiate funds is unacceptable and destructive for the work of the Ministry! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? Mr. Tsvetanov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, the way you put your arguments is absolutely false! We are not talking about business or business here, but we are talking about activities that will be carried out and have to be paid. As far as the contracts are concerned, just to remind you that it was you who closed the SOD-MVR, which is clear to everyone that this was a gross mistake, because the SOD-MVR could be used for both national and state institutions, and this was the activity that was a complete guarantee that there would be security and that it could actually counter the abuses that it has on state property. I would not like to enter into the controversy of comparing the management periods, reaching today's legislative activity. I believe that each of us has the opportunity to really state our motives. I will refrain from comments and lines because I believe that there is some other subtext of the legislative changes that we are looking at today and which have passed in the Committee on Security and Public Order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Second line? I don't see a second line. Mr. Iankov, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Tsvetanov, I understand that you are accustomed to the practice of having more funds that can be uncontrollably directed for listening to Bulgarian citizens and for a way that does not guarantee the freedom of Bulgarian citizens. Probably the line you're taking is pointed right that way. These funds will be outside the control of both the public and the National Assembly. What will these funds be used for? You say it will be for the salaries of another 70 employees and for the funds that are needed. But is it not buried here that your desire to have funds to be used in the work of the Ministry of Interior with bad intentions, because, when the funds are out of control, may the management of the Ministry of Interior decide that it will take advantage of this as well? Speaking of previous mandates, including the mandate in which you were Minister of the Interior, there are plenty of overlays in our society and such attitude. The very fact that you're offering it raises doubts. You need to dispel these doubts, Mr. Tsvetanov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate on this paragraph. I shall put to the vote § 29, which shall become § 43, which the Commission shall support. Vote 155 MPs: 103, against 42, abstention 10. Paragraph 43 of the Commission's report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u28	According to § 30, there is a proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 30, which shall become § 44: ..................................................... In the Law on Protection of Disasters (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6b, para. 1 t. 4, 5 and 6 are amended as follows: "4." principles in the implementation of the strategy; 5. identifying measures to achieve the objectives set; 6. principles on which the indicators for the implementation of the measures under point 6 are based. 5; 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) A new para shall be created. 18 and para. 19: The disaster protection plans referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be implemented in accordance with the principles set out in the Annex to this Decision. 4, 8 and 10 are developed in a way that ensures the transfer of management of disasters from municipal to regional and national, respectively. (19) The disaster protection plans under para. 4, 8 and 10 are also being developed to achieve the objectives of the National Strategy for Disaster Risk Reduction. (b) the current para. 18 becomes para. 20. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1, t. 1 is finally a comma and is added to it based on a risk assessment. (b) in para. 3, p. 5 shall be added at the end to provide early warning to staff, competent authorities and the population. (c) the creation of para. 4 -7: The local disclosure systems under para. 3, p. 5 may not be built in objects representing constructions under art. 137, para. 1, t. 1 (d) of the Law on Construction in the Area, in cases where the maximum possible consequences for staff, population and the environment of an accident as defined in the plan under para. 1 shall not cause loss of human life, trauma or other health consequences outside the territory of the site due to: 1. the quantity and physical characteristics of the hazardous substances available; 2. Distance from constructions first, second and third category under art. 137, para. 1 of the Law on Construction in the Area; 3. Distance from residential buildings, buildings and facilities for public service, as well as production buildings, installations, facilities and adjoining infrastructure. (5) Local disclosure systems under para. 3, p. 5 may not be built in objects representing constructions under art. 137, para. 1, t. 1 (e) of the Law on construction of the territory in cases where in the event of an accident in the bay areas defined in the plan under para. 1, do not fall: 1. Constructions first, second and third category under art. 137, para. 1 of the Law on Construction in the Area; 2. residential buildings, buildings and facilities for public service as well as production buildings, installations, facilities and adjoining infrastructure. (6) Local disclosure systems under para. 3, p. 5 provide an opportunity for: 1. immediate submission of an alert to the relevant operational centre of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population 2. warning the population by activating them from the relevant operational center of the Directorate General for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population. (7) The conditions and procedures for the fulfilment of the requirements of para. 6 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in art. 62, para. 2, p. 5. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1: (aa) c. 3 the words The responsible structures and the comma in front of them are deleted; (bb) c. 5 the words "structurings' and "structurings' are deleted; (b) in para. 2 t. 3 is canceled. 5. In Chapter 4, Section III is established. 47a: Art. 47a. (1) Voluntary formations may associate on a voluntary principle to resolve common issues and to achieve objectives of mutual interest. (2) For the protection of their common interests and for the maintenance and development of their activities, voluntary formations may establish a national association. (3) The National Association shall be entitled to: 1. represent its members before the state authorities; 2. develop proposals to change and improve the legal framework of voluntary formations; 3. participate in the preparation and training of volunteers; 4. make contacts and interactions with related organisations from other countries, as well as to be a member of international associations; 5. carry out other activities defined by law and by the instrument of incorporation. (4) The Ministry of Interior shall assist in carrying out the activities of the National Association of Volunteers, and may grant it for free use the premises of the State property necessary for the performance of its activities. (5) The rights under para. 3 shall be exercised provided that more than half of the voluntary formations established in accordance with Article 3 of the National Association are members of the National Association. 41. ) (a.k.a. OJ L 347, 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the words "Prime Minister' shall be replaced by "Prime Minister' or "Deputy Minister'; (b) paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The Commission shall be assisted administratively by the Directorate General for Fire Safety and Population Protection. The Commission's procedural representation is carried out by the legal advisors of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) a) Previous text becomes para. 1 and in it the words are fined from 500 to 2000 BGN. or with a penalty of 3,000 to 10 000 BGN are replaced by a fine of 200 to 2000 BGN. or with a penalty of 1000 to 5000 BGN; (b) the creation of para. 2: For minor infringements, the persons referred to in para. 1 is punished with a fine from 100 to 200 BGN. or a penalty of EUR 200 to BGN 500 is imposed. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 words - fine from 2000 to 5000 lv. or with a penalty of 15 000 to 25 000 BGN (BGN) are replaced by a fine of 200 to 2000 BGN. or with a penalty of 1000 to 5000 BGN; (b) in para. 2 words fined from 2000 to 5000 BGN. or with a penalty of 5000 to 15 000 BGN... are replaced by a fine of 200 to 2000 BGN. or with a penalty of 1000 to 5000 BGN; (c) in para. 5 words fined from 1500 to 10 000 leva. or with a penalty of 3,000 to 15 000 BGN are replaced by a fine of 200 to 2000 BGN. or with a penalty of 1000 to 5000 BGN......................................................................................................... 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 words - fine of 500 to 5000 lv. or with a penalty of 5000 to 50 000 BGN and are replaced by a fine of 200 to 2000 BGN. or with a penalty of 1000 to 5000 BGN; (b) the creation of para. 3: For minor infringements, the persons referred to in para. 1 is punished with a fine of 100 to 200 BGN. or a penalty of EUR 200 to BGN 500 is imposed. 10. In § 1 of the Additional Provisions: (a) point 24 is amended as follows: It's 24 o'clock. "Reactions' are actions taken immediately before, during or immediately after the disaster in order to save lives, reduce health impacts, ensure public safety and the basic needs of the affected people. (b) To be created t. 27: "27." In order to achieve the overall objective, disaster management is a process of coordinating the efforts of the different structures of the single rescue system and their joint work to achieve the common objective............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 11. In the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection of Disasters ( SG No. 51 of 2016) The following amendments shall be made to the Transitional and Final Provisions: 1. In § 50, the words "up to 6 months' shall be replaced by "up to two years'. 2. In § 51, the words "up to one year' shall be replaced by "up to three years'. 3. In § 54, para. 2 the words "up to 9 months" shall be replaced by "up to two years."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u29	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thus, the proposed texts are not indisputable, but we from the BSP for Bulgaria and we will support them. However, I am obliged to draw attention to specific texts that are not sustainable legislation, as the formed majority with the main pillar Political Party GERB, with this proposal changes again the Law on Protection of Disasters. Firstly, many changes are being made through the Law amending and supplementing the law on the Ministry of Interior in other laws. Texts are added which, including the need to find their support during public discussion. Why do I say 'unstable legislation'? Available in art. 54, para. 1 words to be replaced by the Minister of Interior or Deputy Minister of Interior, which to some extent reduces the level of competence with regard to the Deputy Minister of Interior, but this can be settled by other regulations. We welcome the reduction of fines. We believe that the penalty with high fines is not as effective as the preventive and explanatory work. Moreover, the proposal itself relates to the finding of non-collection of these high fines for infringements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Any lines to Mr. Iankov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support § 30, which shall become § 44. They voted 129 MPs: 125 against 1, abstention 3. Paragraph 44 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u32	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31, which shall become § 45. ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the National Emergency System Act with a single European number 112 (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8, para. 1, t. 1 after the word "calls', a comma shall be placed and added, including "eCall'. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28, para. 1 after the word 3. In § 1 of the additional provisions, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 6: It's six. "eCall" is an emergency call from a vehicle to number 112 (prom., SG No. ...), made automatically by activation of the vehicle's on-board sensors or by manual dialling, which, via mobile networks, carries a standardised minimum set of data and makes a sound connection between passengers in the vehicle and the most appropriate public emergency reception centre. 4. In the Law amending and supplementing the National Emergency System Act with a single European number 112 in the final provision of § 3, the words "one year' shall be replaced by "two years'.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u33	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House. The proposed changes are in the National Emergency System Act with a single European number 112. The law has been voted on since 2008 and needs improvement. Thus, the proposed amendment to the Law regulates the possibility of connecting with 112 and one more time. However, does the 112 system identify which subscriber received the call? Is it possible to determine where the call point is, or can false signals be generated? I draw attention to the ruling majority and to the executive, represented in the Chamber by Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov, as I have information that 112 specifically has such a problem. I pay attention to you when you look at the specific texts in order to ensure the effective functioning of the 112 Emergency Call Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support § 31, which shall become § 45. Vote 128 MPs: 97, none, abstention 31. Paragraph 45 shall be adopted on the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u36	The Commission shall support the text of the importer of § 32 which shall become § 46.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u37	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support § 32, which shall become § 46. Vote 117 MPs: 85, none, abstention 32. The proposal has been adopted, and with that, § 46 on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u38	A proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 33: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the created art. 7a is amended as follows: ..................................................... 7a. The representation of unaccompanied minors in proceedings under this Law shall be carried out by staff of the Directorate of Social Assistance. The order is laid down in the Rules of Law Enforcement. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 10 the following amendments shall be made: ..2.1. In b. 2.1.2. In the new content of art. 6 after the word "covering" the measures under para. 5 may not be applied 2.2. In b. I'm sorry, but I'm 2.2.1. The amendment under paras are out of the question. 8 introductory sentence of b. ==References=====External links===*"Source"Source"Source"Source"Source"Source"Source"Source"Source"Source"Source"Source"Source"Source"Source"Source"Source"Source"Source"Source"Source"Source"Source"Source" 2.2. In the new content of para. 9 in a sentence first after the word "suppliers" is added and in a sentence fourth the word "supplier" is replaced by "suppliers." 2.3. In b. The new content of para. 13 is amended as follows: supposed to be In the case of an unidentifiable foreigner after an individual assessment of the principle of proportionality and proportionality, the authority referred to in para. 1 may issue a short-term accommodation order to him in a special home for temporary residence of foreigners for as short as possible not more than 30 calendar days for initial identification and identification activities. Foreigners suspected of being underage and underage shall be accommodated with their escorts in special premises. Short-term accommodation shall not apply to unaccompanied minors. The authority issuing the short-term housing order shall transmit the person to a representative of the relevant Directorate of Social Assistance and shall immediately take protection measures under the Child Protection Act. An illegal resident foreigner shall not be re-arranged in a specific unit of a special home for temporary accommodation of foreigners in the short term. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 11 the following amendments shall be made: "3.1. The letter "s" and the letter "b" cancel out. 3.2. The letter "in" becomes the content of the letter. 11, and in it the words: "Al." 1 under Art. 44, para. 8 or... drop out. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 12 in the introductory sentence, the word "create' is replaced by "create'. 4d and "and" is added. 4d....:........................................................................................... ..4d. Unaccompanied is this minor and minor foreigner who arrives in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and is not accompanied by a parent or other adult who is responsible for him under Bulgarian law or practice until the care for him is actually taken over by such a person. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2.1.1. and does not support it in the rest. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 33, which shall become § 47: ss ss s s s s s In the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, para. 3 in the text before t. 1 the words within the meaning of this law shall be replaced by the persons who live with it in a household and are. 2. Article 1 is inserted in Chapter 1. 7a: Art. 7a. Unaccompanied minors are represented in the proceedings under this law by the Social Assistance Directorate at their place of residence. 3. A new article shall be created. 14a: Art. 14a. (1) A short-stay visa may also be issued to a foreigner who wishes to carry out seasonal work on the terms of art. 24L. (2) In the cases under para. 1 of the visa sticker is noted that it has been issued for the purpose of seasonal work. 4. In para. 23, para. 1, t. 2 is finally a comma and is added except in the cases provided for in this law. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 4 a comma shall be placed after the words "for permanent residence' and a member of a family of a Bulgarian citizen who has exercised his right to free movement and holds a valid residence document as a member of a family of a Union citizen issued by another Member State of the European Union; (b) the creation of para. 9... In the event of the death of a Bulgarian citizen, the right to long stay of members of his family authorised under art. 24m is not affected if they have resided in the Republic of Bulgaria at least one year before his death as family members. (10) In the event of the death of a Bulgarian citizen the right to long stay allowed under the order of art. 24 m of a family member exercising parental rights and his children shall not be affected, under conditions that children are enrolled in a school by the pre-school and school education system or at a higher school until the end of the training or when they provide evidence of subsequent stages of their training. (11) A member of the family of a Bulgarian citizen with a right under art. 24h reserves the right to continue residence on termination of the marriage if it fulfils the conditions of being a worker or self-employed person in the Republic of Bulgaria and holds health insurance and the necessary funds to cover the costs of its residence and those of its family members, without being a burden on the social assistance system, and with regard to it there is one of the following circumstances: 1. the marriage lasted for at least three years, of which one year in the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. exercise parental rights within the meaning of a judgment; 3. suffered from domestic violence prior to the termination of the marriage, as well as in other cases where this is justified in view of particularly difficult circumstances that occurred not at the will of the foreigner, which he could not have predicted or prevented; 4. has the right to visit a minor by virtue of a judgment provided that the judicial decision provides that the visits are to be carried out in the Republic of Bulgaria. (12) The persons referred to in para. 9 " 11' should prove that they are workers or self-employed or that they have sufficient funds for themselves and their family members so that they do not become a burden on the social assistance system during their stay and that they have full health insurance. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24l, para. 1 after the words.90 days and after the word "visa" is added "for short-term residence." 7. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 24m: Art. 24 meters. (1) A member of the family of a Bulgarian citizen who has exercised his right to free movement and holds a valid residence document as a member of a family of a Union citizen issued by another Member State of the European Union shall submit an application to the Directorate of the (2) The application under para. 1 shall be submitted within three months of the date of entry of the person into the Republic of Bulgaria and shall apply: 1. valid passport; 2. documents on the existence of relations; 3. a document for a paid state fee; 4. documents on legal residence in the other Member State; 5. medical documents concerning the existence of serious health reasons which require the personal care of the Bulgarian citizen in cases where applicable. (3) The residence card of a family member of a Union citizen certifying his or her right of continued residence shall be issued within three months of the application and shall be valid for 5 years. (4) In the absence of any of the documents under para. 2 of the person shall be determined 14 days from the notification of his presentation until the expiry of which the period under para. 3 stops running. In the event that the requested documents are not submitted within the prescribed time limit, the administrative authority shall take action to terminate the proceedings under the Administrative Procedure Code. 8. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 25d: Art. 25 years. (1) A member of the family of a Bulgarian citizen who is allowed long stay under the order of art. 24m, has the right to permanent residence if he has legally resided continuously for a period of 5 years in the Republic of Bulgaria together with the Bulgarian citizen or if he has legally resided continuously for a period of 5 years in the Republic of Bulgaria in cases under art. 24, para. 9, 10 and 11. (2) For the issue of a residence card of a family member of a citizen of the Union to certify his right of permanent residence, the person under para. 1 submit an application to the Directorate of the Ministry of Interior or to the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior two months before the expiry of the period of continued residence. (3) A residence card of a family member of a Union citizen certifying his right of permanent residence shall be issued within one month of the submission of the application. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26, para. 2 after the words 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraphs 1 and 2 are amended as follows: The European Union's Blue Card may receive foreigners who are highly qualified workers within the meaning of the Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Act and hold a visa under art. 15, para. 1 or permission for long stay in the Republic of Bulgaria on another basis. (2) The authorisation under para. 1 shall be issued after a decision by the authorities of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for up to four years. In the event that the term of the contract of employment is less, the authorisation shall be granted for the term of the contract extended by three months and may be renewed if there are grounds for re-issue. (b) the creation of para. 6: "Authorisation under para. 1 shall not receive foreigners who have received the right to long stay on the grounds of art. Art. 24b, Art. Art. 24k. 24m, the faces of art. 24l, as well as family members of Union citizens who have exercised or exercised their right to free movement within the territory of the European Union and have received the right of residence under the Law on the entry, residence and exit of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union who are not Bulgarian citizens and members of their families. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1: (aa) c. 1 after the words (bb) c. 5 words except in the cases referred to in art. 25, para. 1, t. 6, 7, 8, 13 and 16 25, para. 1, t. Art. 6, 7, 8, 13, 16 and art. 25d (c) c. 6 the words "residence" under art. 25, para. 1, t. 6, 7, 8, 13 and 16 shall be replaced by a residence under art. 25, para. 1, t. Art. 6, 7, 8, 13, 16 and art. 25d (dd) c. 10 is finally a comma and is added to it except for the cases referred to in art. Art. 24m. 25d (ed) create a t. 13: "13." member of the family of a Bulgarian citizen with the right to permanent residence under art. 25 years is absent from the Republic of Bulgaria for a period longer than two consecutive years. (b) in para. 4 is finally a comma and is added to it except for the cases referred to in art. 25 years. 12. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 41a: Art. 41a. To a foreigner who has been subject to a forced administrative measure under art. A European travel document may be issued to it as required by Regulation (EU) 2016/1953 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 on the promotion of a European travel document on the return of illegally staying third-country nationals and repealing the Council Recommendation of 30 November 1994. (OJ L 311/13 of 17 November 2016) in order laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42 are created. 5 and 6: Where the order for expulsion against a family member of a Bulgarian citizen who has been granted a right of residence under art. Art. 24m or art. 25 years has not been completed more than two years after its entry into force, the authority which issued it shall verify whether the factual grounds for issuing are still present. Where the factual grounds have been dropped, the order shall be revoked. (6) A member of the family of a Bulgarian citizen who has been granted a right of residence under art. Art. 24m or art. For 25 years, and for whom expulsion has been imposed, it is not expelled into a country where its life and freedom are at risk of persecution, torture or inhumane or degrading treatment. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) paragraphs 5 and 6 are amended as follows: Where there are obstacles to leaving the country immediately or entering another country and there are no scheduled actions for its upcoming exit, the authority issuing the order for the enforcement of the administrative measure, or the Director of the Directorate of Migration, after assessing the individual circumstances and the danger of concealing or thwarting the return shall otherwise order an order under the rules for the enforcement of the law, the implementation together or separately of any of the following precautionary measures: 1. The foreigner undertakes to appear weekly in the territorial structure of the Ministry of Interior for his residence; 2. the foreigner shall submit a personal or third-party monetary guarantee within the time limit and in the amount laid down by the Rules for the Implementation of the Law; 3. The foreigner shall transmit a valid passport or other travel document to a temporary pledge abroad, which he shall receive back in the event of the return or expulsion. (6) In cases where the foreigner to whom a forced administrative measure has been imposed under art. 39a, para. 1, t. 2 and 3, prevent the execution of the order or there is a danger of concealment, the authorities of para. 1 may issue an order for forced accommodation of the alien in a special home for temporary accommodation of foreigners in order to organise the return or expulsion. Forced accommodation shall also be ordered in cases where the foreigner does not fulfil the conditions of the imposed under para. 5 precautionary measures. (b) paragraphs 8-10 are amended as follows: The accommodation shall continue until the circumstances of para. Six, but not more than six months. For the existence of the grounds for forced accommodation in a special home shall be carried out on an annual basis by the Director of the Directorate of Migration. By way of exception, where the person refuses to assist the competent authorities or there is a delay in obtaining the necessary documents for return or expulsion at the date of expiry of the authorised period of forced accommodation under para. 6, The Director of the Directorate of Migration shall be able to issue an order to continue the forced lodging in the Special House for a period not exceeding an additional 12 months. The order for the continuation of forced accommodation shall be subject to appeal under art. 46a, para. 1 and 2. Where, in the light of the specific circumstances of the case, it is established that there is no longer a reasonable possibility for legal or technical reasons for the removal of the alien, the person shall be released immediately. (9) By way of exception, in the circumstances of para. 6 an order for forced lodging in a special home shall be issued for the accompanying minors for a period of up to three months. In special homes under para. 7 Accommodation of minors and minors with suitable age and needs conditions shall be established. Forced accommodation shall not apply to unaccompanied minors. The authority issuing the order to impose the forced administrative measure shall transmit the person to an employee of the relevant Directorate of Social Assistance, who shall take protection measures under the Child Protection Act. (10) The accommodation of foreigners in special homes shall be carried out on the basis of an order of forced accommodation issued by the competent authority under para. 1 specifying explicitly the necessity and legal basis for accommodation, a copy of the order for the forced administrative measure to be applied shall also apply. (c) in para. 11 the words "including minors and minors' shall be deleted; (d) paragraph 13 is amended as follows: In the case of a foreigner with an unidentified identity, the authority under para. 1 After an individual assessment of the principles of proportionality and proportionality, a short-term accommodation order may be issued against it in a special home for temporary accommodation of foreigners for a period of up to 30 calendar days for the conduct of initial identification and identification actions and for the assessment of the subsequent administrative measures to be taken. Foreigners suspected of being underage shall be accommodated with their escorts in special premises. Re-arresting of a foreigner in a particular short-term accommodation unit in a special home for temporary accommodation of foreigners shall not be allowed. (e) the creation of para. 14: The order under para. 5 which ordered the implementation of a safeguard measure may be appealed within 14 days of its issue under the Administrative Procedure Code. The complaint shall not stop the execution of the order. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 3 is repealed; (b) paragraph 4 is repealed; (c) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: When the court revokes the contested order for forced lodging under para. Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, 44, para. Art. 8 or art. 44, para. 12, the foreigner is released immediately from the special home. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50, para. 1, t. 1 words.............................................................................. 44, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 17. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 20: It's 20. "Instructions of housing' are documents as follows: 1. a deed or other document proving the ownership or use of the property; 2. notarized declaration by the owner to provide a residence address - upon presentation of a rental contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u39	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u40	Honourable Members, Madam President! At first reading, by voting on this bill, and every bill, it is discussed in general and in whole. We ruled on his basics. This is in accordance with our Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. According to another text of our Rules of Procedure, under bills regulating labour and insurance relations, the Chair of the committee responsible must request an opinion of the Council on tripartite cooperation. At first reading in the Ministry of Interior Act, there were no such proposals such as this in this paragraph and the next one, I take into account both, but this is not necessary, as the Ministry of Interior Act is a legal act which regulates quite other public relations. Texts were submitted between first and second readings by fellow Members of the National Assembly aimed at a decisive change in two laws for foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria and on labour migration and labour mobility, which regulate access to the Bulgarian labour market of third-country individuals. These are relationships in society that are unrelated to public relations regulated by the Ministry of Interior Act, which you have been listening to so far. A protocol of discussions on the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation was posted on the National Assembly's website after its discussion in the Internal Committee for Second Reading, and this protocol shows that the two major Bulgarian trade unions are decisively opposed. In this regard are their explicit opinions, also available on the National Assembly's website. Undoubtedly, on the other hand, representatives of employers' organisations, as well as specialists in the field, in their speeches and opinions in recent years, have formulated the problem. We recognise and note that there is already a shortage of workers in Bulgaria and this is due both to the great labour migration of Bulgarians to the European Union and other countries, as well as to the demographic catastrophe. At the same time, though there is talk of this problem, we do not think there is the necessary objective study for its real dimensions, although we all take it into account and recognise it, I repeat, it can be seen that the opening of Bulgaria's labour market has an impact on another major problem for our society, namely the demographic crisis. In my opinion, related problems are also the exports from Bulgaria of more and more qualified labour, which is reported. This is also evident from the information provided by the Institute for Study of the Population and Humanities at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences that the educational structure of Bulgarians residing abroad is changing, the share of people with higher education and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences justifies the conclusion that demographics and education are even directly related. In my opinion, measures to open the labour market should be taken, but they should not be self-sufficient, outside a complex of measures, which is limiting the labour migration of Bulgarians, especially of our highly qualified fellow citizens, raising the salaries of Bulgarian employers for work, and for the same work for which in other countries Bulgarian workers receive more, binding the Bulgarian education to the economy. After a while, they may answer me that there is a problem, which I admitted was not contrary to the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. This is a formal fact, and that the initial proposals have been made, and that was a fact because we have witnessed much more aggressive changes to open the labour market and that it still has to be started somewhere. I believe that we cannot take haste and a piece of measures with regard to a problem that should be solved after, again, I say, an objective analysis that is absent also when straining the scientific, intellectual capacity of our society. That's not what we're offered today in the next paragraph. These are partial measures introduced between the two readings, there is no public discussion, there is no consensus with the trade unions. In my opinion, they will not lead to a solution to the problem that I have formulated. That is why we will not support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. - What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Milkov, the proposals may be partial, they may not solve the problem, but they concern mainly, as well as the next paragraph, because you have touched on the next paragraph, not only on the one we are commenting on at the moment, the admission of the labour market in Bulgaria, of a large part of those people who are foreign citizens of Bulgarian origin, which contributes to this, that they have the opportunity to really work in Bulgaria, to solve the problems to some extent with the lack of sufficiently qualified labour force in Bulgaria, and also the opportunity when they reside in Bulgaria to integrate into the Bulgarian society. However, when this contributes, Bulgarian communities across the border to be given the opportunity to reach the Bulgarian labour market in this way, this is good. That shouldn't be denied. We must not deny when something positive is done and our compatriots abroad are given the opportunity to join the Bulgarian society. Of course, this does not solve the problems of the demographic crisis, does not solve entirely the problems with the lack of qualified labour, but this really contributes to helping Bulgarian communities abroad and supporting the Bulgarian labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u43	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Second line? I don't see a second line. Will there be a hole? Here you go, Mr. Milkov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u44	Mr. Angelov, I am using my right to the backrest to tell you that the problem that you are fixing, namely, there are indeed provisions in this respect and here we are absolutely of the same opinion, but again I say that we cannot legislate in a piece, we cannot accept such changes without even the opinion of the Social Committee. This bill didn't go through there. We cannot accept changes in labour law and labour relations with the Ministry of Interior Act. Undoubtedly, efforts to involve Bulgarian communities abroad among our compatriots are not. We need to look for resources and employment and demographics. In this direction we are absolutely of the same opinion, but I say again, in order to do it properly, this bill should have been in two readings, there should have been a public discussion, it should have passed through the Social Committee, it should have been taken into account and the formulation at the moment and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is working on the issue of demographic problems and processes in Bulgaria. This is what I have addressed to you, otherwise I agree that these communities and the texts that are in the Law, in this regard, are separate and do not refer to any explicit texts, you will see those who speak of people of Bulgarian origin, but there are also those who open the market for third-country nationals, for a longer period, without an opinion of the trade unions, and not only for highly qualified employees, as mentioned in the discussions in the Commission. We are also talking about mass labour entry here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Second statement? Mr. Baychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u46	Madam President, honourable Members! I sincerely want to believe that the proposed legislative changes are of noble motive, but the way they are being carried out raise doubts in us and for this reason we have no reason to support them. As colleague Milkov rightly said, the change made was made between first and second readings without the possibility of public discussion and pronunciation by the trade unions. This problem is rooted deep back in our past, when in the 1990s governments promoted our country to investors as a country that has highly qualified personnel working for low remuneration, however. Unfortunately, as a result of this policy from our country for promotion only the low remuneration remains. As we can see, the already highly qualified personnel are missing even for our economy, and let alone assist and export minds. My question is: how long will we monitor only the interests of investors and employers and when will we take care of the interests of ordinary citizens in this country who work here, pay their taxes here, create the goods here and not somewhere abroad? This policy, which is offered to us, leads only to emigration and the leakage of qualified personnel from the country. But what do we tell the people who have stayed and continue here? We tell them the following: you will either work for the salary as we give you, or we will bring in people from third countries. It does not matter that these will be Bulgarians, but this will affect the labour market of the local, as well as the people who want their children to stay here, to study and work. My call is rather to turn around and make the necessary changes in education, because the lack of so-called mid-time staff is a consequence of the closure of technicians. What we did with them is rename them in professional high schools and transfer them to municipalities. One municipality has neither the capacity nor the vision... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u47	Mr. Baychev, this is a completely different topic. Don't deviate from the subject, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u48	We're looking at the Homeland Security Act in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u49	...namely, the Homeland Security Act we're looking at. With this bill being proposed to us, we intervene indirectly between trade unions, workers and employers, taking the side of employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. A line? Here you go. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u51	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable Members of the BSP! Not a week since the debate on the measures to deal with the demographic catastrophe took place at your request. As I recall, you very much insisted on concrete and urgent action at the time. From the stand we said and united around the opinion that there is no longer time for idle talk and must be acted on. Now with great disappointment, I can say with deep regret, I hear your position when something concrete is being offered, both in relation to the labour market and in dealing with the demographic crisis, by attracting Bulgarians from traditional communities abroad, good professionals, hardworking people who will help much for the development of our country, you for some party, political reasons you probably refuse to support this step. I will therefore ask you next time we comment on actions to deal with the demographic crisis, to be so kind as to note that one of the great merits of not doing anything specifically in this direction is of your political power. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. Second line, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! However, let's stick to the second reading texts. I will only make one clarification because there have been a lot of accusations that there was no public discussion that there was no coordination between the relevant institutions or affected parties. Just to say that, by letter from the Internal Commission, we sent a letter on 25 October to the Trilateral Council, you know that Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov heads the Trilateral Council. On 27 October, a meeting was held with which we have requested a protocol from precisely this point, which concerns whether it is agreed and whether the Trilateral Council is aware and, at the same time, trade unions were involved in this process. In the working group, we have complied with the proposals we are proposing today. I'm very sorry...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u54	What's the answer?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u55	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u56	Do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u57	When we have a working group, we use the expertise and all the parties involved in clearing the texts. I therefore appeal to all colleagues who are members of the Internal Commission, if they are willing to participate in the legislative process, there are messages sent to all Members to participate in these working groups. The working group has done absolutely everything that corresponds to the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. Please, let's stick to the texts we are looking at today. It's all done, it's agreed and the Trilateral Council has been informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Is there gonna be a third line? I can't see. For the coat, Mr. Baichev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u59	I agree with you, Mr. Tsvetanov, but let us say clearly and aloud that the unions are firmly against these changes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u60	We've taken them into account.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u61	Thank you. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of Mr. Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs, and there is a supported proposal. 1.1, the rest of Mr. Tsvetanov read it, it's unsupported. I shall put to the vote the proposal not supported by the Commission. They voted 118 MPs: 36, against 66, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support § 33, which shall become § 47. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u62	They voted 121 MPs: 92, against 3, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. Moving on, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u63	There is a proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs: screated § 33a: "3." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. 2 after the words "social policy" the words "may be" added. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) In the main text of para. 2 words.............................................................................. 7, para. 1, t. 1, 3 and 4 and shall be replaced by the following: 7, para. 1, t. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the Commission considers that the aid 5. Article 18 is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 3 et c. 4 (a) and 4 (b) Five, and he supports it in general in the rest of it. The Commission proposes to establish § 48: ............... 48............................................................... The law on labour migration and labour mobility makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 4 a comma shall be finally placed and added except in the cases explicitly mentioned in this Law. (b) in para. 8 words - BGN 400 (BGN 400) are replaced by BGN 100 (BGN 400). 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8, para. 1, t. 1 is finally a comma and is added except in the case of seasonal work under art. 24, ) (a.k.a. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 3 at the end is a comma and is added which is not less than 12 months. (b) paragraph 4 is amended as follows: When reaching the maximum term under art. 33k, para. 2 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, the decision under para. 1 shall be provided in accordance with the order of para. 2. (c) the creation of para. 5. When applying for initial access to the labour market and extending the term of the Blue Card of the European Union shall not apply the requirement under art. 5, para. 2..................................................... 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2 a dash shall be inserted at the end and added until the maximum period under art. 33k, para. 2 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria (b) the creation of para. 3: "(3) After the term under para. 1 The holder of the Blue Card of the European Union may change his employer under the conditions and under the terms of art. 17................................................ 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 3 after the words.90 days... shall be added without interruption................................................................................................................. (b) the creation of para. 4. In the cases referred to in art. 24k, para. 4 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria the decision under para. 1 shall be made available under accelerated procedure under conditions and in order laid down by the Rules of Law. 6. Article 29 is amended as follows: Art. 29. (1) In the cases referred to in art. 24k of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria the seasonal worker can change his employer once in accordance with art. 24, para. 1 for a period of up to 9 months within the calendar year starting from the date of issue of the original authorisation for a seasonal worker, without applying the requirement under art. 5, para. 2. (2) In the cases referred to in art. 24k, para. 7 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria the seasonal worker can continue to work with the same employer, as well as to change it according to the order of para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 7. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 29a: Art. 29a. (1) In the cases referred to in art. 24l of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria the seasonal worker can continue to work with permission under art. 24, para. 1 for a period of up to 9 months within the calendar year from the date of issue of the initial authorisation for a seasonal worker without applying the requirement under art. 5, para. 2. (2) In the cases referred to in art. 24k, para. 7 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria the seasonal worker can continue to work with the same employer, as well as to change it according to the order of para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 7. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 29a: Art. 29a. (1) In the cases referred to in art. 24l of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria the seasonal worker can continue to work with permission under art. 24, para. 1 for a period of up to 9 months within the calendar year from the date of initial registration of employment, with the same employer or to change it without applying the requirement under art. 5, para. 2. (2) In the cases under para. 1 The Executive Director of the Employment Agency shall provide the decision under Article 1. 24, para. 1 within 7 working days following an application from the employer. (3) The application under para. 2 shall be submitted no later than 14 days before the expiry of the period of registration of seasonal employment under art. 24, para. 3. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41, para. 4 the words "the tax" under art. 7, para. The amount of BGN 400 shall be replaced by the amount of BGN 400 and shall be replaced by the amount of BGN 400. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45, para. 3 words the tax under art. 7, para. The amount of BGN 400 shall be replaced by the amount of BGN 400 and shall be replaced by the amount of BGN 400. 10. In § 2 of the additional provisions: (a) c. 1 is finally added "OV', L 16/44 of 23 January 2004.) is used in combination with other substances (e.g. alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, etc.) and in combination with other substances (b) c. 2 is added at the end of 30 April 2004 (OJ L 158/77).) is used in combination with other substances (e.g. alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, etc.) and in combination with other substances (c) c. At the end of this period, the Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and to the Council a report on the implementation of this Regulation.) is used in combination with other (d) c. 4 is added at the end of 3 November 2005 (OJ L 289, 15).) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u64	Are there any speeches? Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u65	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a proposal for an editorial supplement in the version of the Commission's text as reported: In § 33a, i.e. 1 to add a new letter (s) and respectively the previous letters (s) and (b) shall become letters (s) and (s) in (s) respectively and shall be entered in art. 7, para. 1, t. 2 the words seven hundred and twenty-five hundred shall be replaced by twenty-five hundred and my reasons shall be as follows: This proposal is related to the competences of the Ministry of Interior as an authority for administrative control of foreigners and as a responsible office for issuing all residence permits on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria to foreigners, including for employment purposes. After a decision of the authorities of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in the light of the improved economic situation in the country, the reduced unemployment rate, the creation of more jobs and the difficulty of the business in Bulgaria to find suitable workers to occupy the free jobs Bulgarian citizens, citizens of the European Union and the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation, and persons with equal rights existing safeguard measure under art. 7, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility does not meet the current needs of the labor market in Bulgaria. This requires the adoption of measures to introduce measures for a more balanced labour force from third countries that correspond to the modern realities of the labour market, without prejudice to the Bulgarian and European workers in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The proposed increase of the coefficient from 10 to 25 per cent is intended to take an appropriate step in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u66	You're essentially proposing? Do you think it's an editorial proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u67	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u68	Are there any lines to the statement? It was stated that this was a statement. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u69	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honored guests! I take a line, with regret, to object to the proposal of my colleague Mitev, which is true, was discussed between first and second readings, but is essentially, and in view of the debate that took place under the previous § 33, it is evident that there is no consensus reached on it and that there are conflicting opinions from the trade unions. For this reason, I express our considerations for not supporting this proposal, which, again, I say, is essentially and it is early to support it in this legislative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u70	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. That was a line. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Here you are for the duvet, Mr. Mitev. An objection has been made to the substance.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Kirilov, thank you for your reply. In view of your motives, I withdraw the proposal. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u72	It's a coalition!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u73	A decision that changed radically within a minute or two. Are there any other statements? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's true. In principle, the proposal contradicted the rule of law. Are there any other speeches, honourable Members? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal of Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs in the part where it is not supported by the Commission. They voted 125 MPs: for 4, against 52, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal on the Commission's report. They voted 129 MPs: for 94, against 11, abstention 24. The motion is accepted. Moving on to § 34.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u74	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 49. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 50.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u75	Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests. We are voting for the Commission proposal, which supports the text of the importer for § 34, which becomes § 49 and the Commission proposal for § 35, which becomes § 50. They voted 111 MPs: for 85, against 2, abstention 24. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u76	Under § 36, there is a proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36, which shall become § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Road Traffic (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 98, para. 2, p. 5 the words the State-owned enterprise "Center for the provision of services" are replaced by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 140, para. 2, in the sentence first, the words "leaving and stopping from moving' shall be replaced by "stopping from movement and entry, temporary withdrawal, suspension and recovery of registration'; in the sentence second, the words "specialized employees of the State enterprise "Center for the provision of services' shall be replaced by "the specialized authorities of the Ministry of Interior'. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 5, t. 1 the word "supplier' is deleted; (b) the creation of para. 16 - 21: The Ministry of Interior and the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration shall exchange technical data on registered vehicles and on their periodic technical reviews. (17) In cases where a periodic technical examination reveals a dangerous technical malfunction, the Executive Agency shall inform the Ministry of Interior of the temporary withdrawal of the registration of the defective vehicle. (18) Upon receipt of the notification under para. 17, with an indication in the automated information system of the Ministry of Interior, the registration of the defective vehicle is temporarily withdrawn and the owner of the vehicle is notified. (19) After removing the dangerous technical malfunction and after the malfunction of the vehicle under para. 17 has passed a periodic technical review, the Executive Agency of the Motor Vehicle Administration (CVA) shall inform the Ministry of Interior and the use of the vehicle shall be allowed again, and no new procedure for its registration shall be carried out. (20) The terms, procedures and means of exchange of information under para. 16, the data formats and the classifiers used shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 140, para. 2. (21) For the purposes of vehicle registration, an exchange of information may be carried out with the Member States of the European Union, on the legal status of vehicles, and before registration of a vehicle, an inspection may be carried out in the Member State of the European Union in which it was registered. In order to facilitate this exchange, verification may be carried out through the use of an electronic network involving data from national electronic databases. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 151, para. 9 words shall at least be deleted. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The initial maximum amount shall be replaced by the maximum amount. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1: (aa) in the text before t. 1 the words "the values for the verification of the validity of the certificate' shall be replaced by "the control points for the reporting of the infringements committed'; (bb) c. 1 the word "start-up' is replaced by "maximum'; (c) c. 2 the words "to the maximum amount' and the comma after them are deleted; (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The number of control points under para. 1 shall be recovered up to the maximum amount and for new drivers up to two thirds of the maximum number of control points. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) c. 2: (aa) a dash shall be placed at the end of the letter and added until the malfunction has been resolved; (bb) a dash shall be placed at the end of the letter and added for a period of up to one month. (b) c. In the end, 5 letter is added to the Ministry of Interior. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: As regards the case-law of the It is punished with a fine from 500 to 3000 BGN. a driver who, without complying with the order established for that purpose, shall: 1. drive a road vehicle with dimensions, mass or axle load exceeding the standards laid down by the Minister for Regional Development and Public Works; 2. enter after a road sign forbidding the entry of a motor vehicle with dimensions, mass or axle load above the vehicle. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 180, para. 1, t. 3 decimal places after the word "mean' is replaced by "or' and the words "or parked in the stops of vehicles from the regular public passenger transport lines' are deleted. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 181 in the text before t. 1 the word "to' is deleted; 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 183, para. 2, p. 3 the words "incorrectly ahead of" shall be deleted. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) in the text before t. 1 the word "supplier' is deleted; (b) c. 5 is finally added to the Ministry of Interior. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 185 the word "to' is deleted. 14. In the additional provisions: (a) Paragraph 6 shall set up t. 68-70: "68." In the case of an automated information system, it shall be noted in the cases referred to in art. 143, para. 17 that the defective vehicle is stopped by traffic and is not allowed to be used in the road traffic. 69. If the vehicle is not used in the road, the vehicle shall not be allowed to be used in the road. 70. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: (b) Paragraph 6c shall be created: 6c. This law introduces the requirements of Directive 2014/46/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 amending Council Directive 1999/37/EC on vehicle registration documents (OJ L 127, 12.9.2014, p.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u77	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We vote on the wording of § 36, which becomes § 51, in the version of the Commission. They voted 120 MPs: 116, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u78	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 52.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u79	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We shall proceed to the vote on § 37, which shall become § 52, as on the Commission's report. Vote 113 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u80	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38, which shall become § 53: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents (prom., SG...) makes the following amendments: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 59, para. 2, p. 7 the words "one year' shall be replaced by "up to four years'. 2. In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents (Event No 101 of 2016) In § 21 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, the words
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u81	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are voting on the text with the proposed version for § 38, which becomes § 53. They voted 123 MPs: 94, none, abstention 29. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u82	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that § 39 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place such as this. 11 in § 44.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u83	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are voting for the Commission's proposal § 39 to be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic position as a point of view. 11 in § 44. They voted 111 MPs: 94, none, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u84	The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes that § 40 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as such. 4 in § 45.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u85	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the motion to reject § 40 as it is reflected in its systematic place. They voted 120 MPs: 98, none, abstention 22. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u86	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 41, which shall become § 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The legal proceedings under the repealed paras began and did not end until the entry into force of this law. Art. 3 and 4 46a of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria are dealt with in the current order. A proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u87	No, it's for a new § 41. Let's vote first § 41. Are there any statements under § 41, honourable Members? I can't see. We are voting § 41, which becomes § 54 in the version of the Commission. They voted 126 MPs: 95, none, abstention 31. The motion is accepted. Before we continue, honourable MPs, I would like to announce that representatives of the Thracian Society in Plovdiv are on the balcony. Please welcome them. [[Applause.]] Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u88	Proposal by the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs for the creation of § 41a. The Commission supports the proposal in principle.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u89	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposal to create a new § 41a, supported by the Commission. They voted 118 MPs: 95 against 1, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. Now, please read the proposal to create § 55.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u90	The Commission proposes to establish § 55: ........... 55....................................................................... The procedures for granting decisions and issuing permits for residence and work of third-country nationals under the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria and under the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility shall be completed in the current order.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u91	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting § 55 proposed by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 87, none against, abstention 27. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u92	According to § 42 the proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 42, which shall become § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) Paragraphs 4, 6, 11, 12, 14, § 34, p. 1 point (b) and (c) 2 paragraphs 40, 41 § 51, p. 1, t. 2 (2) Paragraph 44, p. 11 shall enter into force from 1 January 2017. (3) Paragraph 45, p. 4 shall enter into force from 1 August 2017. (4) Paragraph 47, t. 2 et c. 14 (d) § 51, p. 2 concerning sentence one, t. Point 3 (b) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 14 (a) (b) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 68 shall enter into force six months after the promulgation of the
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u93	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We shall proceed to the vote of § 56...................................................................................................... Please vote. Voted 118 MPs: 110, no objection, abstention 8. The proposal has been passed, with which the entire bill has been passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank the working group, all the experts who have worked actively to finalise and refine the texts that we have adopted today. I also thank the Members of the National Assembly who have actively participated in the adoption of these texts. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u95	Dear MPs, let's also congratulate a group of teachers from Plovdiv and the region who are our guests today. They're on the balcony. Strong Plovdiv presence today. [[Applause.]] We continue with the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR EMPLOYING EMPLOYMENT. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u96	Thank you, Madam President! The Council of Ministers, on 19 October 2017, adopted on the first reading of 2 November 2017, submitted a report on amendment and supplement of the Employment Promotion Act No 702-01-31 with an importer of the Council of Ministers on 19 October 2017. The Law on the Promotion of Employment is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Promotion of Employment. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u97	Are there any statements on the name of the Law? I won't. We're going to vote. Please vote on the name of the Law. Vote 98 MPs: 97, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u98	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article For the purposes of the implementation of the State Employment Policy, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Employment Agency shall exchange information on the personal data of natural persons under conditions and in order laid down in the instruction of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. There's no proposal under §2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. There are no proposals under § 3 either. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u99	Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the paragraphs that have been read so far................................................................................................................... Please vote. Vote 96 MPs: 94, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u100	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, together with Annex 1 to art. 74g, para. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u101	Are there any speeches? There's no desire. We proceed to the vote of § 5 and the Annex. Please vote. 110 MPs voted: 106, none, abstention 4. The proposal is adopted by which we also adopted the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Employment Promotion Act. We move on to the next: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR HEALTH AND SAFE CONDITIONS OF TRAVEL. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u102	Before that, Madam President, allow me to make a procedural proposal in the Chamber to allow the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Lazar Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u103	We are voting on the procedural proposal for admission in the hall of Deputy Minister Lazarov. Voted 103 MPs: 100, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite Deputy Minister Lazarov to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u104	The Council of Ministers received a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Health and Safety at Work, No 702-01-30 on 16 October 2017, which was adopted at first reading on 9 November 2017. The Law on Health and Safety at Work is amended and supplemented by the Law on Health and Safety at Work. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall also support the text of the importer for paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u105	Are there any statements on the texts up to § 4? There are no requests. We proceed to vote on the name of the Law, paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4. Vote 97 MPs: 94, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u106	By § 5, the Commission shall support the text of the importer. Paragraph 6 is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u107	Are there any statements under paragraphs 5 and 6? There's no demand. Please vote. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u108	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u109	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the name of the division and § 7 proposed by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u110	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 8 and shall propose the following wording: ................................................................................... Within one year of the entry into force of this law, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall establish the standards under art. 25a, para. 4............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u111	Honourable Members, are there any speeches on the last paragraph of this Bill? I won't. We are voting § 8 in the version of the Commission. 99 MPs voted: 96, none, abstention 3. The proposal is adopted, with which the last paragraph of this Law is adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u112	The next item on the agenda is: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAW AND COMPLIANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY PROTECTION LAW. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u113	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, No 702-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 October 2017. At its meeting held on 16 November 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, No 702-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 October 2017. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Economy: Mrs. Silvana Lyubenova Director of the Directorate, Technical Harmonization and Consumer Policy.The Commission for Protection of Competition: Mrs. Nadia Mincheva Director of the Directorate of Law and Competition Policy and Mr. Teodor Georgiev Chief Legal Consult at the Directorate. The bill was presented by Mrs. Lyubenova, who pointed out that it introduced the requirements of Directive 2014/104/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on certain rules for settlement of claims for damages for distortions of competition. The bill provides for measures to address the main difficulties in the effective exercise of the right to compensation for damage caused by antitrust violations and lays down provisions on the transfer of the mark-up, the time limits for exercising the right of protection against the injured persons, and the assumption that the cartel is causing damage. It is proposed that the Commission's decisions on the protection of competition entered into force be binding on the civil court on the fact of the infringement and the establishment of the violator, as well as on the establishment of rules facilitating the access of injured persons to evidence, including those collected in the proceedings before the Commission on Protection of Competition. It pointed out that provisions on joint liability for harm-makers, rules facilitating access of injured persons to the necessary evidence, as well as rules determining the amount of property penalties and fines for preventing the collection of evidence are laid down. In order to apply the rules introduced by the directive in a non-controversial way, the existing legal definitions in the Additional provisions of the Law are also supplemented. Ms. Lyubenova noted that the provisions of the Directive should have been introduced into the Bulgarian legislation by 27 December 2016 and as a result of the failure of the obligation to transpose the Directive, the European Commission initiated a procedure for infringement of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. People's representative Todor Bajchev pointed out that from the BSP for Bulgaria he will support the Bill and added that some of the provisions will be proposed between the readings. As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 9 votes for the competition law No 702-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 October 2017, proposed to the National Assembly to support a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Protection of Competition, No 702-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 October 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u114	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds - Who will present the Report? I do not see in this Chamber the President of Commission Vigenin. Is there a Vice-President of the Commission? Member of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds? Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u115	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, No 702-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 October 2017. At its regular meeting held on 15 November 2017, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, No 702-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Mrs. Silvana Lyubenova Director of the Directorate, Technical Harmonization and Consumer Policy at the Ministry of Economy. I. This Bill is aimed at the harmonisation of the Bulgarian legislation with the requirements of Directive 2014/104/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on certain rules for settlement of claims for damages under national law for infringements of the provisions of the laws of the Member States and of the European Union in the field of competition. The aim is to achieve an effective exercise of the right to compensation for damages caused as a result of violations of national antitrust rules and of art. 101 and 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). II. The amendments proposed in the Bill provide for the right to all natural and legal persons to claim compensation for damage suffered by infringements of antitrust rules, insofar as both competing companies and end-users, counterparties and others may be found among the affected circle of persons. At the same time, the Bill includes provisions on the amount of possible compensation and the transfer of the mark-up in the supply chain. In order to provide sufficient time for victims to submit a claim for compensation, rules on the application of limitation periods shall be proposed. In this regard, the Bill also introduces the rebuttal assumption that the cartel is causing damage. In this way, on the one hand, it should be easier to enable injured persons to prove their claims for compensation and, on the other hand, to ensure the right of offenders to defend their position. III. In order to address the difficulties in proving antitrust infringements, the bill proposes binding force for the civil court to the Commission's decisions on the protection of competition in force in respect of the infringement and of the infringement found, as well as in cases of a Commission decision which is not contested or where the action against it has been withdrawn. In addition, the Bill shall settle the issue of liability where the infringement has been committed by two or more undertakings. In such cases, persons should be jointly liable for the damage caused. This bill also provides for the introduction of rules to facilitate access by the persons concerned to the necessary evidence in order to justify their claims. At the same time, the civil court will be able to impose fines and property penalties on natural or legal persons when they fail to comply with an order of the court to provide evidence or have destroyed them. The proposed Bill will amend the Additional provisions of the Law on Protection of Competition by adding new legal definitions in order to achieve uniform and non-controversial application of the rules of Directive 2014/104/EU. As a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed by 7 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on Protection of Competition, No 702-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 October 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u116	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. There is no report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, No 702-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 October 2017. Please, voting mode. They voted 92 MPs: 92, with no objection and no abstention. The proposal is adopted, with which the bill of first vote. Honourable Members, this was the eighth item on the agenda. I'm calling a half-hour break, and then we'll proceed to work on point nine. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u117	Honourable Members, we begin by examining: LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR PEOPLE'S CHINALS. We are about to listen to the Report of the Committee on Culture and Media "A First Voting Report on a Draft Law amending the Law on People's Chitalishtes, No 702-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 October 2017. The report will be presented by Mrs. Staneva-Milkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on People's Chitalishtes, No 702-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 October 2017. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 16 November 2017, the Law amending the Law on People's Chitalishtes, No 702-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 October 2017. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Culture: Mrs. Amelia Geseva - Deputy Minister, Mrs. Vesela Sterevna The bill on behalf of the importer was presented by Mrs Amelia Gesheva. The Law on People's Chitalishtes provides for the establishment, structure, management, activity, property, financing, maintenance and termination of the People's Chitalishtes. The purpose of the proposed amendments is the establishment of a legal power to issue a legislative act setting out the order for entry in the public register of Chitalishtes and Chitalishte associations under art. 10, para. 1 of the Law on People's Chitalishtes. The issuance of a regulation by the Minister of Culture will allow the regulation on the registration of Chitalishtes and Chitalishte Associations to be brought into line and the requirements for Chitalishtes and Chitalishte Associations will be as relieved as possible in view of the possibilities for the professional collection of information from public registers. The bill is accompanied by a partial preliminary impact assessment containing information on the expected impact and the results of its adoption. People's representative Emilia Milkova made a proposal for editing and correction of the bill, which was approved by the Ministry of Culture. Following a vote, the MPs of the Culture and Media Committee unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the Law on People's Chitalishtes, No 702-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 October 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Milkova. This was the report of the Committee on Culture and Media. There are no other reports on the bill. I'm opening the debate. Are there any MPs who want to make speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This measure in practice aims at legal regulation of the issuance of a regulation that introduces order and order in the registration of Chitalishtes and Chitalishtes in the Register of People's Chitalishtes. BSP will support the proposal, although we are aware that it does not solve the problems of the community community centers in any way, but is purely and simply an administrative measure that will actually reduce the administrative burden of the people's community centers. When we talk about the People's Chitalishtes Register, then we already ask ourselves which Chitalishtes have the right to be registered? With the current legal framework, the Chitalishtes are registered under the Non-Profit Legal Entities Act, but there are no basic criteria for this registration. There is no criterion, e.g. for own material base, there is no criterion for the presence of a book fund. It is so far that at one address of a private home, three Chitalishtes can be registered. This is actually the easiest way to acquire, to take a municipal building when you register as a community community center. The paradox in Bulgaria is that the meeting between the person and the book is supposed to take place in the Chitalishte, and it turns out that we have registered Chitalishtes where there is nowhere and nothing to read. That leads to another question. It relates to the obligation for us to find a way to improve the funding and improvement of the book fund of the Chitalishtes, because the book fund is primarily from the time of an era that most of you deny. There are international standards like this. The European countries allocate about 3 BGN. to a man a year for books. In Bulgaria, such statistics are not made, but the last time the statistics were made, it was found that the Bulgarian state separates between 2 and 3 pennies per year for books. When we have a similar attitude towards the people's community centers and respectfully to culture, we have no reason to resent the statements of Professor Hristov because we have all witnessed an unprecedented cultural degradation in the last 25 years, which has damaged my generation and unfortunately irreversibly crippled the generation of my children. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u121	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other comments on the bill under consideration? There aren't any people who want to make a statement. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on People's Chitalishtes, No 702-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 October 2017. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. With this, the Law amending the Law on People's Chitalishtes was adopted in the first vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF LAW FOR CHANGE OF LAW FOR PUBLIC BIBLES. He was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 9 October 2017, with No 702-01-27. Report on the first vote of the Committee on Culture and Media. Come again, Mrs. Milkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending the Public Libraries Act, No 702-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 October 2017. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 16 November 2017, the Law amending the Public Libraries Act was reviewed, No 702-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 October 2017. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Culture: Amelia Gesheva Deputy Minister, Vesela Shtereva Parliamentary Secretary, Tanya Tsvetanova Director of Legal Service and Public Procurement Directorate. The bill on behalf of the importer was presented by Mrs Amelia Gesheva. The Public Libraries Act regulates the establishment, types, functions, management and financing of the public libraries, which are: The National Library. St. Cyril and Methodius," regional, municipal and community libraries. The purpose of the proposed amendments is the establishment of a legal power to issue a legislative act setting out the order to enter the Public Register of Public Libraries. A regulation of the Minister of Culture provides for the procedure to be laid down for their entry. A partial preliminary impact assessment has been carried out which gives information on the expected impact and the results of the adoption of the Bill. Conditions shall be provided for the acceptance of documents and applications for entry and for changes in the register and by electronic means. People's representatives Krasimir Velchev, Stanislav Stanilov, Chavdar Velinov and Lachezar Ivanov took part in the discussion, expressing support for the bill. People's representative Emilia Milkova made a proposal for editing and correction, which was approved by the Ministry of Culture. Following a vote, MPs from the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Law amending the Law on Public Libraries, No 702-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 October 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Milkova. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take account of the bill and the report heard? I don't see any requests for speeches. We're closing the debate. We move on to the first vote of the Draft Law amending the Law on Public Libraries, No 702-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 October 2017. Please vote. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The bill was passed at first reading. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT AND THE STATUTE OF THE EUROPEAN PUBLIC LAW ORGANIZATION. Importer is the Council of Ministers. With the report on the first vote of the Committee on Legal Affairs, we will be briefed by Mr. Danail Kirilov. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u124	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! {\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} for the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the Establishment and Statute of the Organisation for European Public Law, No 702-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 October 2017. At its meeting held on 16 November 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the Establishment and Statute of the Organisation for European Public Law, No 702-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 October 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, Deputy Minister of Justice. Mr. Stoyanov presented the draft by pointing out that the Organisation for European Public Law is an international organisation set up at the initiative of the Hellenic Republic in 2007, in which a number of Member States of the European Union, representatives of the European Commission and the Council of Europe, Greek state institutions and a number of European universities are members. He noted that the Agreement on the Establishment and Statute of the Organisation for European Public Law (hereinafter referred to as the Organisation) was signed by the Bulgarian side on 19 December 2016 by the Minister of Justice after approval by the Council of Ministers and a mandate for negotiation. Mr. Stoyanov stressed that the main objective of the organization is the creation and dissemination of knowledge in the field of public law, including in national, comparative and European public law, as well as the promotion of European values. To achieve its objectives, the Organisation provides for the organisation and implementation of support for scientific, research, educational, institutional-building activities, as well as support for democratic institutions in Europe and the world. The central management of the organization is in the city. Athens (Greece), providing, if necessary, for the opening of offices and subsidiaries in other places or countries. The Statute provides that each Party shall appoint its representative as a member of the General Assembly of the Organisation with the right to vote, with the exception of those who do not provide the necessary support under the Agreement. The funding of the Organization is planned to be made through donations, voluntary contributions, fees for courses, seminars, trainings and others. An opportunity shall be created for the termination of accession to the Agreement and withdrawal of membership in the General Assembly of the Organisation by means of an official notification to the depositary. Mr. Stoyanov stressed that the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Organization will contribute to the preparation of our country for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the area of justice and will create the foundations for future cooperation in priority areas such as judicial reform, e-Justice and legal education. As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 19 votes for the European Public Law Organization, No 702-02-12, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 25 October 2017...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u125	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. A report of the Committee on Foreign Policy on the Bill has been prepared. Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova, to brief us on its contents.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u126	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Constitutional Agreement and Statute of the Organisation for European Public Law, No 702-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 October 2017. At a regular meeting held on 22 November 2017, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. The reasons under the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Justice Evgeni Stoyanov as follows: The Organisation for European Public Law (EPP) was established in 2007 in Athens. It currently includes 16 countries, including Member States of the European Union, such as Italy, France, Hungary, Estonia, Portugal, Romania, Greece and Cyprus. The main objective of the Organisation for European Public Law is the creation and dissemination of knowledge in the field of public law, including national, European public law, human rights law, and the promotion of European values through public law around the world. In order to achieve the objectives, the Organisation for European Public Law shall organise and support educational, training, scientific activities related to institutional and technical cooperation in the area concerned. In this context, the Organisation for European Public Law has also established a number of educational bodies and programmes, including the School of European Law and Governance, the Academy of European Public Law, the Academy of Transparency and Human Rights and the Institute for Justice and Growth. After approval by the Council of Ministers and a mandate for negotiation on 19 December 2016, the Minister of Justice signed by the Bulgarian Party the Agreement establishing and the Statute of the Organisation for European Public Law, subject to subsequent ratification. The role of depositary under this Agreement shall be exercised by the Government of the Hellenic Republic. The accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Organisation for European Public Law does not impose any financial obligations. The Parties to this Agreement shall not be liable for the debts, responsibilities or obligations of the Organisation. During the discussion the Members of the National Assembly stressed that the reasons presented to the bill were not sufficiently justified. A recommendation was made for further justification in the submission of subsequent ratification laws. On the basis of the 15-vote vote held in the House of the National Assembly, without abstention and abstention, the Committee on Foreign Policy shall propose to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 2, 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt at first reading the draft Law on ratification of the Agreement establishing and Statute of the Organisation for European Public Law, submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. A report has also been submitted by the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. He will introduce us to Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! {\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} on a bill for ratification of the Constitutional Agreement and Statute of the Organisation for European Public Law, No 702-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 October 2017 At its regular meeting held on 1 November 2017, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds (KEWKEF) examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on the Establishment and Statute of the Organisation for European Public Law, No 702-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 October 2017. The bill was presented by Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov. The main objectives of the Organisation for European Public Law (EPP) are the creation and dissemination of knowledge in the field of public law and governance, including international, national and European public law, human rights, e-Justice and judicial reform. In order to achieve its objectives, the organisation shall support education, training and research and shall carry out activities related to institutional and technical cooperation in the field concerned. In this context, the Organisation for European Public Law has established a number of educational bodies and programmes, including the School of European Law and Governance, the Academy of European Public Law, the Academy of Transparency and Human Rights and the Institute for Justice and Growth. The participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Organisation for European Public Law will contribute significantly to the preparation of our country for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the field of justice and will create the foundations for future cooperation in priority areas such as judicial reform, e-Justice and legal education. It should be taken into account in accordance with § 1a, t. 3 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Legislative Acts, Chapters 2 and 3 of that Law shall not apply to the bills for ratification and denounce of international treaties. In this context, it is not necessary to carry out an impact assessment, to conduct public consultations and to prepare a reference for compliance with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights of the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement establishing and the Statute of the Organisation for European Public Law. In the subsequent discussion of a question by Mr. Christian Vigenin, Chairman of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, whether ratification implies in the future payment of membership imports into the organization or means to maintain the headquarters in Athens, Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov stressed that ratification does not create any financial commitments for the Republic of Bulgaria. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, with 6 votes, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the ratification of the Agreement on the Establishment and Statute of the Organisation for European Public Law, No 702-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 October 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. No other reports have been submitted. I open the debates on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement establishing and the Statute of the Organisation for European Public Law. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to speak on the subject at issue? I don't see any requests for speeches. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote the Law on the ratification of the Agreement establishing and the Statute of the Organisation for European Public Law. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 25 October 2017. Please, voting mode. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The bill was passed at first reading. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u130	Mr. President, honourable Members, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and in view of the lack of debate on this ratification law, I propose that we proceed to a second reading of the Law on ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u131	Thank you. We are going to vote on the procedural proposal to examine the second reading of the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement establishing and the Statute of the Organisation for European Public Law. Please, voting mode. Vote 101 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please, Mr. Kirilov, introduce us to the second reading report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to you a report for the second reading of: THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement establishing and the Statute of the Organisation for European Public Law A single member. Ratification of the Constitution and Statute of the Organisation for European Public Law, signed by the Bulgarian side on 19 December 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u133	Are there any Members of Parliament willing to speak on the bill under consideration? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The bill has also been passed in a second vote. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, we move on to the next Bill. 12 on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR SAFE USE OF NUCLEAR ENERGY. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The bill will be presented by a report from the Energy Commission. Mr. Dobrev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, honourable Members: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy, No 702-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 November 2017. At its regular meeting held on 16 November 2017, the Energy Commission discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy, No 702-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 November 2017. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Energy: Mrs. Katerina Kostadinova, Head of Nuclear Energy Security and Nuclear Regulatory Agency: Mr. Alexey Aleksiev, Vice-President, Mrs. Julia Dimitrova, Secretary General, Mrs. Diana Doseva, Director of Radiological Protection Directorate, Mrs. Pepa Stoyanova, State Inspector. The reasons for the bill were presented by Mr. Alexei Aleksiev Vice-President of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency. The amendment to the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy is required with a view to bringing it into line with Council Directive 2013/59/Euratom of 5 December 2013. It lays down basic safety standards for protecting against risks arising from exposure to ionizing radiation. In accordance with art. 106 of Directive 2013/59/Euratom, the deadline for implementing its provisions in national law is 6 February 2018. The Directive establishes a graded approach to regulatory control by introducing a notification, registration and licensing regime in planned exposure situations. It also regulates the requirements and criteria for the application of those regimes. Prior to the adoption of Directive 2013/59/Euratom, the directives in force in the field of radiation protection required only notification and application of a licensing regime for activities where the radiation risk to workers and persons of the population cannot be ignored. Under Directive 2013/59/Euratom, all activities related to planned exposure shall be notified. Depending on the risk associated with the relevant activities, regulatory control may only be limited to a notification regime combined with an appropriate frequency of inspections. For activities specified explicitly in art. 28 of Directive 2013/59/Euratom, compulsory licensing arrangements apply. In accordance with art. 27 of Directive 2013/59/EU of the European Union, each Member State may, at its discretion, introduce in national law a registration or licensing regime for activities outside the scope of art. Art. 27, Art. 28 of Directive 2013/59/Euratom. In accordance with art. 26 of Directive 2013/59/Euratom, activities with negligible radiation risk are subject to exemption from regulatory control, i.e. they are not subject to notification, registration or licensing arrangements. In accordance with the provisions of § 4 and § 18 of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy, requirements for exemption from regulatory control shall be introduced, and other cases shall be subject to notification, registration, authorisation and authorisation of activities. In view of these changes, it is available in art. 5 of the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy, the powers of the Chair of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency to be supplemented by the powers to issue, terminate and withdraw registration certificates. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote, the Energy Committee, with 16 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u135	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. No other reports have been received. We have listened to the report of the leading Energy Commission. I am opening the debates on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u136	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to say that BSP will support this Law, which meets European standards, and I can say that we are a little late with it. I will pay serious attention to the new created art. 64a and then under art. 65, para. 1, t. 4 because at the moment there is Regulation No 29 for medical purposes, namely the assessment of medical fitness. This shows which people can work in the radiation environment and which people can work with this equipment. It is imperative that, by adopting this Law, we also review Regulation No 29 so that they are agreed together. I think you are also convinced of this, because it is not only possible for the National Centre of Radiobiology and Radiation Protection to grant access, but must have a register and control which persons work in a radiation environment. Secondly, with the introduction of high-tech equipment, as are cyclotron complexes, as are modern radiations with the latest accelerated electron, we are no longer talking about proton therapy, it is imperative that large hospitals have appointed physicists, and in medical physics, to control this apparatus for both the protection of staff and the protection of the population. Thank you, I think this will be done and we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-23.u137	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. Are there any lines to the statement? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Any other comments on the bill under consideration? There are no MPs willing to speak on the bill. I'm closing the debate. We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy, No 702-01-43, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 2 November 2017. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. With this, the Bill was adopted at first reading. This was the last point before the parliamentary control of our weekly program. I'm introducing you to parliamentary control reports that will be held on tomorrow: - Interior Minister Valentin Radev will answer two questions from the MPs Jayhan Ibryamov and Krum Zarkov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer seven questions from the MPs Georgi Mihaylov s, 3 questions; Georgi Gokov, Anton Kutev, Georgi Tarnovalyski, Georgi Yordanov, Anelia Klisarova, Ilian Timchev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov to a question with a written answer from the MP Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on one question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov of a question by the MPs Georgi Gokov, Violeta Jeleva and Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Education and Science Krassimir Valchev on three questions with written answer from the MPs Milena Damyanova two questions, and Yordan Mladenov; In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will not participate. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will not participate. Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Dobrev reminds me so that we do not miss an important announcement: we are continuing work tomorrow at 9:00 with an extraordinary point to be put to consideration in plenary. I'm adjourned today's session. We will continue at 9:00 on 24 November 2017, Friday, with the emergency point. [[PHONE RINGING]]
