ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Message: On 13 July 2017, by letters from the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria in the National Assembly received a draft Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union from 1 January to 30 June 2018, adopted by Decision No 387 of the Council of Ministers of 2017, and a Report on the implementation of the Plan for Preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018, as at 30 June 2017, in Decision No 383 of the Council of Ministers of 2017. By letters dated the same day, the President of the National Assembly sent the materials to all parliamentary groups and all permanent committees, available to the MPs and the Library of the National Assembly. A Annual Report on the activities of the State Agency was submitted to the National Assembly by letter from the Chairman of the State Agency. By order of the President of the National Assembly in accordance with the provisions of art. 18, para. 1, t. 1 and 4 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly, the report is allocated to the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications within the framework of the parliamentary control assigned to it and carried out by it on the activities of the Security Services. The report was received at the Registry of the National Classified Information Department. "Knyaz Aleksandar I" is located in the Commission to which it is allocated and the Order is made available to the MPs of their service e-mails. There is a letter received from the National Representative Petar Kanev, Chairman of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, to the President of the National Assembly. "Dear Mr. Glauchev, at his regular meeting held on 21 June 2017, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism in implementation of art. 25, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly elected from its composition a permanent subcommittee for monitoring activities in the field of consumer protection and restriction of monopolies. The subcommittee shall consist of five Members of Parliament, one from each Parliamentary Group. The chairman is Daniela Saveklieva, members are Adlen Shevked, Gergana Stefanova, Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova and Rumen Gechev. New questions for the period 7 July 2017 "13 July 2017" including: - from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov, to Nikolay Petrov, Minister of Health, on the validation of the National Health Card. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 21 July 2017; - from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to Rumen Porozhanov, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for the creation of order in land relations. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 21 July 2017. Written answers from: - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Philip Popov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Philip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on two issues from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Lalo Kirilov and Radoslav Stoychev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Stefan Burgeev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Transport and Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Transport and Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. The first question is to Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, who will answer a question from the National Representative Atanas Kostadinov about spending more than 14 million. lv. State resources for the disposal of hazardous waste on private property. You have the floor, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister Goranov, honourable colleagues! My question is about spending more than 14 million. lv. by a decision of the Council of Ministers on the disposal of waste on private property. In essence, 2014-2015 has been ordered by the Regional Administration of Varna, an analysis of the current situation, which is often declared poor. There is a preliminary study that I will wait for your answer and then I will mention it. On 27 November 2015, the district manager asked several leading European companies about prices and conditions and received a proper response from these leading companies, with the indicative price being around 500-600 euros per tonne for these 2600 tonnes, so-called dangerous. And although the situation is urgent and urgent, a year later, the procedure is announced on 6 October, on 8 December a Commission is established and on 29 December, shortly before the New Year's holidays, a contractor is elected in connection with this public procurement, and, notice, four of the five participants were removed without opening their price proposal, only on a technical assessment, and on 31 January with a decision of the governor, one day before being released as governor, sign a contract with this firm. Interestingly, on 30 May, months later, the KPC declared the order illegal, not complying with the Law, but this is an addition. The fine imposed on the governor of the district is 65 thousand. lv. that it unlawfully removed the other companies and signed a contract worth 14 million. The interesting thing is that, at the same time, on 14 March, the site in question was sold to which 14 million were allocated. lv. My question is: how, under these conditions on the 22nd, have you submitted a proposal for a decision of the Council of Ministers to finance this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u3	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u4	Dear Mr. Kostadinov! The facts and circumstances you presented were not the subject of an analysis of the Ministry of Finance as a body coordinating the financial policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. In that sense, I'll take it as information. If you think there is a violation somewhere in the Law, not only as a representative of the National Assembly, but as an ordinary Bulgarian citizen you can refer to the competent institutions. Everything else is fiction. With regard to your question regarding the determination of the amount of funds of 14.4 million for the disposal of hazardous waste trichloride, located at the site of the "Polymer" AD, in bankruptcy, the city of Devnya, Varna district, I provide you with the following information. The problem of disposal of hazardous waste dates back to 2013, when a leak of the facilities in which it is stored has been detected. The trichloride, with a total quantity of 2640 tonnes, is stored in metal tanks at the site of the site of the Polimers. The city of Devnya, which are in very poor technical condition and pose a serious threat to both the security of the population and the pollution of the environment. In the same year, the Director of Regional Inspectorate for Environment and Waters - Varna, according to the Law on Responsibility for the Prevention and Elimination of Environmental Damage, I recall, we are talking about 2013, issued an order to take the necessary action by By letter to RIEW Varna, Mr. Ivan Balabanov, the trade union of the company, stated the inability to comply with this order due to the financial situation of the company. By decision of the Supreme Administrative Court No 1758 of 2012, insolvency proceedings were opened of the city of Devnya. In this regard, on the basis of art. 24, para. 2 of the Law on Responsibility for the Prevention and Elimination of Environmental Damage, the Minister of Environment and Water issued Order No RD 402 of 24 April 2013, determining the Regional Governor of Varna responsible for the implementation of preventive measures. The same year was held a public contract for the preparation of a Technical Specification and Financial Account Project, forming part of a tender documentation for the conduct of a public contract and concluded a contract No 31 of 9 December 2013 with During the past year, an open procedure for selecting a contractor was conducted by Decision No 1 of 31 January 2017 of the district governor of Varna and was appointed contractor of the public procurement The main criterion for the assessment of the contract is the choice of the most profitable offer at an optimal quality price ratio in a complex assessment calculated on the basis of a technical proposal and a proposed price. The selected performer has calculated and offered a single price of BGN 5455. for one tonne of waste, or a total of 14 million. 402,000. lv. With effect from 16 May 2017, a contract is in force between the district governor and the contractor of the contract. Under a contract, funding should be provided up to two months from its closure. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] According to the provision of art. 40, para. 2, the implementation of activities of the executive bodies is financed by the state budget, with the State Budget Act for the year concerned providing funds under the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water and the Council of Ministers, with the specific case concerning the budget of the Council of Ministers. Regarding the ownership of the property where the tanks with the dangerous residue are housed, of 16 June 2006. The owner of the property and of the tanks in question. As of 2 June 2017 the owner of the property became the owner of Plovdiv, while the owner of the tanks with trichloride continues to be the owner of the property. Finally, in accordance with the provisions of the Law and in view of the serious danger of significant difficult environmental damage, Decree No 118 of the Council of Ministers of 2017, which approved the spending of the necessary funds under the budget of the Council of Ministers, respectively the budget of the regional governor of Varna, was adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u5	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. In the extra time you will probably further develop the answer to the question. Is there a line, Mr. Kostadinov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u6	Dear Mr. Goranov, Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will obviously take advantage of your advice both as a citizen and as a MP to come to some truth. I would like to say that it is possible that you have been misled, it is possible that you have not exercised control. There's a third possibility, of course, that I don't want to guess. Not only is the indicative price, average European, for this activity about 500-600 euros, but is earned at 2600 euros or more than 4 times the price for which this waste can be authorised, not only is that this waste by the classifier of the.Dau Chemical is a raw material and not a dangerous substance, i.e. it has a price. In conclusion, I would like to say that the huge difference between 4 and 4.5 million to 14 million for this work that is done, as this is the money that can be done with all the work. Last but not least, if you follow what they have provided to you as information, if you follow the identification number of the land section, of the land property that has been privatized by So there is no possibility, absolutely no possibility, that this is not part of the deal. Huss is buying for 14,5 million this site, 14 million. 400,000. lv. are granted from the state budget. Under the Law on the Prevention of Environmental Damage and Responsibility, it is an absolute obligation to issue an order to the new owner to defuse this waste and not to damage the Bulgarian citizens through the state budget. I'll take the advice you gave me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Would you like to take an attitude? No. Thank you. Minister Goranov will not take advantage of the possibility of a duplicate. Let's thank him for today's participation. The next question is to the Minister of Interior by the National Representative Slavcho Velkov on actions of the Ministry of Interior for doubling the capacity of the Academy of the Ministry of Interior and renovating the infrastructure of its educational units for the country. Here you are, Mr. Velkov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u8	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister of the Interior, honourable Members! My question is related to the actions of the Ministry of Interior to double the capacity of the Ministry Academy and upgrade the infrastructure of its educational units in the country. In connection with the increased public interest and questions of voters, especially from the Multi-Multimate Region, Pazardzhik, where there is an academic structure of the Academy, I would like to say two words about the reasons, as the present Mr. Tsvetanov, respected by me during the election campaign, promised a double increase in the capacity of the Academy of Bachelor's Training Programs for Policemen and full renewal of the centers for initial professional training. In this regard, as I am well aware that this is now your responsibility, please answer the following question: What measures and actions have been taken to increase the number of faculty staff, develop new curriculums, recruit new students, plan construction and other activities and complete, understand it 100%, renovate the infrastructure, hopefully in the five sites of the Academy of the Ministry of Interior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u9	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Velkov! At the beginning of the year 23 curricula and plans were developed, with them is updated the educational content of the changes that have taken place, which provide adequate training for students and specialists. The education infrastructure that has been built up so far and which is to be built creates conditions for practically oriented training and increasing the effectiveness of the expert activities of our alumni. According to the Project, the construction of a polygon for tactical police activity has started on the basis of a Bulgarian-Swiss program. The polygon consists of five sub-units of banks, offices and so on, on site at the Academy. On another project funded by the Norwegian Financial Mechanism are fully renovated six classrooms with a capacity of 620 seats. The halls are equipped with the most modern training equipment and furniture, which is a condition for conducting training of a larger number of police officers. The project "Encouraging the capacity of expert forensics" funded by the thematic Fund "Secretary" of the Bulgarian-Swiss cooperation programme is being built and expected to be put into the training centre for expert-criminists. Within the framework of the project are built two forensic laboratories, equipped with modern forensic techniques. In addition to the above, the Academy of the Ministry of Interior is an associate partner under the Project Centers for increasing the readiness of the population to respond to the floods, within which a training center will be established on the territory of the Academy of the Ministry of Interior. Between 2012 and 2016 the buildings of two dormitories on the territory of the Academy of the Ministry of Interior were renovated and in 2018 the main renovation of another block of dorms will start, with which the capacity for accommodation of students, students and interns will increase to 800 people. In addition, we have provided funding for a comprehensive renovation of the Academy building. As for our training and vocational training centres, you know them in Pazardzhik, two in Varna and Kazanlak, the four in the cities I mentioned in 2017 are planned to train 1,600 interns who have won competitions for the appointment of junior executive posts in the Ministry of Interior. For the renewal of the infrastructure of the centers are indicated for implementation of the following activities, I will mention the main: renovation of two bedroom blocks with 152 beds, weapons warehouse and sports hall at the Centre for Specialization and Professional Training in Kazanlak; construction of a new gas network for heating installation of the buildings for repair of the two dormitories in Pazardzhik. The largest center; repair of the roofs of the school building in the cinema hall, replacement of dograms, repair of the boilers of the steam plant, repair of the sanitary rooms in both centers in Varna. In conclusion: in the 2017 academic year 2018 32 students will be admitted to the Academy of the Ministry of Interior more than last year, with a new increase in the reception foreseen for the next campaign. In 2017, this is important, 16 lecturers were appointed at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior, of which 9 academic posts and 7 in the centers for specialization and professional training. 16 competition procedures for teaching and academic positions were announced and five competitions for teaching positions at the Centre for Fire Safety and Population Protection in Varna were approved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u11	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Velkov, you have the opportunity to take an attitude towards the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! In our previous brief view here, I told you a saying that the king's crown is heavy, but they do not allow the movers to wear it. It's brought to them by the kings. I said that in the sense that you have taken on an extremely, extremely heavy responsibility associated with the Ministry of Interior. What I hear as an answer, at first glance delights, but I would like to say that all that you give me as an answer, I appreciate it more or less, that it was done by a head of the Academy's teaching department, in style, rather talking about activities that were carried out in 2016. I ask for those promises that Mr. Tsvetanov made for a double increase in the capacity of the Academy of Bachelor's Training Programs for Policemen. In order not to reveal secrets, you are now teaching a little over 100 people here at the Academy of Bachelor's Programs. You say that in 2017 they will be increased by 32 more. This is not a double increase, we should be talking 140, 150. With regard to forensic laboratories, on joint programs, on the capacity of Bulgarian-Swiss, renovation of the building of the Academy of the Ministry of Interior all this is true, but these are activities that are planned in a previous period, some of them will be carried out now, and Mr. Tsvetanov promised full renewal of the centers for initial professional training. You say sanitization of the building? You currently have five bodies here in Sofia, of which two are effectively used. How will you fully update them? I mean, when promises are made, they have to be fulfilled. We will be happy if they enter your management program, we will very closely monitor and ask you more questions, as something else has been promised there. Police officers to carry out urgent investigative actions. All these police officers must go through the relevant training structures. So, I am pleased with the answer you are giving, but I am not satisfied with the way it is promised and not implemented. I hardly doubt that this could enter into a management program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u13	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Mr. Minister, will you give me your additional answer? Here you are, you have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Velkov, thank you for your commitment. That's right: we promise, but for the whole period, though. You want to do it now. I need to inform you about more things I can think of that will probably help you decide if we're doing well there. There's a special advisor assigned to me. That's what he does. His task is to make the Academy of the Interior really increase its capacity double, increase the training of these two thousand investigative police officers, become six thousand, which is very important, I will not convince you of this. The prosecution has also shown a desire to give us their professors-procurators to help us in this particular activity, so we are focused on this, but I will not explain to you how slow things are going in the academic field, especially there. For the sanitization and other things, we'll make them faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u15	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Interior is asked by the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov. It concerns the measures taken by the Ministry of Interior to reduce traffic accidents. Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In recent years, traffic on main road E79 from Mezdra to Botevgrad has increased significantly. This time it connects all of Northwestern Bulgaria with the capital and Hemus Motorway and provides access to the jobs of many people. The specifics of the terrain, load and traffic of heavy goods vehicles restrict the possibility of normal movement. This leads to the nervousness of drivers and the taking of risky aheads in the few areas where this is possible. As a result, there has been a serious increase in the number of traffic accidents. According to DMV data, 28 road-related accidents ended with three killed and 13 injured in the area of Mezdra Municipality have become 28 road-related accidents. Most of the traffic accidents are on the road Mezdra Botevgrad, especially in the sections from Mezdra to the village of Lyutti dol and the intersection at the village of Riberkovo, as well as the descent to the village of Novacene. The main causes of the incidents are inadequate speed, alcohol use, non-compliance with distance between vehicles, improper withdrawal of advantage. Dear Mr. Radev, it is obvious that the overall solution to the problem requires the construction of the four-track road along the Mezdra route - Botevgrad, which is also claimed as a priority of the current government. However, the implementation of this infrastructure project requires time, at least within the framework of the management mandate. Until then, urgent measures are needed to reduce accidents and casualties along this dangerous path. In this regard, it is also my question: what measures does the Ministry of Interior take to prevent and reduce road accidents along the Mezdra route, Botevgrad? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u17	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. Minister Radev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, dear Mr. Bogdanov! You put your finger in the wound. It's a very heavy stretch. I'll report to you what we can do, the Ministry of Interior. After the entry into service of the border crossing, the main road E79 was loaded not only with cars but also increased the traffic of freight vehicles. The road section from Mezdra to Botevgrad is characterized by narrow sections, sharp slopes that make the road risky, especially in the days and hours with intense traffic in both directions. On the part of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Vratsa and Sofia, measures are being taken to control and assist the movement, with particular attention being paid to the vulnerable sections, they are known to us. At the same time, the lack of suitable and safe control areas on the precinct does not allow a permanent police presence of the specific points, but rather a periodic bypass of the route is carried out. You must know the terrain very well, it's so complicated in that direction. It is important to note that the control in this particular area, by stopping motor vehicles, would be more difficult than it would have helped the movement if it were allowed by the control authorities. In this regard, mobile systems installed in police cars are used to control speed without stopping drivers. The actions to stop motor vehicles shall only be taken in the event of obvious infringements creating the prerequisites for an accident. The current state of infrastructure in the section cannot take over the busy traffic that was mentioned through the Danube Bridge, which creates difficulties in the movement and prerequisites for road accidents. In view of the partial unloading of the movement, the freight traffic on E79 at the village of Riberkovo deviates on the road II-16 through the town of Svoge to the city of Sofia, which in turn leads to a complete clearance of the trucks in the section of which you are talking about from the village of Riberkovo to the town of Botevgrad. That can and that makes the Ministry of Interior. Another ministry is responsible for road infrastructure. Of course, I will refer to my colleague and he will assist, if possible, but you yourself said and stressed that the solution is the construction of the new four-band road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u19	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u20	Dear Minister, undoubtedly some of the measures that the Ministry has identified have an effect, but I think they are not enough and there are more opportunities that can be used in this direction. Almost everyday is.. can also say the fellow MPs who travel on this dangerous path, that at least two trips we encounter a catastrophe and it usually severe catastrophes, which either cripple or lead to innocent victims. After all, the role of the Ministry of Interior is to create such conditions to normalise traffic, and you, as you said, divert heavy machinery through the village of Riberkovo and from this road that we comment on at the moment, but I think there are measures, such as, say, horizontal relief markings, video surveillance cameras, and cars, police patrols can be placed in certain places that can also provide an opportunity to reduce these accidents. I hope that what you are saying and my signal and my appeal to you will lead to an increase in measures to prevent accidents along this path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. A hole? No. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva on the normal functioning of a single European emergency number 112. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Halacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My question is related to the operation of a single emergency number for phone 112. The single number ensures a rapid response in crisis situations such as disasters, accidents and the possibility of terrorist attacks and attacks. It was established by a decision of the European Commission since 1991 replaced by a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe. Since 2008 there has been full coverage in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria in conjunction with the national numbers.. 150, 160, 166, and since 2010 all emergency calls are transferred to 112. Or, in short, anyone in trouble can call 112. The service is 24/7 and free, but unfortunately since 2015 it has been quite unavailable. There is no guarantee if there is a breakdown in it for people's lives and health in a risky situation. Even our national security is under threat in crisis situations! There are numerous signals for problems in a system, for irregularities in the maintenance of the software, for irregularities in the outdated technique and working with it, and that the system operates on emergency mode. Facts cause anxiety in society, so I ask my question.... for what reasons has the software system not been updated for two years? What measures will the Ministry take to address the problems and within what deadlines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u23	Thank you, dear Mrs. Halacheva. Minister Radev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u24	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Dear MPs, Mrs. Halacheva, I will specifically answer you for the software, otherwise this topic is quite extensive and exciting many people, but specific. The version of the software application of signal service to the Single European Emergency Number 112, its number is M4.01. This software has been updated since 2006 and has been updated in 2010. This version will be supported by the manufacturer by 2017. The reasons why the software has not been updated is that the new version was not available at the date of expiry of the last post-warranty maintenance contract of the National System 112 To date the latest version of the M4.16 software was already, the previous was M4.01, the National System 112 has hardware that meets the requirements of the old version M4.01, but not the new version M4.16. With the use of the new version, it is necessary that the hardware, server and final operating installation meet the technical requirements for the new version M4.16 specified by the manufacturer. To update the version, it is necessary to replace the available hardware responsible for hardware parameters. Urgent measures are currently being taken to enable, as soon as possible, the performance of the 112 National System fully operational and now, namely to ensure technical support of the system, to purchase new hardware and to put the new version of the software into service. This in short, if I could explain it well for a little while, the saga with these versions. You must know, Mrs. Halacheva, there is a public procurement, is currently suspended due to technical violations made in it, but the system works, including when a manual regime is required, so that citizens do not suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u25	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Halacheva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u26	I raise the question because it is extremely important for the entire population in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. It became clear that the government wasn't paying support to the system. The phone has been left without post-warranty control since 2015. According to experts, in 2015, the problem could have been solved by 3 million. lv. We are currently expecting a 13 million-dollar contract. I don't understand, what would be the expected effect of 13 million that would be put into the system? Is there an option for a new 50 million-dollar system that was mentioned in the media? And one more thing about personnel resources. The timely help of employees often turns out to be crucial to human life. On April 27th of this year, the Ministry of Interior's website has announced vacant positions. Is the personnel deficit complete so far, and is there one in Phone 112's system? The main remuneration of the operators is currently 600 BGN and the duties of the job description and the expectations of the employees are enormous. So I'd like to ask, do you foresee an increase in wages? Are you planning to improve their language qualification, yet we are talking about a single European emergency number? Would you guarantee the Bulgarian population that Phone 112 will be available 24 hours a day, as is its mission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Halacheva. Minister Radev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, Mrs. Halacheva, is an extremely important 112 phone, and I stressed it and you said it, but several governments have not done what is necessary. I've explained the technical reasons, and I kind of agree with them, and I've met with the head of the 112 unit several times. By the way, he was appointed at the end of 2016 and is not very familiar with the story, but what I have reported to you is the truth. There have been such problems there is a Bulgarian company that is intermediate. I don't want to go into details because there's probably going to be a new contest or a direct negotiation with them so I don't activate them. Things are made so that someone takes a very large amount of support money in millions of levs is involved. And what you're telling me is that five million and thirteen million I stopped it for a reason when I saw that it was thirteen million. Again, I will not go into details, but I am informing you that this is one of the reasons why this public procurement is currently being stopped. There is really one, or at least it was discussed in the Ministry of Interior about changing the platform, the base. I don't want it to be some kind of Oracle. Maybe I shouldn't go in such terms and not do advertising. Maybe I shouldn't do something else. And that's what they do in Europe, but that's a lot of money. And we now have the assurance that this can be done with not so much money, and that is what we are doing right now, and we are punctuating this public procurement and it will be launched again. About the footage over there. You're absolutely right. Thirteen people, they are a little of the percentage of people are not much, but wages are low, and we require these people to know a language literally. And here you're right. And I'll tell you one more thing. I'm worried myself. Here comes the Presidency and these people how they will talk, how they will discuss, accept and transmit appropriate signals where they need to be addressed to the Red Cross or Health, in foreign languages. It is a big problem and not only there and, of course, in the country and elsewhere. We've looked into this, we'll do what we need to do. Exactly how, we haven't decided yet, but the most important task is to work the system. That's what we're doing right now. The next step will be the footage, because our problem is known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u29	Thank you, dear Minister. We are moving on to a question from the MPs Krasen Krastev and Asya Peeva on information about a meeting held in Budapest of the interior ministers of the countries of the Salzburg Forum. You have the floor, Mr. Krastev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u30	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! At the end of June this year, a ministerial conference of the countries of the Salzburg Forum took place in Budapest. On information from the media at the meeting were discussed issues related to border security and improvement of cooperation in countering illegal migration and terrorism. Dear Minister, please give us a more detailed overview of the topics discussed at the forum, the possibility of finding a solution to the current issues of illegal migration and terrorism regarding the bilateral meetings held by you at the forum, did you meet the necessary support in our partners and on other issues discussed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u31	Thank you, Lord Krastev. Minister Radev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Peeva and Mr. Krastev, on 19 and 20 June this year, as you pointed out, the Ministerial Conference of the Salzburg Forum was held in Budapest, a closing event of the Hungarian Presidency at this forum. The conference was held in two forms "Cleared to the Member States at the forum and the European institutions and agencies, and extended with the group of friends from the Western Balkans and Moldova. In the closed format, I discussed border security, migration and asylum, topics that interest us directly. A review of the migration situation on the Western Balkan route has been carried out and it has been stressed that the situation is stable, but decisive common action must continue. The introduction of the new Entry/Exodus and ETIAS systems, which also require a lot of resources from the Member States for the maintenance of these systems, has been identified as key to improving cooperation. In this context, Bulgaria and Romania focused on the passive access to the system, which we were allowed to do, and the decision on the single calculator that enables countries to contribute to the Union's common security. The other countries reiterated once again the common opinion of the forum that the two countries.. Bulgaria and Romania are fully ready for full Schengen membership. This was a very important confirmation for us, we added Croatia. With regard to the issue of internal security, emphasis was placed on improving the information exchange, full use of all available platforms and cooperation between law enforcement authorities and the members of the forum's security services. A willingness to co-operate in the exchange of data was expressed as well as a search for a proactive regional approach to countering such modern cyber terrorism in recent times. During the extended sessions, the migration situation in the area was examined and a significant improvement was noted and it was also declared that countries continue to monitor closely for signs of new migration pressure or change of routes. The representative of the "Frontex" also took note of the efforts of the countries in the region and declared readiness to continue and support cooperation in countering illegal migration. The Bulgarian contribution was also highlighted. The link between illegal migration and terrorism and extremism was also discussed. The representatives who attended there, of Interpol, of Europol and of Frontex. They praised the work of the countries of the Forum and the Western Balkans, including Bulgaria. As key elements, the prevention of radicalisation at all levels, the exchange of experience and the carrying out of checks to identify all persons entering the territory of a country and the timely exchange of information between competent authorities, both at national and European level, were also highlighted. By the way, the exchange of information is a very relevant issue in the European Union relating to migration. Bulgaria has the necessary support among our partners on the important issues for us and it was declared in the framework of the bilateral meetings, except at the common forum I mentioned. Bilateral meetings. One of them was with Mr. Sandor Pinter, Minister of Interior of Hungary, who once again expressed unconditional support for our country for Bulgaria's Schengen accession. In addition, a high assessment of the existing bilateral cooperation was given. The second meeting was with Mr. Robert Marin, Romanian Secretary of State, who also praised bilateral co-operation in all directions and expressed Romania's readiness to continue to support Bulgaria in dealing with migration pressure through active participation in the operations of You know we have representatives of them at my house. The next meeting was with Michael Spindeleger, Director General of the International Centre for Migration Policy Development, who confirmed his readiness to support the Bulgarian country in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u33	Thank you, dear Minister. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Peeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response. Were decisions discussed at the forum to counter the migration of illegal migrants and to combat terrorism through Bulgaria's accession to the Schengen countries? Have we met support from the partners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u35	Thank you, dear Mrs. Peeva. Here's your coat, Minister Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, the topics were discussed. In the short time I tried to declaratively tell what happened there, including bilateral meetings. Almost all issues, including traffic, and particular attention was paid, and I insisted that everyone should hear it, like at other forums, but here especially because Bulgaria is at potential risk. This was very important, as you know we are receiving funds, jointly.. 160 million. Euros, and everyone's watching us. We constantly declare that we have dealt with the problem, we have built the engineering facility, the pressure on our border has decreased and the question remains open: what are we helping you so much for? After all, that's not a small amount of money. There I had to say it again, but I was under the impression that everyone was very familiar. I thank Romanian colleagues who have supported us all the time and explained that what I said there is true because they are present here. Not just them, but they especially with the "Frontex" with the colleagues we were talking about. And it was a very important question, of course, about traffic through our country. This worried some other countries, which, however, were not at the forum, fortunately, and less pressured us, for example Germany. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u37	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov and the National Representative Krum Zarkov regarding traffic jams around the border crossings.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister, you know that around the crossings of the Danube Bridge, Ruse, very often are formed, to put it mildly, traffic jams and sometimes it is difficult to move with long mile long queues of trucks, which we have all heard of, but Russians endure every day, especially on Blvd. "Bulgaria" on the roundabout movement in front of the entrance of the border crossing, on Blvd. In its part around the free zone in Ruse and the Industrial Park. Almost daily the roads are overloaded, the pavement is destroyed, and the surrounding spaces are extremely contaminated. There is the feeling, Minister, and I ask you to answer me whether it is true that part of this situation is also due to the organisation of the work of the crossing. If so, please answer us what measures can be taken to ease and speed up the passage of passenger and freight vehicles through the border crossing We are aware that under the Roads Act, the wine is purchased at the border point, but do you think that it would not be appropriate for this to be done in and out after it and/or electronically, which would help extremely much to pass this crossing point? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Minister Radev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear gentlemen Zarkov and Milkov, the situation you are describing at the border point of the Danube Bridge is due to a continuous increase in the number of passing points and this appears to be a lasting trend in recent years. For the first six months of 2017, the border crossing was 914 thousand. 649 persons and 654 thousand. vehicles, which compared to the same period for 2016, which is more important, show an increase of 68% in persons and a little less in vehicles, as several people are riding in a vehicle. The time for crossing passengers and vehicles across the border point of Ruse is directly dependent on the control activities of individual state structures which carry them out and whose technological order is based on specific provisions of European and national law. The organisation of border police work has no bearing on the formation of queues at the point and this has proved very easy. I'll just give you a few examples. First, there is only one stop by border police authorities of both countries at the entrance to the Bulgarian territory and at the exit of the Romanian territory. Secondly, in addition, the maximum efficiency of the time required to carry out the necessary checks on passenger cars includes the checks on passenger travel documents and the physical checks on vehicles, which for each person is 30 to 50 seconds under a minute, and the physical checks on the vehicle about one minute. The inspection of the goods vehicles by the Bulgarian and Romanian border guards is reduced from three to five minutes, depending on the vehicle, which, in addition to the verification of the documents, includes physical examination of the vehicle itself. Next, an additional maximum number of crossing routes is provided in view of the current infrastructure. The work process is continuous, including during the time of absence and overlap of duty shifts. We got this covered, too. Next, there shall be a border check of the route (s) outside the control sites, of the goods vehicles. In case of traffic jams and an intensive schedule, an additional route shall be provided in a timely manner to normalise the situation. That's what we do at all checkpoints. I stress that the duration of inspections on freight vehicles also depends on the control carried out by the authorities of the Customs Agency and by the Romanian office ANAF, which carry out fiscal control. In implementation of a decision at a meeting of the Interdepartmental Border Control Board held on 1 July last year in order to improve the organisation of the movement and increase the crossing capacity of the point, activities have been undertaken by the Customs Agency to carry out repair activities for the infrastructure facilities and facilities of the area. After their implementation it is envisaged that all incoming road vehicles in the Republic of Bulgaria should be carried out in that area. On the subject of the wine stickers, I note to you that the control of their pay is carried out by the officials of the Customs Agency, in view of the provisions of the Roads and the Ministry of Interior Act and have no bearing on changing these texts. We don't have an attitude. Perhaps you should present these ideas to the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u41	Thank you, dear Minister. For a replica, the People's Representative Pencho Milkov. You have the floor, dear Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister Radev, it is obvious from your reply that after our question you have been familiar with the situation at the Border Crossing Point in Ruse and you said in your reply that the passage time is directly related to the type and number of controls being carried out. By virtue of the European law of the regulations and directives in force, as well as of the Schengen Border Code, citizens of the Member States of the European Union should be subject to light border visa control, i.e. not register in the information system. According to the border crossing data, citizens for about a year the control has been complete, meaning all passing persons and vehicles are registered in the information system by making some exceptions for EU citizens who travel with light cars at peak moments, but all Bulgarian citizens who leave the country are registered in the information system. Given what you have said that the passage time and workload is precisely in relation to control measures, several other questions: why are the citizens of the European Union subject to full passport visa control? Why are Bulgarian citizens also subject to complete control when they leave the country, provided that I told you that they should be relieved? Is it the same procedure at the other border crossing points? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Minister Radev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Milkov, I must tell you that I haven't been to this checkpoint yet. I went to the other checkpoints, I'll go to this. [[Relations from the National Representative Pencho Milkov.]] If you want, we can go together. I'm sure what you're saying is true. I cannot understand why you say that European and Bulgarian citizens are being checked and should not have been checked. I'll check that out, too. I doubt that we will show some greater need to check the European and Bulgarian citizens and to give them full control and you used the word, this will be checked. And if that's the reason for the delay, you know, it can't be done any further. I just wanted to add something else you probably don't know. To ease this traffic, especially during the summer regime, we are also trying to launch two other crossings on the land border with Romania. We've got a big problem. You know, we've built the road, we've built the checkpoint. The Romanian side, due to change of governments, political instability or whatever is going on with them, we are constantly in contact, and we cannot let them go. Two checkpoints are such.. should be temporary, especially for tourists who pass and go to our resorts. This, I think, is why I am telling you, you may not have been informed, I hope, will further unload, but there the problem seems to be the trucks. As far as possible, I will also meet my colleague from the Finance Ministry for API and the colleague who will now answer the questions, because the problem is not only the Ministry of Interior, but thank you for the emphasis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u45	Thank you, dear Minister. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Dilyan Dimitrov on the control of the movement of risky goods and goods. You have the floor, dear Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, my question is related to the control of the movement of dangerous goods and goods. In 2015, during the administration of the cabinet Borisov-2 and personally at the request of Prime Minister Borisov, an Interdepartmental Coordination Centre for Countering Smuggling and Control of the Movement of Dangerous Goods and Goods was established. The main objective of this Interdepartmental Coordination Centre was to coordinate the actions of all services and institutions in the country in order to combat quality and effective control of dangerous goods and goods. This thing also has to do with the revenue side of the Republican budget. My specific question to you, Mr. Radev, is as follows: what are the realizations and benefits for the state budget from the work of the Interdepartmental Coordination Centre to counter smuggling and control the movement of risk goods and goods from the beginning of the year until now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Minister Radev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, the Interdepartmental Coordination Centre is its short name, otherwise it is a very long one created, as you said, in April 2015 as part of the measures taken by the government in order to ensure effective protection of internal fiscal interests. Included in the structure of the Directorate General for Organized Crime, in it employees of the Directorate for Organized Crime, of the National Police Department, of the Directorate for Border Police and of the Directorate-General for National Security, of the State Agency for National Security and Customs, of the National Revenue Agency and the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration. Imagine them in a room with monitors, and I went there and I saw them, and all these people, all these services are monitoring the information at the same time. In order to prevent tax evasion and tax fraud, in relation to the movement of goods with high fiscal risk in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Directorate of Staff Control of the National Revenue Agency also has permanent representatives at the Centre who coordinate the actions of mobile teams controlling border fiscal posts and the places for unloading of goods. In the first six months of 2017, 31,451 checks were carried out inside the country. The revenue authorities have imposed preliminary precautionary measures under the Tax Insurance Code of nearly 1000.. The exact number is 952 in this case. For the first half of 2017, only the taxable tax base of goods with high fiscal risk was increased by 587 036 622 BGN. in respect of the same period of 2016 More than half a million. In the course of joint and specialised inspections carried out with the structures of the Ministry of Interior and the competent external control bodies, this has been done together, more than 400 acts of established administrative violations have been drawn up by the employees of the Fiscal Control. Operational cooperation between state institutions and the common approach used to counter tax fraud and tax evasion attempts have a positive impact on the revenue side of the Republican budget continuously. According to the National Revenue Agency, VAT revenue from controlled companies has been increased more than three times. Three times! 70 revisions have been initiated in relation to the control carried out and additional budgetary commitments of nearly 1 million have been established from those completed at the time. lv. It is achieved, which is more important here, a lasting disciplinary effect in terms of the commercial and fiscal behaviour of controlled companies. 10 pre-trial proceedings have been initiated for the infringements detected in the course of the control events to commit a criminal offence under art. 172b of the Criminal Code investigated by the Sofia Directorate of Interior and Regional Structures of the Ministry of Interior. More than 12,000 items have been seized bearing the logo of protected trademarks. In addition to the above, 15 thematic specialised operations and more than 140 events with the structures of the Ministry of Interior and other state control bodies are organized and coordinated by the Interdepartmental Centre during the first six months of this year. In conclusion, the activities of the Interdepartmental Coordination Centre have made a clear contribution to our government's efforts to increase budget revenues by effectively countering and combating the crossing of the smuggling channels and reducing the share of the gray economy - things for which we are particularly watched by our partners from the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u49	Thank you, dear Minister. The line, Mr. Dimitrov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Minister Radev, for the comprehensive answer. What was important to me and my fellow Members is that this Interdepartmental Coordination Centre effectively performs its role as such, since it has a very good collection and a very good fight against the grey economy, i.e. in the revenue section I realized that there are almost half a billion more with additional funds collected and from the other countermeasures. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. A hole? There's no need for a douche. Thank you, Minister Radev, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to the questions to Nikolay Nankov, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, who will answer first a question from the National Representative Stefan Burgeev concerning the state of distress on Republican road II-11, connecting the municipality of Gulyantsi with the municipality of Nikopol. Here you go, Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u52	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I have a question for you, Minister. At meetings in my electoral district, the question was raised about the state of Republican road II-11, linking the municipality of Gulyantsi with the municipality of Nikopol, which people define as dire. For the inhabitants of the villages of Dubovan and Somovit, this is the most painful problem. The road hasn't been paved since 1977. In the village of Somovit the port is dedicated to concession and this is related to the constant transportation of grain in the summer season of heavy goods vehicles, which, passing along the broken road, cause damage to the houses located near the road. Dear Minister, what measures will you take and what time will you take, taking into account the seriousness of the matter and the potential risks and dangers for the population of the two municipalities concerned by the road? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Burgeev. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Burgeev, the section of road II-11 between the village of Gigen and the village of Milkovitsa on the territory of the municipality of Gulyantsi was rehabilitated in the period 2011 - 2012 and is currently in good condition. However, in unsatisfactory condition is the section between the village of Milkovitsa, the municipality of Gulyantsi, and the village of Cherkovitsa, the municipality of Nikopol, about 17.5 km long, which, as you mentioned, was not mainly renovated for 40 years. In view of this, the Road Infrastructure Agency has included for rehabilitation the section of the road with a length of about 10.7 km.. 200 meters less, in a list of projects proposed for financing under the Programme "INTERREG V-A Romania-Bulgaria" 2014-2020.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The project proposal to ensure the necessary funding has been submitted and is currently under assessment by the Joint Secretariat of the Programme. In August of this year, the Secretariat is expected to come up with a decision on the financing of the project, with the indicative value for the construction works being slightly over 3 million. 640 thousand. Euros with VAT. There is a technical project prepared for the site and when providing the necessary funding under the Programme that I mentioned, a procedure will be started to select a contractor for the construction activities and construction supervision. According to the budget resources under the Programme "Current repair and maintenance" of the Agency, the road infrastructure is being taken care of for the securing of the section. From the beginning of the year to the present, repair activities have indeed been carried out at a low value, but these are also the budget options, worth 13 thousand. lv. The means of maintaining and improving the state of the road network are needed. You know, I have answered such questions before. In order to ensure long-term and predictable funding, our government envisages the introduction of a mixed system of electronic bill and tolls, and this system will increase the collection of road toll funds to almost 1 billion. lv. The state is currently collecting and reinvesting only 300 million. lv. Specifically, what are the activities carried out during this year? On road II-11 Milkovitsa, from the beginning of the year we have machine alignment of four thousand square meters of banquets; in May there was a machine patching of 200 square meters. m single holes and laying a layer of solid asphalt concrete in the area of the village of Somovit; in June there was a manual and machine mowing of 48 acres of lawns, for providing I conclude with the fact that the project is a priority for us, which is why it has been submitted for funding under the Programme "InTERREG V-A Romania-Bulgaria." I have hope, not just hope, but preliminary information that will be approved, and a complete rehabilitation of this unrehabilitated, unrehabilitated road will indeed be carried out for more than 40 years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u55	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Burgeev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I note that we are flooding you with problems regarding road infrastructure, especially in Northern Bulgaria, but in your response I have heard that it is in procedure and is at stake as a priority of your programme. However, I am extremely worried about what could happen, because indeed there is a possibility that houses will start falling and come to civil disobedience. People have reached one threshold from which there would be no more tolerance if something happened, and it is very likely. There, things are tragic to apply so illustratively a signature that was sent to me through these people, and a disk of photography material. I understand and appreciate your desire, the many responsibilities and problems in your portfolio, but please, on my behalf and on behalf of these people, do your best to speed up and make a move to make things happen. I'm applying illustrative materials to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Burgeev. Would you like to use the back? Here you are, Minister Nankov, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Burgeev, the fact is that these are really roads that have not been repaired for more than 30 years. Most questions from colleagues from your parliamentary group concern precisely such problematic sections. Civil disobedience, civic dissatisfaction, yes, it's normal, it's understandable, we appreciate the extremely unsatisfactory state of these roads. If you accordingly give impetus as a MP, there may be protests, there may be civil disobedience. But in order to implement a road project, what does it take? Technical readiness to be prioritized in a list of a programme that will be a funding body and to find the financial resource accordingly. All this we have done at the moment, as I mentioned, is one of the priority third-class roads in Northwestern Bulgaria, in particular in the Pleven region, which we will rehabilitate. The work of the Secretariat and the Monitoring Committee between Bulgaria and Romania is joint. When a decision is made, I hope this will happen as early as September, and funding will be provided, we will also assign the very construction of the road. I mentioned, we have technical readiness, we also have a resource under the Programme "INTERREG V-A Bulgaria." We also have the ambition to do so. I'm sure you didn't expect us to rehabilitate the road in two months. The fact is, we've found funding, we've done the project. The path we will do it, rest assured, calm down your constituents, perhaps not all of them are your constituents, but the commitment we make for this time will be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u59	Thank you, Minister Nankov. The next question is again by the MP Stefan Burgeev about the state of Republican road III-305, connecting Pleven and Teteven. You have the floor, dear Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, it's me again and again with a question that is problematic and concerning your portfolio. [[Radio.]] I'm sorry, we almost shouldn't feel uncomfortable that we're bothering you with people's problems and giving pushes or not giving.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u61	Please, Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u62	I'll get to the point. Dear Minister, Road III-305 is part of the Republican Road Network. It passes through two settlements - the village of Krushovitsa and the village of Sadovets, on the territory of Pleven region. The condition of asphalt coating has multiple holes, baboons and bumps. Each year separate sections are patched up, but by cold-roll technology that is suitable for flat terrains and only in small holes. The division across the territory of the village of Sadovets is not a flat terrain that completely depreciates any patching of the specified technology. A separate problem is that the coating is not rained and thus new baboons and bumps are formed. Besides, there's a lot of unmended areas left. The damage to the road lane collects water that drains and further destroys this asphalt coating. After the last rehabilitation, the section through the village of Sadovets remains in the worst condition, with multiple holes and incomplete but unparalleled ones. This makes it difficult to move and creates risks from road accidents. A complete cutting of the old asphalt coating is needed in the most affected areas and a complete re-asphalting of the entire road section, which is hilly relief. Repeat, hilly relief. [[Noise and lines.]] In relation to the above, I ask for your reply to the following: what measures will be taken and within what time limit?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Burgeev. Minister Nankov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u64	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Burgeev, another troubled road in the Pleven region. I can mention four more to you, extremely critical, needy, but I will read the answer that the Road Infrastructure Agency has prepared for me. I'll have a chance in the back to give some more details. The Road Infrastructure Agency is making efforts and taking the necessary actions to ensure the safety and improvement of the third-class road network in the territory of Pleven District, according to the budget resources available, as you have heard from my previous response. In 2017, on the third-class road III-305/road unit "Neftochemical combinat" (with Republican road I-3, Byala Botevgrad) through Krushovitsa "Sadovets" border with Lovech district, with a length of about 25 km on the territory of Pleven district, repair activities were undertaken under the current repair and maintenance value of almost 50 thousand. lv. with VAT. In 2016 the Road Infrastructure Agency carried out an urgent renovation of the pavement due to the collapse of a section at the end of the regulation of the village of Sadovets in the direction of the town of Teteven, which together with the renovation of the banquet is worth almost 60 thousand. lv. More road surface patching activities have been carried out by laying 69 tonnes of non-solid and 40 tonnes of solid asphalt concrete, patching activities with polymerised bitumen emulsion and pressure fraction, machine and hand patching, mowing lawns and cutting shrubs. In response to the problem mentioned by you, that when carrying out the activities of ongoing repairs, there is no valuation that causes the formation of uneven surfaces on the pavement, we inform you that the main technology used in current repair activities is the so-called cold patching through a pedentic.............................................................................................................................................. This is the most suitable and cost-effective method for repairing single damage to the road surface. In this technology, the damaged site is purged and cleaned with a stream of compressed air to remove dust and other dirt. Then inject under pressure the bitumen emulsion, which should well penetrate into all the cavities and cracks and cover the entire hole, no matter small or large in your classification, including the walls. A simultaneous injection of bitumen emulsion and the corresponding amount of stone fraction, which gradually, together with the emulsion, fills the area of the damaged site to the level of the existing pavement. Once the emulsion is stopped, a protective layer of dry fraction shall be applied to the surface of the repaired site. The sealing is carried out by the very movement of cars naturally. The limited budget of the Agency, which I comment on every time from this high tribune, for 2017 does not allow for major repairs on road III-305 in the course of this budget year. After validation of the 2018 budget, the possibilities for inclusion of the site in the Agency's investment programme will be considered. The funds needed to maintain and improve the state of the road network are repeatedly exceeding current funding. It is precisely to secure a larger financial resource that I repeat, perhaps for the twentyth time, of this high tribune, that our government envisages the introduction of a mixed system of electronic tarts for cars and tolls for heavy goods vehicles. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u65	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Burgeev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u66	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The money's not enough and there's not enough, it's clear. And the toll's starting to come out on my forehead. The question is I will apply photos to you, to see if you are satisfied with the work of the Regional Road Agency and the contractor who has been entrusted with this rehabilitation, that even a little money is not done for three leva jobs. Here are the pictures of the visuals. If you are satisfied with this work and you like it, because, one that is an embarrassment as a performance, secondly, with the party from which you are a minister, we have united ourselves to reduce road accidents, with this work abdalism, not only do we not reduce them, we will increase road accidents. Let's put it this way directly. I'll leave you the pictures, they're pretty big, so I don't wanna wave them around in front of the camera right now. My question is: do you like this performance, this healing rate, this rehabilitation? Because it's a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u67	Thank you, Mr. Burgeev. Come in, Minister Nankov. The question is, do you like the job?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u68	I will not allow myself, dear Mr. Chairman, to use such terminology. Whether it's abdal or not, other authorities could comment. Dear Mr. Burgeev, of course I'm not happy about the percentage, as you mentioned, I answer directly to you at the refurbished precinct. You have rightly noticed that really on the basis of the financial opportunities that the Agency has, however, something has been done. About the effect and quality of the repairs carried out. Yeah, you can always ask for a higher quality. But in the course of the current repair, the palatial solution we patch holes, of course, is not the most appropriate. On whose forehead will come the fees you may need to ask those who have appealed the procedure for a year and three months. We will also bring a case, by the way, we have prepared a counterclaim for material damage, as the state loses a million and a half leva every single day from the failure of the Toll system for heavy goods vehicles. Apart from that, we could hardly come up with an asphalt-laying technology that would make the asphalt so that it wouldn't eat. This was the mantra of your former National Council President. The technology currently being used is the most economically efficient on the basis of a reduced and limited budget. The fact is, the road must be rehabilitated. This will take place with the introduction of the TOL fee and its prioritization in the next financial year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u69	Thank you, Minister Nankov. The next question is from the MPs Kristian Vigenin and Nikolay Boshkilov on the construction of the Bulgarian part of the road Strumiani Here you are, dear Mr. Boshkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! To be correct, I will tell you that I asked this question last week to Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Zaharieva, but I did not get a specific answer anyway. He was in an inexplicable future that, you see, something will ever happen on this matter. This sounded to me like a cult replica from a Bulgarian film: Dad will buy me a bike, but another time. What's this about? On 16 June 1999, an Agreement was signed between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia to open two new crossings connecting the municipalities of Simitli and Pechevo, Strumyani and Berovo, which entered into force on 13 September of the same year. Later, in 2004, the Agreement for the opening of a third point was signed to connect the municipalities of Nevelino and Delchevo, approved by the government in June 2005. All three points so far have not been found. Over the years, various efforts have been made in order to implement this Agreement, both words and promises have been much more than cases, and the subject has been raised without effect in every government and every parliament. This can be seen from the corresponding stenograms. The closest to realization was the project "Strumyani "Berovo" with approved funding under the PHARE Programme, but the necessary infrastructure from the Bulgarian country was not built due to the bankruptcy of the successful tender company. However, all facilities, including border crossings, are built on this point from the Macedonian side. In this regard, the question is: does the Bulgarian government intend to prioritise the construction of the Bulgarian part of the road from the village of Mikrevo to the border with the Republic of Macedonia? If yes, what time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Boshkov. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u72	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boshkov! At this stage, there is no project for providing transport access to the border crossings by the Bulgarian side through the Republican road III-1008 Strumians The traffic between the two countries is conducted through three border control points: the border crossings of Güeshevo The road infrastructure serving the three border crossing points shall be maintained in good condition. The initial project for the third-class road III-1008, in which the connection between the town of Strumyani and the border with the Republic of Macedonia will be made with the border with the Republic of Macedonia Following a change in the Roads Act by decision of the Council of Ministers of 2004, the road was reclassified into third class and received number III-1008 and in 2005 the project documentation was updated. The project provides the following: for the section from km 0+000 to km 15+392. In 2006, the project was approved by the Municipality of Strumyani and a partial construction permit was granted for this area; For the section from kilometer 15+392 to km 22+600, reconstruction. The road gauge is 3.50/6 m and the asphalt flooring is almost completely missing and in winter motor vehicles are impossible to move to the village of Razdol; For the section from km 22+600 to km 30+198. The implementation of the project was planned under the PHARE Programme.. Cross-border cooperation with the Republic of Macedonia and due to the delay of the procedure. You know, you did not intentionally mention what the year is, it does not come to the signing of a contract with the selected contractor, during which time the Financial Memorandum expires, that is to say we lose the funding. Through road III-1008 are served extremely remote settlements: the village of Dobri Laki, the village of Gorna Ribnitsa, the village of Sedelets, the village of Tsaparevo, the road is also the only connection with Protected dwellings and Home for elderly people with mental disorders in the village of Razdol. The operating condition of the road is further deteriorated by the movement of heavy goods motor vehicles carrying timber. At this stage, the implementation of ongoing repairs and maintenance activities is not profitable. The necessary actions shall be taken to prepare a technical project on the basis of which an environmental impact assessment report will be prepared, appropriate alienation procedures for the new route will be carried out and construction works will be started. To increase the collection of road funds, as well as to be reinvested in road infrastructure and to increase road safety, the government and in particular our Ministry and the Road Infrastructure Agency are planning the introduction of a mixed system of electronic wine for light and toll car system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u73	Thank you, Minister Nankov. Line, Mr. Boshkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I think my question was very specific: if yes, what deadlines? I didn't hear any deadlines, I didn't hear any specific commitment. I guess once, but not now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u75	Thank you, Mr. Boshkov. The next question is from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov on the readiness of the water supply sector to apply for Operational Programme 2014 - 2020 You have the floor, dear Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u76	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nankov! Operational Programme "Environment 2014 " 2020" provides that it will finance the construction of a water infrastructure only if it is implemented in consolidated areas, which are served by one water operator based on regional pre-investment studies. Until the completion of the approval of the regional pre-stakeholder studies under Axis 1: supposed to the Ministry of Environment and can start the implementation of the major projects sent for review to the European Commission from the previous programming period, as well as projects approved by Jaspers and the projects phased from the previous programming period. For new water projects identified as priority in regional pre-investment studies, beneficiaries can only be water operators and Sofia Municipality. The reform in the water sector for the consolidation of water operators and their services, which should be 28 for our country, started in the previous programming period and should already be over. On February 10, 2016 the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works started the implementation of the Project Supporting the Regional Investment Planning of the Water Sector, funded by the Operational Programme "Environment". The objective is clear.. the preparation of regional pre-investment studies. The deadline for implementation of this project is 52 months, that is, four years and four months if we take stock, the project is completed by 2020. But then the programming period ends. At the same time, the Minister of Environment and Water announced that at the end of this year, the next year, the water operators can apply for projects that are ready. In this regard, my question to you is: what is the readiness of the water service sector to apply for Operational Programme 2014 Are there any regional pre-investment studies ready? At what stage has the water service reform and consolidation of water and water operators reached, and how many of them have been consolidated? How many water operators have a project readiness to apply under the Operational Programme "Environment" when the procedure is announced at the end of 2017? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Minister Nankov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chakarov! The project that you mentioned, as you have exposed the entire situation of use, both phased and early projects are currently being implemented. The model changed, the approach. The beneficiaries will be the water operators based on pre-investment studies. I will also say a few words on the subject in answer to your question. Project "Helping regional investment planning for the water sector" financed by Operational Programme "Environment 2014" - 2020 and launched in February 2016. On 31 March 2016, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works concluded four contracts for the execution of a public contract with subject: The capital is, you know, a different example, so I mentioned that Sofia Municipality will apply for the concession contract with Sofia Water. Smolyan District has prepared a pre-investment pilot study which was developed in the previous programming period for Smolyan District. In the remaining 14: Water and Water, Bulgaria. Burgas; Water and Water Ltd, gr. Varna; Water EOD, gr. Vidin; VIK OOD, gr. Vratsa; VIK EOOD, gr. Dobrich; Water Ltd, gr. Kardzhali; VK OOD, gr. Pernik; Water and Water Ltd., gr. Plovdiv; VIK OOD, gr. Ruse; VIK OOD, gr. Silistra; VIK OOD, gr. Sliven; VIK EOOD, gr. Stara Zagora; VIK EOOD, gr. Shumen &amp; Water Ltd, gr. Yambol, in four separate positions was announced, you know, and the tender procedure. During the period from the signing of the contracts until 22 June 2017, following the Project schedule, the contractors submitted introductory reports to the seven-year progress reports on the implementation of the contracts. The first interim reports to take account of phase I work from the technical assignment and the second interim reports from the reporting under point 1. 2.1 of the Phase II contract of the technical assignment. In the framework of phase 1, the collection and analysis of the existing situation of water supply and sewerage systems in the territory of these 14 water and the need to implement measures to achieve compliance with the relevant national and European legislation in the field of drinking water, the removal and cleaning of waste water has been established. Phase II covers the development of pre-investment studies, application forms for European funding with the relevant applications: technical, environmental, financial and economic reports, and complex projects for investment initiative for agglomerations over 10,000 equivalent residents, with the deadline of autumn 2017, November on the linear timetable currently being respected. He's been catching up on a three-month delay. Operational Programme "Environment" 2014 "2020" financed sites in agglomerations with more than 10 000 equivalents inhabitants, you know, for construction and reconstruction of plumbing, sewerage, water treatment plants, waste water treatment plants, pumping stations and so on in order to achieve compliance with European Union directives in the field of drinking and waste water. The question you have raised concerns the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works reform in the water sector. Our Ministry conducts state policy, the main objective of which is the water sector in a horizon of 10 years to achieve technical, environmental and financial sustainability and compliance with the European Union directives on drinking and waste water, of course, and taking into account the social tolerance of the cost of water services, and, of course, works consistently to implement the activities set out in the reform. The public water supply infrastructure in the country is described, individual contracts are drawn up for the management, maintenance and operation of the water systems and the provision of water supply services in which agreed quality indicators of services and mandatory investments are set out, which the water supply operator must make in the systems. Associations on part of the water reform were established, which, as representatives of the public owners of the water infrastructure, the municipal and state public property during the period 2015. The contracts with the water operators in 27 of 28 administrative districts in the country signed in 2017. For the 28th administrative district of Sofia Municipality, there is an existing concession contract, I mentioned about it. Therefore, the hypothesis of Sofia Municipality is slightly different. Regional general plans for water supply and sewerage with short-term, medium-term and long-term investment programmes were prepared to plan the development of the water supply infrastructure. The consolidation of municipalities in the territory of the area concerned will create a prerequisite for optimising costs at regional level, planning long-term investments and providing opportunities for applying for national and European funding. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works implements an Action Plan for the Strategy for Development and Management of the Water Sector in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. Another five consolidated areas have the opportunity and will receive European funding for the preparation of five investment studies based on these 14, plus the two: Smolyan and Sofia, which I mentioned, so in 21 of 28 administrative areas of Bulgaria will be implemented projects with European funding under the Operational Programme "Environment." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u79	Thank you, Dear Minister Nankov. You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u80	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, unfortunately, the construction of water cycles is late. This is more than obvious. It is obvious from what you have presented that it is working quickly and with a clear vision. However, I do not know if this is enough, given that we all know, and you know very well, especially the people who have had commitments in this area, that for years the so-called Master Plans have been prepared, i.e. the master plans. After that, there were pre-investigative studies, and they are now continuing under a new section of the study report. I hope that there is continuity in the database information accumulated in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the water sector so that we upgrade. It's not just a waste of money. The most important factor, which is pressing us today, is the time factor, because the period of programming for Axis 1: "Waters" of the Operational Programme "Environment" has started 2014, and today we are 2017. It is true that projects from the previous period are working, but this is extremely insufficient. My concerns and concerns are that this time again there will be no so-called recycling of funds from Operational Programme "Environment" for Axis 1: "Waters for Water Infrastructure in other directions, not that there is no need there. You know very well that the need, when there was a presentation of the so-called Master Plans (Master Plans), to say it in Bulgarian, was initially visualized the sum of 7 billion. EUR, today is much higher, so the funds provided for under the EU funds will cover only part of the need to modernise the water infrastructure. This is the imperative of all of us and all of us united with a political consensus, we must make efforts to implement these funds. I wish you a successful job and the more time and forward the realization of these projects starts, the better for our country and for the people, because this will improve the quality and standard of living of the people who live in the respective settlements. Moreover, they will not subsequently be charged with an increase in the price of the so-called water service. I hope all this happens in time. Let's wish each other good luck, but we have something to worry about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. A hole? Here you are, Minister Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Chakarov, thank you. Hardly in the room where I saw Ivelina Vassileva, there are more familiar with the problems in the sector than you are with the European funds. They are indeed extremely insufficient, but we still need to do our utmost to absorb them in fullness. They will solve some of the problems in the water sector. You mentioned master plans. You know that they were drawn up on the basis of the long-term Strategy for the Development of the Water Sector in a 10-year period. It initially gives 14 billion, but about 2 billion. Investments have been taken into account at a subsequent stage and the current needs are around 12 billion for the whole sector. The pre-investment studies are prepared solely for the purposes of European funding and under the Operational Programme "Environment" "for agglomerations with more than 10 thousand equivalents." On its basis, we will be given the opportunity to learn successfully, I am convinced, I will give a little more clarification on the terms of the resource, which remained under the priority axis 1 on the basis of currently implemented phased and early projects under the old principle beneficiaries and municipalities. You know, before the investment studies for phase 2, which I mentioned, in their detail, are based on Regulation No 4 on the scope and content of investment projects. When we talk about linear infrastructure, they will be at the level of completed ideas projects, and when we are talking about extended sewage or drinking water facilities, we are talking about pre-investment studies, according to Ordinance No 4. Within this scope, together with the ready application forms and the financial and economic analyses at the end of the year, November, we will be ready with all the lots. calmly at the end of the year and at the beginning of 2018 we will start the award on the line of the water operators, as a public procurement entity and beneficiaries of infrastructure projects, to the award of the construction and repair activities themselves, so that we can fit in not until 2020, when the end of the programming period is the end of the programming period, but the eligibility of the costs is based on the rule of the "m+c 2023" in order to be completed by the end of 2023, to have implemented all the projects and to have taken due account of the results and benefits. You have rightly mentioned.. so that these investments do not affect the cost of water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u83	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the MP Cyril Kalfin about the need for preventive repair of the road section Crvenyano You have the floor, dear Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question to you is about the road between the village of Crvenyano and the border with the Regional Road Government, which is a major road artery of national importance for the Republic of Bulgaria. Road 1-6 provides the connection of Gyueshevo crossing, Kyustendil city, Radomir town and Pernik city with Sofia, and also serves regional traffic between nearby settlements. Road section from km 37+550 to km 42+480. The border with Pernik district has deteriorated technical performance qualities and conditions for traffic safety. The road pavement was performed in 1982, with rough asphalted fraction, which at this stage is visiblely outdated, heavily worn, with multiple cracks, mending and constantly opening new holes, especially after the autumn-winter service period. I just have to add that from the village of Konyavo to the end of the church road is well made, i.e. the section of half, so to speak, is good, and for the rest of the questions are asked, but this road section is not finished. So my question to you is: when will this be done? What exactly are you suggesting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u85	Thank you, dear Mr. Kalfin. Minister Nankov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Kalfin! The road section Crvenyano. The border with OPU Pernik is part of the Republican road 1-6, the border with the Republic of Macedonia, Gerlino, the Aboutway Kyustendil, Radomir, Pernik, Sofia. The road is located on the territory of Kyustendil district. The section, which is the border with the Pernik region, is 4 km 930 m long and with deteriorated technical performance qualities. The road pavement has a rough asphalted and beaten fraction, implemented, as you mentioned, in 1982. We have seen 35 years of unrehabilitated area, currently heavily worn, with multiple cracks and patchings. In 2016 under the programme "Current repair and maintenance of the Road Infrastructure Agency" there was a patching of damaged areas, deformity of the pavement, worth more than 110 thousand. lv. with VAT. During this year the same Programme has carried out the filling of cracks and fugues, repair of damaged areas and deformities at a total value of almost 90 thousand. lv. with VAT. In order to improve the technical operational status of the road section, it is necessary to carry out preventive repairs, which, according to a preliminary expert assessment, is worth around 2 million. Three hundred thousand. lv. At the moment, the road is not included in the 2017 budget forecast due to the limited budget of the Railway Infrastructure Agency, but on the other hand, we have prepared a request for a deliberate decree for part of the roads based on questions that the Members ask on the basis of and on the road that you are asking for, with a purpose, to increase the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency in 2017 so that it can be included in the API Programme and implemented in this year 2017. However, the Agency shall take care and efforts to maintain the first-class route in good operational condition and ensure the safety of movement. You mentioned the area that has been rehabilitated, but these 5 km will be included in the name list of sites that will apply for intentional funding. We may be able to complete the road section within the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u87	And tolls?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u88	Thank you, dear Minister. A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u89	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I hope this time the real section of the road will be made and will provide a serious, stable connection that exists between Sofia and Kyustendil, and not only for this section, but also for neighbouring areas. As you know, her route from Pernik is passing through this precinct. I hope all of this will be as you explained earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Kalfin. A hole? No. Come straight to your next question, Mr. Kalfin. It is about the need for preventive repair of the road section Gorna Koznitsa You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my next question to you is about the road section of the village of Gorna Koznitsa-Mala Fucha-Babino-Bobov dol, which is undoubtedly important for the settlements in Kyustendil municipality and Bobov dol. There is a transport link between the municipal centers of the neighboring municipalities, as well as the connection of the municipal centers with the district town of Kyustendil. The road is also important for the region, it is used for the transport of workers of mini-bobov and TPP "Bobov dol" as well as for the transport and supply of coal. The existing pavement of the road section is noticeably outdated, has multiple cracks, single failures and deformations, with poor drainage, poor horizontal marking and vertical signalling. The road section was not reconstructed after its construction in 1970. Therefore, I ask you to answer this question and to say what is envisaged for this road section. Is there any possibility that this will happen this year and when will this happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Kalfin. Minister Nankov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Kalfin! The Road Infrastructure Agency is making efforts and taking action to ensure the safety and improvement of the state of the Republican Road Network, as I have always responded to, according to the available financial resources and budgetary resources. The Republican Road 3-602, which you mentioned from the ring road Kyustendil Radomir, via Konyavo, Gorna Koznitsa, Mala Fucha, Bobov Dol is located entirely in the territory of Kyustendil district. The site of Gorna Koznitsa, Mala Fucha, Babino, Bobov dol is 15 km long, 14,950 m long, with multiple cracks, single damage and deformations. In 2014 on the territory of Bobov Dol was placed a dense asphalt mixture of layers of medium thickness in a sealed state of 4 cm, which is why the road in this section is in good condition. The programme "Current repair and maintenance" in 2016 was implemented to strengthen the destroyed section of Mala Fucha "Babino," worth 573 thousand. £339. with VAT. During this year, under the same Programme the Road Infrastructure Agency has carried out renovation of subsidence, patching with cold asphalt mixture and mowing of lawns. At present, due to the limited financial resources, the road again, as well as the previous one, is not included in the investment programme of the Agency. Road Infrastructure. For 2017 the options are again two with a deliberate decree, which we will enter into the Council of Ministers or after validating the budget for 2018 this extremely important for the territory of Kyustendil road section to be rehabilitated and reconstructed. And in order not to disappoint the people's representative from Lovech, who asked the question and called out from a place for tolls, I will say in conclusion that more means are needed to be reinvested in road infrastructure and our top priority in the field of safety, security and road sector as a whole is precisely the introduction of the mixed system - an electronic winemaker for cars and heavy goods vehicles, with which we will generate sufficient resources to be able to meet the expectations not only of the honourable Members, but also of all Bulgarian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u94	Thank you, Minister Nankov. A line, Mr. Kalfin? You won't use it. We are moving on to the issue from the National Representative Ivan Genov and the National Representative Nikolay Ivanov concerning an emergency situation of road sections of the Republican road network in the municipality of Roman. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, it is clear that from this platform we will be asking questions related to the state of the public roads and especially those of the second and third grade. Today my question is about the tragic situation of the Republican road network on the territory of the municipality of Roman. A large part of these sections are in emergency condition and in particular the roads Roman "Red Beach" and Roman "Pravets," as I have already said, in their part in the municipality of Roman. In certain sections of them there have been severe falls and landslide processes, as well as in the region of the village of Tsezveden, on the road Roman " Pravets." The people of the municipality of Roman have been listening for many years to promises of a commitment to repair the road network on the territory of the municipality and have already been disillusioned. My question to you is what repair activities are envisaged in 2017 for the roads from the Republican Road Network in the municipality of Roman, and in particular for the road sections quoted by me above? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Dear Minister Nankov, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ivanov! In the section of the Republican network of the municipality of Roman, Vratsa District, the third-class roads 3-308 Road 3-308 has broken-stone pavement and insufficient gauge, i.e. a narrow road. When providing the necessary means for this section of the third-class road, the design of a reconstruction project will be commissioned, where its gauge will be extended to the standard road for this class. Repair activities will be awarded after a tendering procedure. At the beginning of 2015, a landslide was activated, so by order of 3 April of the same year the Director of Regional Road Management An engineering-geological study is needed to clarify the causes of destabilization processes and to prepare a report on the measures to be taken to strengthen the landslide. At the moment, the financial resources of the Road Infrastructure Agency are limited, which is why it is impossible at this stage to commission and implement the relevant repair and reconstruction activities. The opportunities will continue to be sought to provide the necessary funds for the award of research-design works and the implementation of the renovation-supporting events for landslides, including from the saved resources under the Operational Programme "Environment" under the project axis for the prevention of landslide and aerodynamic processes, the beneficiary of which is the Road Infrastructure Agency. Road 3-1031, 1031, in 2000 the road was ranked by municipal in third class. It is characterized by extremely low intensity of movement. The road is supported by the programme Current repair and maintenance of the Road Infrastructure Agency within the framework of the available financial resources. Last year, drainage events and landscape formation of an extremely low value were carried out about 10 thousand. lv. with VAT. However, in order to achieve a lasting effect to improve its technical-economic and operational state, it is necessary to carry out preventive repairs, which, on expert evaluation, without having a project under expert assessment by the "Travel Infrastructure" Agency, will be worth about 8 million. lv. value added tax. You can see what a huge resource we're talking about the third-rate time I mentioned. In order to ensure normal road communication within the municipality of Roman, opportunities will continue to be sought to provide funds for the relevant repair activities by including in one of the API's budgetary programmes in 2018 and 2019 as well as through targeted funding. I will conclude again with the fact that these issues and problems will be permanently unsolved if we lightly reject the subject and do not work on the issue of the rapid implementation of the mixed system toll charges for heavy goods and electronic wineries for cars. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u98	Thank you, dear Minister! Mr. Ivanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, of course, I cannot be satisfied with your reply, although there is no person in this room who is not aware of the insufficient budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency. I was hoping, as you said last week in parliamentary control, that much of the logic of your actions precedes our questions and that this will also apply to this case, but obviously not. I understand that the low intensity of traffic on these roads is one of the main reasons not to be priority, but the situation in Roman is extremely severe. The connection of the municipality of Roman on the Republican road network with the road Sofia "Varna," with the district of Pleven, with the district of Sofia, which was mentioned in this issue, are in extremely difficult condition. Similar is the condition, as you said, of the road section, which is the intra-blast road in the direction of Mezdra, where serious reconstruction is also needed. In practice, the municipality is cut off from normal access to public services, regional administrative centres or at all to ensure normal traffic throughout the region and the whole area. I hope that next year we are talking about repairs and I fully understand that it is hardly possible to provide funds for overall reconstruction, it is really necessary to pay more serious attention to the Republican road network in the municipality of Roman. A suggestion to you, Mr. Minister. There was a good practice in the past when it was clear the framework of the budget of Regional Road Management, together with the mayors of municipalities and with the district governor to discuss the most prioritized and most severe areas at least for emergency repairs during the relevant budgetary year. This practice always allows to identify the most important repairs activities during the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Here's your coat, Minister Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, on the contrary, the logic of your questions always follows the logic of the actions taken by us, precisely in the case of the introduction of the mixed system And yes, it is a good practice. We will continue to follow it along with the mayors and the respective regional road managements and prioritize the most urgent and urgent repair activities with insufficient financial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u102	Thank you, dear Minister. Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. Here you are, Mrs. Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Borisov, ladies and gentlemen ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Yesterday, lawmakers from the ruling majority rejected our proposal for a change in the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber, by which we wanted to introduce a mandatory minimum amount of pay to academics of a basic contract in higher schools, in the Bulgarian Academy of Science and in the Agricultural Academy. The proposed basic salaries were to be between two minimum salaries for an assistant and five minimum salaries for a professor. Unfortunately, this proposal is once again rejected by the MPs from the ruling coalition, by the Ministry of Finance and by the Ministry of Science and Education, without having serious arguments. There were also no alternative proposals. We made this proposal, worried about the critical imbalance that exists in Bulgaria, pay in the work of scientists and other types of unqualified labor. In no European country, and in the rest of the world, scientists receive wages lower than salaries for unqualified work. It is incomprehensible that this applies mostly to people with higher qualifications working at the Bulgarian Academy of Agriculture and, notice, even in higher schools, some of which are very high rating. We are witnessing a distortion caused consciously by a state policy that leads the right and the governments headed by Mr. Borisov. There is constantly talk about quality in education, about quality in teaching, about science. But what quality can it be when people who create science and train the future specialists of the country do not have their elementary means of existence? Without providing the basic needs for the lives of scientists, it is not possible to introduce differentiated pay according to the individual results achieved. Intentionally supported low wages for almost ten years have stopped all other payment opportunities to stimulate the work and quality work of individual scientists, quality research. Dear colleagues, the problem is not from yesterday and thank you for being recognised yesterday by everyone. But its resolution can no longer be postponed because the consequences are becoming more and more severe, and they are beginning to become irreversible. Mainly because of the low pay and inadequate conditions for research in recent years Bulgarian scientists have left the country. In Bulgaria there are already whole scientific areas in which there is no competence. The long-term understatement of highly qualified work has led our country to the last places in the number of researchers. The European Commission report noted that while the European Union averages 10.55 per thousand researchers, we have 4.43. There are three more in Romania, in Croatia, in Slovenia. It is crucial that the European Union's recommendation to increase scientists' salaries! And now for the arguments. It is absurd whether the state should pay the salaries of scientists in state scientific institutions. This question has slipped into the Ministry of Finance's reasoning. But even more absurd is the argument that the introduction of minimum salaries provided by the state for state universities and institutions would violate their autonomy. In most European countries, such thresholds have been introduced to pay the academic staff, which is determined by governments. In Germany, the minimum salary of a young scientist is 3405 euros, the associate professor of 3800 euros, the professor of 4700 euros. I ask: when the average salary in BAS is 741 BGN, in the Agricultural Academy is 730 BGN, in four higher schools the salary is between 860 and 980 BGN, when the remuneration of young scientists is equal to the minimum salary in the country, and professors receive less than 1000 BGN, what future do we hope for? The beginner teacher starts with a higher salary than his assistant and sometimes his professor. Even those we hire as waiters have over 1,000 leva. salary. What is important is that European scientific projects are also determined by the salary of our scientists and then our colleagues receive three times, four times lower payments for the same work. As a result of short-sighted politics, the scientific climate is degraded. Reputable Bulgarian and scientific schools were lost and the young scientists from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences remained only 11% of the entire academic staff. Each year more than 10,000 capable young Bulgarians go to foreign universities. That should worry all of us. If anyone thinks they can have an economy without science and without education, it's a complete delusion. If there is no one to train our teachers, how will they train our children? Then the degradation occurs along the entire chain of professional development. This behavior of GERB MPs is inexplicable against the background of election vows for support, for priority, for love of education and science. Do you know how many people we're talking about? For 16 thousand academic staff in higher schools and state academies, and for determining only a minimum wage threshold, over which each university or institute can build its own payments according to the individual abilities of the exercises and its own revenues. The additional funds for the introduction of minimum base wages are insignificant compared to those two billion we spend on renovations. Is this sanitization always quality? After all, we urgently need to change our minds! In Bulgaria, money should be invested for research. Currently, they are only 0.25% of gross domestic product. For Europe, the averages are 2,0 On this depends the true competitiveness of the state and the Bulgarian business. You point out in your priorities for the Bulgarian Presidency of the European Union the growing role of human resources and the necessary investments in this. I hope these aren't just another beautiful word, ladies and gentlemen, who will once again remain only on paper. The problem is by no means party, it's very overparty, it's national. This is a problem of our national security and our national development. Bulgaria is losing its intellect. Do you appreciate the argument that money should be made when it comes to people who have not worked for more than a month, who have earned their money with a policy challenged by half Bulgaria? The political question is not whether, but to whom and for what we should give money. I therefore refer once again to all my colleagues, to all the parties, to the government, to society and we call on you to make every effort to achieve a positive political solution, to bring our country back to European goals, to build an economy and a knowledge society! And the first condition for this is to provide payment to scientists and lecturers, which will allow them to live worthy of their qualified work, not by driving a taxi. Otherwise, we'll have to expand the highways to Terminal 2. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u104	Thank you, dear Professor. Klisarova. This was a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. We are moving on to the debates on the asking of the MP Cornelia Ninova to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on the White Paper on the development of Europe, proposed by Mr Juncker President of the European Commission. Report on debates on the asking of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on the White Paper on the Development of Europe proposed by Mr Juncker President of the European Commission: The request by the National Representative Georgi Yordanov was answered at the meeting on 7 July 2017, Friday. At the same meeting 65 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) submitted a proposal for a debate on the questioning together with the draft decision. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next parliamentary control meeting. The proposal for debate on the inquiry and the draft decision were sent to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form on 7 July 2017, Friday. A second draft was introduced for a decision by three MPs from the political party GERB parliamentary group on 13 July 2017, Thursday. A third draft decision was introduced by three MPs from the parliamentary group on 13 July 2017, Thursday. The second and third draft decisions were sent on the same day to the MPs in electronic form. Drafts submitted for a decision to be voted on: First draft decision submitted by 65 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and No 754 00-70 of 7 July 2017, registered at 11.13 pm; second draft decision submitted by three MPs from the political party GERB parliamentary group, No 754-02-64 of 13 July 2017, registered at 10.47 pm, and third draft decision submitted by three MPs from the parliamentary group Movement for Rights and Freedoms, No 754-02-65 of 13 July 2017, registered at 12.08 pm. The first draft decision on an importer's opinion? People's representative Christian Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u105	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, fellow MPs! Today is an important day for the National Assembly. For the first time since the beginning of his term of office, the Prime Minister has been here to discuss with the MPs and, through them, Bulgarian citizens, issues about the development of the European Union. By the way, European topics have generally been pushed into the corner in recent years, but we sincerely believe that this is changing permanently. I would like to remind you that immediately after the elections and before the formation of the government, BSP, through its leader Cornelia Ninova, announced its intention to seek agreement with the government on matters relating to the European Union and specifically on the preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, on a clear condition that the important decisions be discussed and adopted here in the National Assembly. An important sign that this responsible gesture was understood became the fact that an opposition representative became President of the European Affairs and Control Committee of the European Funds. From these requests and intentions, the BSP has not deviated. Although today's debates are challenged by the opposition, I believe they will set a good precedent and turn the conversation between the MPs and the prime minister into a common practice. BSP closely monitors the preparation for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. It has, in general, three aspects. Firstly, what priorities for the European Union will Bulgaria propose for the Presidency period? What positions will Bulgaria make on the important issues for the European Union that we ourselves put on the agenda of the Presidency? And thirdly, how will preparation go as organization and logistics? On the first question, BSP repeatedly expressed concern that the clarification and presentation of these priorities was delayed. I can only express satisfaction that our calls were heard and on Wednesday this week the government adopted a draft programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Hours later it was presented to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and a day later officially submitted to the National Assembly. Demands were made for a broad public debate. BSP expects one in the National Assembly. It is normal for each parliamentary committee to consider priorities, to present its contribution, and for the European Fund Control Committee to debate and adopt material in plenary in autumn. Such an inclusive approach we are ready to support, with active work, because the Presidency is not on GERB, it is on Bulgaria. Although we are not commenting on the priorities on the substance today, I can also point out that some of our demands have already found a place in this Western Balkans Programme, the Black Sea Region, the creation of a fairer Europe with a focus on investing in education, human resources, combating poverty. The great challenge facing the government and the majority from now on will be able to prove that there will be no double standards to offer some priorities for the European Union, but in Bulgaria to work either without priorities or contrary to European priorities. Mr. Prime Minister, your Minister Lilyana Pavlova has managed to prepare a European Union Priority Project, take this Project and develop it into the management program of your government. It's high time you presented one to us. Finally, as the first point of our Project has been implemented by the government in the meantime, I suggest that it be not put to the vote. The second element of our preparation. From now on, it is clear that some key issues for the future of the European Union will be in the focus of the attention during the Bulgarian Presidency, the policy, the common agricultural policy, the economic and monetary union, the debate will probably begin on the multi-distant financial framework as well. Each of these topics is a result of the most fundamental question: how do we want the European Union to change? From the answer to this question, which for the first time stood so sharp 60 years after the beginning of the European integration processes and 10 years after Bulgaria's accession to the European Union, all other policies depend. The European Commission has proposed five options. According to the proposed five scenarios for the individual policies and areas of cooperation, there are favourable plays for our country, listed in the different scenarios, but an impact assessment on the individual public spheres and policies should be sought. It is necessary for the Bulgarian national position to accumulate and take into account the conclusion of the development of a comprehensive sectoral analysis, which takes into account the consequences, the specifics of the different scenarios on specific policies, protects the national interest and takes into account the public impact. This will open the way for the development of a Bulgarian scenario, which is missing today. There may be separate analyses developed by experts in the administration, but there is a need for a nationwide reading that will bring out the foreground and take into account the vision of all stakeholders - employers and social partners, young people, civil society, academics, local authorities, to hear their inspirations, hopes, care for Bulgaria and Europe. There are a number of formats within which this debate can be held. Most important, I think it's parliamentary. For us, the national reading must also be held in the context of the 10th anniversary of our accession to the European Union - one as solid as it is a short period in order to take into account the lessons, lessons learned, but also the achievements, the benefits of our undisputed and firm civilization choice. This will open the way to formulating a truly consolidated national position, taking into account the heights of the decisions to be taken within the European Union for the European Union itself, of which there will be direct consequences for Bulgaria. And so far there are red lines from which Bulgaria should not back down in defending its position. I will mark only a few of them, as today's debate is not yet in substance. A serious signal for the future of Europe will be the negotiation of the European Union budget for the next programming period in view of the current challenges and taking into account the UK's exit from the Union. Practical solidarity and cohesion need to be reaffirmed as horizontal principles in all Union actions. The cohesion and the catching-up development of the new Member States are key to the unity and overall development of the European Union. The four freedoms of movement considered indivisible within the internal market should not be affected in the process of adapting the European Union to the new challenges. The guarantee of external and internal security, the implementation of the comprehensive migration policy and the permanent commitment to solidarity support to the Member States from the external borders of the European Union, the reform of the European asylum system and its transformation into an effective and fair asylum policy are other red lines on which Bulgaria should not allow itself to retreat. There will be time for debate, but there is something really important to us. The European Union must remain a community of equal and equal actors. We oppose the violation of the Union's unity and integrity by distinguishing the objectives of integration or configuring some type of multidimensional Europe or the Europe of different speeds. Otherwise, this will make Europe more complex, more difficult to understand, more inconsistent and more unable to address the current difficulties effectively. The formalisation of the Europe of different speeds and circles of integration would not be seen as an exception or stage of development of the Member States, but, unfortunately, a conscious choice. Because of all this, the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is proposing by 30 September the government to present an analysis of the effects for Bulgaria of the various options for development of the European Union and Bulgaria's position on them. Let us then work together our Bulgarian scenario for the development of the European Union. On the third element of the preparation of the logistics, I will not speak. I will just say that time is running fast and we need to ensure that the three.. consensus, competitiveness and cohesion will not be gained in the eyes of our partners quite another reading, such as corruption, theft and other interesting words with............................... I mean, at the end of the day, there are contact points in the three proposed projects. I do not know if we will be able to do such a joint project today, but first, of course, we must be ready to accept the information that the Prime Minister will present to us. It is perfectly logical, as GERB proposes, that Deputy Prime Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva report regularly on the development of the debate in the European Union, I would say not only in the Committee on Foreign Policy, because the European Union is not only foreign policy, but also in other committees, including the Committee on European Affairs. Of course, we should not remain at this passive level of information to the Bulgarian Parliament. We need debate and solutions here in plenary, in the committees on this key issue. So I call on, with the corresponding adjustments and adaptations, to support the points proposed in the three projects, which are adequate enough, and to really try to walk together on this subject, not to try to fool ourselves, but to show that Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Parliament, the various political forces can work together on the important issues for Bulgaria, because the configuration is one today supposed to be quite different only after a year, but Bulgaria remains and its place in the European Union is extremely important. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. On behalf of the importers of the second draft Law, the People's Representative Jemma Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u107	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! I will present our draft decision and justify why it is. Our first point says we accept the information presented by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov on the White Paper. Let us not forget today that we are talking about the White Paper presented by Jean-Claude Juncker on 1 March 2017. We say this because such information was presented last Friday at parliamentary control. Of course, there is nothing wrong with having debates on this issue today. The second point is that the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs periodically presents to the Foreign Policy Committee information that is up to date for the development of the pan-European debate on the White Paper on the future of the European Union. We will say why we do not want to set deadlines for this process. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the White Paper, as I have already said, is a document presented by the European Commission and its President Jean-Claude Juncker. This is an initiative to discuss options for the future of the European Union, which has no regulatory character and is not legally binding. The aim is to raise the attention of the Member States in the sectors concerned in this document and in the scenarios presented. I would add that in June of this year the European Commission is only one month ago, there is not so much, it has presented the so-called................................................................................ They are on the topics of social development and on the issues of European Union financing and economic and monetary union and on the development of the benefits of globalisation, which, of course, includes the European Union. I note that these documents complement the White Paper, which was presented in March. Does this mean that you who want today's analysis will expect an analysis then of the analysis presented in June? I don't think so, because we understand that this is unnecessary. The White Paper is the contribution of one of the institutions of the European Union, namely the European Commission, to the debate on the future of the European Union. The main objective of this document is to involve both the European institutions and the Member States and, above all, civil society, business and academic circles in this debate. All of this is in order to achieve political consensus. The debate on Europe's future is in development. It is currently taking place at national governments and national governments so far have not given and have not formulated specific positions. What's about to happen? In September this year Jean-Claude Juncker will present his traditional speech on the state of the Union and will further develop the ideas of the White Paper. The Bulgarian government will then continue to work on preparing a Framework Position for our participation in the European Council in December this year when conclusions on the future of the Union are expected to be adopted. I suggest that we let the government do its job, with individual departments continuing to prepare the relevant materials for the finalisation of such a position. Such materials are also available at this time, and they are summarised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Therefore, in our Draft Decision, we propose, as I have already said, that the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs periodically inform about this process. I mean two stages of information. The first, following the final speech on the status of the Union of Jean-Claude Juncker in September and before the European Council in December. I would like to emphasise that, according to our Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly is to examine and rule on framework positions drawn up by the Council on European Affairs solely on the compliance of the European Union directives or legislative acts with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and cannot give opinions and opinions that change the content of the framework positions. Therefore, the National Assembly will not be able to discuss and adopt a Framework Position for a vision for the development of the European Union, as said in the Draft Decision of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, because we do not have such powers under the Rules of Procedure. The way to interact with the Council on European Affairs is the MPs who are members of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, to attend the meetings of the Council on European Affairs and thus to participate in the process of forming these positions. It is extremely important, ladies and gentlemen, that the European Union achieves a single perspective for its future. I believe that the foundations of this unity have been laid in the Rome Declaration of 25 March 2017 and for me this is the fundamental document at this stage for the future of the European Union. You know that we have well participated and given our position on cohesion policy in this document. We will continue to insist that the principles of solidarity and cohesion are leading, and we must not give up on them. I would like to remind you that in 2015, when Bulgaria was Chairman of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, this organisation, consisting of 47 member states of a large Europe, adopted the so-called "Sofia Declaration of European Unity and Cooperation" which is, in fact, proof of our position and of the support that we are able to receive when the internal political parties are united. I therefore call on you not to be hasty in setting deadlines, because the debate on the White Paper and on the future of the European Union is just beginning and will develop. Information about this process will be provided in the Parliamentary Committees of the National Assembly. I would also like to say that the European Parliament is not at this stage involved in this debate, and this is expected to happen and start in September. Again, the position is a prerogative and final decisions are taken by national governments. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u108	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. From the importers of the third draft decision? Mrs. Mehmedova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u109	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! The movement for rights and freedoms has always been a principled position that Bulgaria should be an active member of the European Union. It is very easy for any party in power to extract a political dividend with one or other actions relating to the European Union or our country's foreign policy. For example, the DPS may point out that we are the political force that for the first time spoke about NATO membership and that the government with our mandate ended the negotiations and made Bulgaria a member of the European Union. But that would be selfish of us, and we realize that. Moreover, any action related to Bulgaria's membership in the European Union and foreign policy carries with it a huge responsibility, which is not for the shoulders of just one party or one government. It is for this reason that we of the DPS have repeatedly expressed the opinion that all of Bulgaria's positions in a European and foreign policy plan should be consensual. In the discussion on the future of the European Union, the White Paper is one of the structural documents. It is expected to have an impact on the work programmes of the European Commission by the end of its term of office, as well as on the programme of the next trio Presidency of the European Union, including the Bulgarian Presidency since the beginning of 2018. That is why we of the DPS require an analysis of the effects for Bulgaria of the various options for the development of the European Union, implemented in the White Paper and a project position protecting our national interests. The Republic of Bulgaria, as President of the Council of the European Union, must have specific relevant development aspects in order to be able to assume responsibility during its Presidency and to be a balance sheeter and a country seeking compromise and understanding between the members of the European Union with regard to legislative acts. We know very well that the White Paper is a discussion instrument in which information on future legislative initiatives is presented, in the case of the reform of the European Union. In the debate it can be heard that we, as a small country, should wait to see what the bigger ones will say if the five scenarios will not be reduced to two or three and only then we will be involved in the process. This may be a reflex from recent years, including the observed and in the process of relocation of two European agencies, the one about medicines and the banking authority. Skipping three rounds of discussions and including Bulgaria in the final stage, when all arteries are already defined and the solution is de facto predetermined, is obviously not the most successful approach to Bulgaria's participation in solving European issues. Don't get us wrong! This is not a self-inflicted criticism. We know that reforming the European Union will effectively have an effect on all Bulgarian citizens living in our homeland and in Europe. It is precisely the seriousness of these facts that obliges the executive and Parliament together to examine and find the best solutions so that we can participate in the process of discussion in Europe at the earliest possible stage. We in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms believe that there is the key to a successful European policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. And, if we have to use Brussels slang, see how to take advantage at the very beginning of the three games, namely: procedures, personalities and politicians, so that we can protect our national interest most effectively. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable Members! Even if we have missed the time for Bulgaria's positioning in some of these three vectors, we still have time to catch up and draw a winning strategy and tactics, bearing in mind that this is only possible on one condition: if we act together with consensus if we act quickly and operationally, using all the dimensions and representations that Bulgaria has in the European institutions. This is the main reason for our proposed draft decision, namely: the Council of Ministers by 7 September 2017 to present an analysis of the effects for Bulgaria of the various development options of the European Union proposed in the White Paper on the future of Europe and the draft position of Bulgaria; the National Assembly by 30 September 2017 to discuss and adopt a framework position for a vision for the development of the European Union, in line with the national interest of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you. As always, the DPS believes that reason will prevail when it comes to the Republic of Bulgaria and our future European home. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u110	Thank you, dear Mrs. Mehmedova. Dear colleagues, let me introduce you to the time distribution in relation to the application of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Political party GERB 19 minutes; Bulgarian Movement for Rights and Freedoms 7 minutes; United patriots NFSB, ATAKA, VMRO A total of 60 minutes which cannot be extended. I allowed during the importer's views a rather wide-ranging presentation of the subject, but the debates are only taking place on the subject of the questioning, its response and on the project. The topic is: The White Paper with the five scenarios, not the presidency of Bulgaria. I will be very strict in the speeches and I will remind you not to deviate from the subject. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Stoinev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Prime Minister, you listened to BSP and you didn't make a mistake. [[Radio.]] When you came to power, we told you: you have BSP support for the European Presidency, here we need consensus. The fact that you submitted the draft Bulgaria programme for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union a few days ago is the result of BSP's insistence. It is only right that the document here I address to the President of the National Assembly, to enter into the parliamentary committees for a detailed debate. I know, Prime Minister, it is difficult to take the hand of the opposition, but only at the end of the year will Bulgaria come up with a common political document that will show maturity and responsibility. We have a lot of work ahead of us and I guarantee you that the MPs from BSP will be constructive again. Here I would like to raise the subject of Bulgaria and the European Union in another light. The Presidency is a coordinated and precisely signed process. However, there is a great debate in the European Union on how it will continue to function.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u112	Mr. Stoinev, the topic of debate is the White Paper.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u113	That's what this is about, Mr. Chairman. Don't be misled, because one and the other is absolutely connected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u114	You have tabled a topic for debate "The White Paper."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u115	On the occasion of the scenarios, we must have an exact coordinated policy. My concern and questions are: what is the Bulgarian position on the change in the European Union? Are we in this debate at all? Today, the European Union is going through one of its biggest crises. A crisis of integrity, a crisis of trust in the European idea, a crisis of mechanisms, financial, administrative, political through which unity is maintained and, above all, a crisis of security because of terrorism and refugees. At the external borders of the European Union it burns and another major fire. The region is destabilized. The Union or the big ones in the Union react, start talking about new policies and levels of interaction, defence and security, need to be funded, changes in the European budget. The truth is that you, the rulers, are also formally moving along the background of this dynamic. The five scenarios for the future of the European Union, known as the White Paper, as well as the five scenarios for the future EU Multiannual Financial Framework after 2020, are not bureaucratic documents for another European debate. They are a red lamp, a sign that the European Commission, which is always extremely cautious, says: the Union will change, the problems are many, the money is not enough, the funding will change. From what is going as a European debate at the moment on these five scenarios, new priorities and a corresponding shift of funding are seen. I don't like bureaucratic terms, but you'll understand. Strong voices in the European Union are no longer talking about cohesion, but about convergence of processes. They are not talking about promoting the economies of individual member states, but about macroeconomic stability and supranational projects. There are scenarios for new policies in energy and environmental protection that can hit our national interest by shutting down inappropriate capacities and controlling strategic government assets. I am not saying that it will happen, but there are strong factors in the European Union, unfortunately, that want it. Just when we are in the Presidency in 2017, the preparation of the EU Multiannual Financial Framework will begin after 2020. Or more clearly: it will begin to become clear what changes will be, who will prevail and how the budget will be allocated. Are we going to be formal and quiet again? Wouldn't he lose to this the European Union itself? That is why BSP is proposing to you today, as at the beginning of your mandate: we will support you in preparing the Bulgarian scenario for the future of the European Union, in defending the national interest in Brussels. If you want to have a strong position outside, first let's build a national consensus behind it. The red lines for which BSP believes Bulgaria should not back down in this debate are several: economic growth, employment, eradication of poverty, conservation of energy positions and energy independence of the country. In the field of economics, we will insist on continuing policies to support small and medium-sized enterprises and not establishing rules according to the interest of large corporations and monopolies. Aid for providing affordable financial resources, translating small and medium-sized businesses on the road to technological renewal, protecting the interests of Bulgarian producers within the single market. In the field of income, the eradication of the phenomenon working and poor. A faster rate of convergence of the incomes of Bulgarian citizens with those of the rich member states of the European Union. Integration of disabled people into the labour market. Four hundred thousand, I repeat, 400 thousand are working poor in Bulgaria. They are not only citizens of Bulgaria but also citizens of the European Union. In the field of energy. Maintaining the integrity and independence of Bulgarian energy and energy capacities. It is impossible for us to meet new and high requirements of bureaucratic norms and directives for environmental protection. It is impossible for us to close coal power plants because of high environmental standards and to leave hundreds of thousands of families out of work and, at the same time, honourable Members, in a neighbouring Turkey not to control pollution. It is impossible for us to separate ourselves from strategic assets in the economy and energy. Europe today needs to take a real look at the dangerous processes. In addition to the refugee crisis, another major crisis is under way within the European Union, the crisis of euroscepticism. Change in the European Union is necessary, but not as it is often seen from Brussels, higher requirements, more regulations, more and more difficult conditions. The change in the European Union must be about solidarity and understanding the vital needs of all member states. Bulgaria is in a position to start such a conversation in the European Union not only because of the Presidency, but also because of the fact that we are an external border, that there are strategic energy paths passing through our territory, that we are a country that is a guarantee of stability in a very dynamic region, I am talking about both the Western Balkans and the Black Sea region. Bulgaria should not want anything from the European Union, Bulgaria should propose and form an agenda because of these qualities. Therefore, colleagues from GERB, let us be responsible in addition to the formal process of discussing the Bulgarian programme for the Presidency, we enter into a much bigger topic about how the European Union is changing and where the interest of our region is. Let's position ourselves high and set high targets. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Here you go. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u117	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues! I can slow down if I have to, but it's not necessary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u118	Please, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u119	Otherwise, my procedure is a request... I understand that the debate goes like this, but as far as I understand it, it is intended for everyone to speak and then the Prime Minister and the ministers to take the floor. It's okay, they can take her after. In my opinion, for the purposes of the meaningful debate and the constructive debate, it is better whether the Prime Minister or some of the ministers should expose the government's view of what we are doing right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u120	There is no such procedure as you suggest.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u121	On the contrary, there is practice because they can take the floor at any time and for as long as they want. This does not mean that they cannot take it after this, but the debate will take place in a completely different way if we hear the opinion at the moment of the government and then discuss what they are saying because it will make sense for the purposes of the debate itself. They, of course, may not. That would be to the detriment of the debate. So my proposal, in order to have a meaningful debate and to hold it quality and beneficial for all of us and for citizens, is to tell each other what they think about it so that opinions are not a clash of two political forces on both sides, but to have something constructive in it. So I suggest that you give the floor to the Prime Minister or some of the ministers who have decided to state the point of view.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u122	There's no such procedure! Do not introduce new rules in the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, at which time each of the ministers or prime minister may take action. Are you going to speak, Mr. Chakarov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u123	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The White Paper on the five scenarios for the future of the European Union of European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker is now being discussed quite thoroughly within the European Union, and it is quite understandable. The debate that was to be held in Bulgaria did not take place at least at this stage within which we would like it to take place, and separate speeches by our statesmen have passed within the framework of the European debates. We just heard the position presented by the colleague from GERB, Chairman of the Foreign Commission. The fact that the Foreign Commission presents the development and debate in our country is good, but it is good that this debate should be made available to all Members of the National Assembly as well as to our entire public. Because we must not underestimate that there is no legal connection to the White Paper of the President of the European Commission, Mr Jean-Claude Juncker. It really draws new perspectives in the development of Europe, the European Union and the member states of the European Union. This concerns our country as well. In short, we can hardly call this debate being held in the country as a thorough national debate. This is the goal of all of us to have an in-depth national debate in which to clarify our positions. There is still, I stress, clear information which of the five scenarios or combinations of which scenarios Bulgaria supports and which scenarios of these scenarios or a combination of them would be best for us in defence of our national interest, Bulgaria. It is not clear whether there is a consistent policy in the position of the respective ministers when participating in different formats. It's good to be in public with all of us as well. Unfortunately, after the Council's 18-month programme, prepared by the future Estonian, our Bulgarian and Austrian Presidency, became a fact of the priority areas in it, it is not clear again our Bulgarian position on the proposed scenarios in the White Paper or at least to have an addressee. Unfortunately, there is indeed a lack of a thorough, political, valuable debate in which to clarify what our position would be. In our view, it was logical to first reach a national consensus on how we see the future of the European Union and only then define the priorities of our future Presidency, again in the context of the development of the European Union and the protection of the Bulgarian national interest. In addition, fellow Members, Brexit is approaching. There are serious debates in Europe on the future of the Union, and we are here arguing about housing, about repairs. We really need to concentrate, focus on the prospects for the country and the serious cases that we need to discuss. We have understood that there will be nine priority areas - all of which, Mr President, I say in the context of the White Paper, and they are defined for now, on which Bulgaria will be betting, are consensus, cohesion and competitiveness. There, too, had to be held or a debate was to be held, albeit late. It wouldn't be a bad idea to be held to clarify our positions. The position of the DPS, the parliamentary group of the DPS, is, apart from these three priorities, to pay attention, firstly, to promoting entrepreneurship and supporting small and medium-sized enterprises; preparing young people sufficiently for active participation in the labour market; equal treatment and non-discrimination; promoting social justice; combating poverty and social exclusion. Let us not forget and always be ahead of us politicians and the fact that, unfortunately, our country has the lowest GDP and every opportunity and occasion to be used in order to promote it. Unfortunately, we do not enjoy the statistics, which is a fact, although I believe that we have potential and we all need to unite for proper effective policies. That Romania is ahead of us in terms of minimum wages and in terms of gross domestic product, must be a very motivating moment for all of us. With regard to the forthcoming changes in cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy, as they are presented, we express our concern about the rumours that a reduction of funds is being prepared in these directions. This is important, honourable Members, given that for our country and for other countries that are in an approximate level to our country, it is important that these funds are available in the next programming period with a view to raising, as I have just said, the standard of living, the gross domestic product and the improvement of infrastructure and the quality standard in our country. We also note that the future of the European Union is a sensitive topic and what we would suggest would hardly immediately be accepted by other countries and in the context of the White Paper and the opportunities that the country's presidency has given us since 1 January next year. But we are obliged to present our positions to our partners and to the maximum extent to defend them, to adopt them and thus to provoke and debate the debate in which we call, as well as the colleague who speaks on behalf of our parliamentary group, when presenting the draft decision. I would say that all political forces in this debate must be united with a sub-party political consensus. As so far, we have not once called by the DPS for maximum protection of the Bulgarian national interest in this debate, both in the European political area and in our overall foreign policy. We hope this will be successful, and this must happen, Prime Minister, before the initial conclusions regarding the White Paper are drawn in December, before the Council of Europe and before the first positions that European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker would have presented again. All this I say in the context of protecting our interest in the European political area for the development of the country and the Presidency to be as effective for all of us, the citizens of Bulgaria, as well as for the development of the European Union. With joint efforts, I believe that we could achieve this. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u124	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are.. the People's Representative Ivelina Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u125	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, honourable Members! The topics we are discussing today are undoubtedly the subject of national consensus, because our society is really tired of frescoes, sharp opposition, small party struggles and false news. I say this in order to provoke colleagues on the left to make efforts to really be constructive opposition that will contribute to the development of the state and the prosperity of our society with real policies, ideas and proposals. This does not happen either with the launch and dissemination of false news, such as that they would take away our presidency. Even less is the case with untimely proposals for decisions of the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u126	Who on the left said that?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u127	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u128	...such as the government presenting the draft programme for the Presidency in the future, given that, according to the government's long-solicited plans, the commitment made by it, the document has already been adopted to the Council of Ministers and submitted to the National Assembly's Office. It's a good thing today's debate isn't about tile, mortar and hot coffee. Today's debate, colleagues, is about the future of Europe. Today's debate is about the future of Bulgaria and the place and the role of Bulgaria in formulating European policies and tackling the complex challenges of our time. Challenges like terrorism, migration, climate change. Challenges that stand before us with a very sharp force. We are talking about the scenarios for the future of Europe and like Prime Minister Borisov during the parliamentary control last week said: "The scenarios for the future of Europe can only be acceptable if they are based on the will of a member state to decide for itself where it wants to be and not another to determine its place. Bulgaria has an interest to participate in a strong and united Europe, with more integration. So let us really do this outside party and nationally responsible for the topics that we are discussing. Let us remember that upliftment and positivism, which had covered all of us in the years when Bulgaria had rushed and united around the cause to be accepted into the European Union. We have some serious challenges ahead of us. We also have the first Presidency of the Council of the European Union. I hope this will also be a united cause for Bulgaria. Because we at GERB believe that when we are joined by European values such as freedom, democracy, rule of law, respect for human rights, unification in the name of Bulgaria is not difficult. It is important that we preserve these values and pass them on to our children. The work of the government and of the National Assembly on the first day on which they were constituted is largely predetermined with a priority focus on issues concerning the future of Europe, the future of Bulgaria and the future first rotating presidency of the Council of the European Union. A little chronology. You remember that Decision of 26 July 2016 changed the order in which the Member States to take over the Presidency of the European Union and, according to this decision, Bulgaria had to undertake to chair the Council of the European Union from 1 January to 30 June 2018. Therefore, both the second government of Prime Minister Borisov and the caretaker government and the current third government of Prime Minister Borisov work actively and priorityly for the preparation of the Presidency. Of course, Europe's future and debate on the White Paper proposed by Jean-Claude Juncker and our role during the Presidency have a direct link, because this will be the time at which the scenarios for the future of Europe will be actively discussed. On 23 June Bulgaria, Estonia and Austria formally adopted the European Union's priority programme over the next 18 months. On 28 June, Deputy Prime Minister Zaharieva and Minister Pavlova presented to the Committee on Foreign Policy the priorities of the trio and the goals of the Bulgarian government within the framework of the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. On 30 June we had a meeting of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, during which a discussion was held on the political aspects of the parliamentary dimension of the first Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union with the participation of the Members of the European Parliament. Much of the talks concerned Europe's future. It has already been approved, as I mentioned, the first draft of the programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. On the same day, it was presented to the European Affairs and Control Committee of European Funds. And in order to achieve as broad a public consensus as possible, the government has already started a public debate with all stakeholders. Here is also the serious role of the National Assembly, as there is a debate in each of the relevant committees on the important topics that concern our society and the future of Bulgaria. I am convinced that there will be an active participation and serious contribution of all MPs, because both the government and we in the National Assembly are actively working to hold a successful Bulgarian Presidency. We have months ahead of us, during which our country has the ambition, not only to be the co-ordinator and administrator of the processes, but also an active mediator and political leader within the Presidency, because the Presidency is a responsibility, it is a challenge, but also an opportunity. And let us have self-esteem, because Bulgaria has its important role and place among the countries of the European Union, we also have the leader who puts important issues on the agenda of Europe and offers solutions. Therefore, dialogue is needed between all parliamentary groups to work together to find the best solution for Bulgaria, the best scenarios for Bulgaria. Of course, it is a good time to build a strategy for the Western Balkans to remain on the European Union's agenda. It is important for the imposition of a sustainable and integrated approach for the Danube and Black Sea region. It is also important for the future of cohesion policy, because this is the main tool for achieving economic and social cohesion of the regions. We are for a strong Europe, we are for Bulgaria not to be on the periphery, but at the heart of Europe, as Prime Minister Borisov said. The focus of attention will be the scenarios proposed by Jean-Claude Juncker for the future of the European Union. Let us all actively contribute to proving that Bulgaria has its will to be a serious factor in making decisions about the future of Europe. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is a discussion that is continuing, therefore honourable Members, I call on you to support the decision proposed by the GERB parliamentary group. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u129	Thank you. The word asked Prime Minister Borisov, at your request, in fact. Right, Mr. Kutev?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u130	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I see that colleague Stoinev is angry with the right, because I am angry with the same. If I may, you asked the tone. I will say why, when you come out and say, "Thanks to us, the government adopted a decision a few days ago, as if we wouldn't have accepted it without you, the tone of debate became different. This part gets inflamed like you do and we start a... We'll lose an hour and a half and there'll be no debate. On Friday, if memory serves, with you there were other MPs from BSP, from DPS and from ours, we set an example in Stara Zagora, including the leader of the PES, how, by putting in real I think Tasco Ermenkov was, and others, not to miss, when we see a serious problem, and the problem is indisputable, although in your speech you have now slightly brought it in, as if we were not worried as you are about energy, but the whole truth is that we need a billion two hundred thirty-three million euros It's a huge sum! At the same time, you say the levels have increased. The levels for mercury and sulphur dioxide have increased. At the same time, another statement here says, on another day, of course, that the death of the Bulgarians is the greatest. Yeah, when mercury and sulphur dioxide fall out of the air, it certainly does. So I'm setting an example: when we are constructive and we all acknowledge that the problem exists, the problem will have to be solved by the cleansings in the TPPs. It doesn't matter if it's me or you in this chair. The problem is huge, and it concerns billions of investment for the couple, and for the other several power plants. So, if it makes sense, not to provoke us to respond in the same way to pass the time. It makes sense, and in the last few days you see, we have not stopped in both the Western Balkans and Turkey, and with the gas hub, in the morning with Borhardt things are going great, and will happen, things we have all worked on and we can bring them to a victory end, to a good end for the state. I would very much like the time left if we could actually talk about debates, because we're talking about a White Paper. There was a White Book back in the NDSV, I think. This White Paper gives themes for reflection. It has no real effect on us. Yes, many countries, especially the more powerful ones, who are angry with those who do not accept migrants, and otherwise accept billions of euros from European funds, are looking to get out of cohesion. Thanks to Bulgaria, the Roman Declaration was inserted into cohesion. Then President Radev was there, so thank you. In the March Roman Declaration or when it was March 25, namely cohesion is vital to us. But it's already working since that day, from Trieste, the Berlin Process. We have managed to bring Corridor No 8 between Skopje and Bulgaria, to go the accession, including Sofia, Belgrade, Sofia, Thessaloniki, Sofia, Skopje and this project, which we are currently working with Greece, respectively yesterday we announced it somewhere October, I think we will start at these ports. Let's waste our time now what the White Book says and which option... It's not important today! It's not going to be any of those options. [[Noise and lines.]] People write to each other! That's why I set an example. There are white books for one, white books... I do not know if we wrote a White Paper to GERB in one of the opposition mandates. Maybe we wrote too. Nothing bad. The truth is that it depends on the countries themselves. If we want to be at first speed, we need to attack the Eurozone's waiting room, fighting corruption, reforms, all that is done and done, cohesion policy to develop, the connectivity of the region to develop, and then we will be at first speed. It's up to us. If we don't want to go first, the others don't owe us. Now would we stop for Macedonia and say: until Macedonia reaches like us, or for example Montenegro, or Bosnia, Bulgaria will stand on this level and wait. We're not doing it! And what do we tell them? Work fast, make quick reforms to reach us, we will help you reach us, but do not slow us down! So I don't see the point here to... Yeah, we can philosophize. I'll assign, they'll write an analysis. There are letter people, you know, a lot of vectors from here, another vector from here, by September we'll have vectors on all lines. [[Noise, lines and laughter from GERB.]] In this case, we have a debate on the subject. Our priorities are how and how to sneak them in, find the only one in the Union so that we can take advantage of the time in which we will be in the Presidency. The Presidency is not to seize the power of the European Union, the Presidency is to synchronise the activities of the 27. Brexit is going to be a tough process. Before I came here, it was the British Minister, in the Council of Ministers. The only thing that is clear is that these knowledgeable and capable Bulgarians who work in the UK, they want to keep them. Because as a country, we've given a lot of money to train these doctors, these nurses, and they've already taken it. And our Bulgarian citizens work beautifully there. [[Replys from the BSP for Bulgaria: Export of national income.]] That's right. Well, you can debate here. Are we looking for consensus here? Should the state train you for six years and then leave without giving a dollar for it? Is that right?! And that's where we might be looking for consensus to talk about educating one, the other, the third. I respect Mr. Kutev. Life has been so reduced that for about ten years we've been standing across from each other, his proposal is right, to catch two or three subjects, to make sense that we've come. Otherwise we will drain the time, you will scream: "Thanks to us it is dawning, we will try to say that it has not dawned thanks to you. [[Applause from GERB.]] It won't make sense. Are we really at times when we are responsible, so I set an example with Mr. Stoinev on Friday and the other colleagues, there was no struggle. We knew there was a big problem waiting for us, we had to solve it. It's the same in energy, the same in other spheres. If you want it to make sense, let's stop thanking who what happened, and there are actually a few questions that we can solve and better protect them. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u131	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Once again, let me remind you of what you have asked and what we are talking about: what is the position of the Bulgarian government on the proposed options for future development of the European Union and what priority policies you will propose as Prime Minister of Bulgaria during the Presidency of the European Union on the White Paper - Mr Juncker, President of the European Commission, named it. That was the desire of BSP colleagues. [[Noise and lines.]] Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u132	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This debate makes sense, and not only if we focus on one question or another. These issues are discussed daily. And it was no accident that we didn't ask about the presidency. This issue is also discussed daily. The Presidency of Bulgaria is important, but it is six months. It will begin and end. I hope it starts well and ends successfully, and we will help with that. However, we have asked about the White Paper, and I would like to protect with just a few words our Solution Project. Analysis of the impact for Bulgaria of the different options will essentially represent a definition of the Bulgarian national interest within Europe. This will be for the first time and if you do it as a government, and we accept it as a parliament, then with the greatest pleasure, I and all my colleagues will say: thanks to you and our support [[shouts: "Eeeee!" by GERB.]] we have a position on how we want Europe to develop and we in it. Because the White Paper yes, it has no regulatory dimension, the Roman Declaration too, but these are important solutions, important steps of a process. This process is going on and only we here can decide whether we want to go with it, guide it, or just suffer its consequences. That is the question of today's debate. And I'm asking you to accept, after all, the second point of our decision. Thank you for having already fulfilled the first point. You have fulfilled it, but the second point has all the sense to do such an analysis, because it will help, including the debate led by President Juncker, which will take place in the European Parliament. Let the people of Europe also know that Bulgaria has a clear vision of where our common continent should go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u134	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen! The talk about the White Paper is a conversation about the future of Europe. This is also a conversation about Europe's security. In this respect Bulgaria should have its own position, its vision for security in Europe, the security of the Western Balkans and security in the Black Sea region. Within the European Union, NATO is a guarantee of our security and our safety. However, in the context of modern threats, Europe needs an additional guarantor. Europe needs to be itself a guarantor, the additional guarantor of its security. The creation of a European armed force could guarantee much greater security, greater independence both for the European Union and for each country individually. Terrorism. Unfortunately, the threat of terrorism is becoming a daily life for many of the countries today. However, if we are to combat this phenomenon effectively, increased coordination between services and sharing of information is needed. However, political will is needed for this. There is no need only for political actions of the kind of......................Je suis...... which serve only for political indulgence...................................................................... Politicians are not only responsible for the victims, they must show not only empathy, they must also show responsibility. A proper step in this direction would be to extend Europol's powers, because a wider exchange of information needs to be achieved from coordinating functions, especially in the new department dealing with counter-terrorism. Bulgaria should also insist on the European Union making its clear commitment to guarding the Bulgarian-Turkish border, which is its external border. If Ankara decides to direct the migratory flow, we, ladies and gentlemen, are not protected! The existing partition facility at the moment, it is not only passed by those who...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u135	What's the connection to the White Book you're asking about, the partition...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u136	They didn't decide to go through with it. This is part of the subject of security, it is part of the topic of the White Paper, ladies and gentlemen. You know very well that illegal migrants and refugees only learn about them after they crash on Bulgarian highways. Therefore, we must insist that the European Union has an active role to play in the protection of the Bulgarian Turkish border, because, regardless of the measures taken, which are still difficult to implement, the truth is that illegal immigration is a potential source of both organised crime and international terrorism. The texts in force in the Dublin Agreement are not good for Bulgaria. The changes that are being prepared in this Agreement for Bulgaria outline nothing better the quota principle does not work. Bulgaria must insist that the European Union has a more active role beyond its borders. This means to bring peace, not to bring out instability. Because if we don't bring peace, if we don't export stability, if we export, for example, weapons that, with our knowledge, fall into the hands of terrorists, we will...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u137	Yoncheva Hanım, Yoncheva Hanım!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u138	...we bring refugee waves, we will bring instability not only to Bulgaria, but also to the entire European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u139	Mrs. Yoncheva, you...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u141	...you ask the Prime Minister, and now you're exposing your views. The genre is different, you know? Besides that...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u142	This is part of the discourse for which the Prime Minister called for the future of Europe, and security is part of this future, Mr President. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Yoncheva. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Replices.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u144	Sure, anytime. [[Heckling]] It's the way it's supposed to be. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u145	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Ministers, colleagues! Mr. Glauchev, the first time, in the spirit of the constructiveness of this debate and the importance of the country, I did not get the right to lead.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u146	Who was it the first time?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u147	I would like to tell you that, in the second sentence, Mr. Glauchev, of colleague Dragomir Stoynev, who started essentially on the White Paper and the scenarios for the future of Europe, you made a remark to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u148	That he wasn't talking about the White Book, I made a remark!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u149	No, that's all he talked about in all of his speech. Every second sentence of my colleague, Elena Yoncheva, you make a remark to her. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] I want to tell you that when Ivelina Vassileva spoke here, at the ninth minute of her speech she started talking about the scenarios. He talks all the time about the presidency... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u150	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u151	...for the priorities and programme for the upcoming Presidency. Then you didn't say a word. We kept quiet. We have requested this debate, we have something to say about the Presidency. I know that your great fear is not to talk here about what is the readiness for this Presidency. [[Reply from Prime Minister Boyko Borisov.]] It will also be about the NDK, Prime Minister. Sooner or later, it's about NDK, about what's done and who's done what's not done there.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u152	Please take the lead, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u153	Therefore, Mr. Glauchev, please apply the same rules to all MPs here. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u154	I have the right to respond to you by procedure. On several occasions I remind you what your question is, although you should know it: what is the position of the Bulgarian government on the proposed options for the future development of the European Union and what priority policies... [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please, order in the hall, don't shout out loud! [[Sighs:]] ...and what priority policies will you propose as Prime Minister of Bulgaria during the Presidency of the European Council? That's what Mrs. Vassileva is talking about. Listen carefully, and the best thing to remember is the subject of questions. Mr. Prime Minister, do you still want me to... [[Replication by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. Loud noise and lines.]] A line? The way you're running it already has. A statement. [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]] If you'd like to make a statement, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u155	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers! My speech is about what Mrs. Yoncheva developed as the subject of the White Paper scripts and many things related to them, including security. The Western Balkans was part of the script in the White Paper. When it comes to the Western Balkans and security in the Western Balkans, I am interested to find out BSP and Mrs. Yoncheva are with the Treaty of Good Neighborhood and Friendship with Macedonia, or are they against it because their representatives...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u156	Please, Mr. Angelov, it has nothing to do with the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u157	On the contrary, it has something to do with this, because it was said that some of the scenarios in the White Paper also concern the security of the Western Balkans. So it is interesting for BSP to say once and for all whether it supports a treaty of good neighbourliness or is opposed to serving the interests of other countries, as their representatives do. Be a little more masculine and say it here, because this is an important topic. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u158	A line and a personal explanation. What do you want from all the procedures? [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Kostadinov.]] Speaking, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u159	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! My speech relates to the following: please, Prime Minister and Ministers, do not underestimate the detailed reading and detailed view of the White Paper. The debate on the White Book has only one goal. When Bulgaria had to present its priorities in connection with the Partnership Agreement of the Nine Horizontal Policies, Bulgaria stated the nine. Please make an effort. We will also help, as you can see, with everything we can, to make such a focus on our priorities, these three, four competitive advantages that Bulgaria can put on so that we can show a true reading of the White Paper. My request is that you do not underestimate this process. We, I see, are about to expose ourselves to the government in the way we speak, and the Prime Minister has noticed an inflamed environment. You may not know, but yesterday Mrs. Dukova declared you the greatest politician.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u160	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u161	This inflamed environment is the result of yesterday's speech. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u162	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any other statements? Mr. Prime Minister, come in. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u163	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I can't know what Dukova said yesterday. She has a different way of expressing herself. Even sometimes, I'm known for my modesty, I get uncomfortable talking. [[(Radio.) (Laughter)]] So I apologize if that's where the pressure started. Indeed, these two days I have made great efforts. Mrs. Yoncheva I want to support her in many of the things she said are also my things, especially for the European army. But I traveled with Spartana, as you loved, and it travels slowly and it is warm, and it buzzes very much for once, but otherwise it is more difficult, so we had to go from Trieste to Thessaloniki during the night. However, there is an increased interest in the Western Balkans anyway. Finally, the Berlin Process, in my opinion, started in Trieste after four meetings so far. Because when the Chancellors of Germany and Austria, the President of France and the Prime Minister of Italy are in the same place with Boris Johnson and the leaders of the six countries plus Bulgaria as a special guest, taking into account what we have done in the Balkans, I think there is a real chance that the Berlin process will become a reality in the Balkans. There are indeed many interests. The day before yesterday at the World Gas and Oil Congress, we also saw them from Turkey. The conflict that is emerging from the Cyprus conflict about Turkey-Greece's large gas field, a very innocuous conflict. The conflict that has it on the other side of Ukraine is Russia. Borhardt was the head of the department this morning. Europe is firmly behind our gas hub and I think that after today I am much more optimistic, after the talks in Istanbul, and today with Mr Borhardt, on our gas hub. This is a topic that I would very much like to share with both MPs from BSP and DPS and others because it can actually happen. Not only do they not surround us, we may now become a result of these conflicts, indeed the regional centre, to regain our positions. I would love to have a theme and a language here. Mrs. Yoncheva, this is the very truth that you and I are promoting and it makes no sense that we should not have armed European armed forces. Indeed, in order for them to be gone, there are other levers that are working, but more and more countries are starting to realize. Look at this in the last week - Turkey has decided to make an aircraft carrier. A few days before that, Britain launched an aircraft carrier, and yesterday Germany and France decided on carriers. One aircraft carrier is at least 20 billion. EUR or 60 billion euros only in the region. At all, our doctrine, not to go into other subjects, because that's what it's good for the military to tell us who we're actually protecting ourselves from and who we're going to fight. Because you see in Cyprus now, NATO is not in my opinion... let's not say that this will come out as a headline. NATO is a good thing, we are NATO countries [[crowd cheering, laughing]] But Europe has one thing in mind. Therefore, although it is still heresy now, but the more we talk about the European Armed Forces, so that we ourselves have our defence power, I think that usually two years somewhere is this period of thought..............................that after that you will become like with the refugee wave. We have all the guarantees of our colleagues in Turkey. The fact is that the pressure is almost zero, so I don't expect surprises from there. Now we're at the peak, when there should be the most migrants. You see one, three, a week ago we had a larger group, the Turks took it. The Greeks and I work well, we return everything. So basically, the safety facility, you correctly called it because it's a safety facility, it's to help possibly under pressure of the police and the army to keep them going. This is not a Berlin wall, nor is it like the Hungarian with electricity on it. We're a long way from thinking about it. So there are many topics on which Bulgaria with smart moves can move forward. The White Book. Again, it's not necessary, but if you're holding, we're assigning, we're doing a draft, we're analyzing, we're proposing vectors, we're presenting them September, and they're going to work a little bit. There's nothing wrong with that. They are such mutually exclusive options in it that you really need a very free piece of the options.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The truth in this White Paper is that we must not allow, first, Europe at two or more speeds and, secondly, cohesion to fall. From now on, if I write, give me these two points, as a conclusion I will... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Excuse me? [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) A line from the BSP for Bulgaria: It is not bad to have a solution of parliament.)]] Not bad, I'm promoting. [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria]] You're not in the mood because when you say you're in the middle of something, why are you going to piss them off?! [[Loud noise. Laughter. The line from BSP for Bulgaria: "Very sensitive".]] Well, they're sensitive! We're Democrats, an intelligent party. [[high laughter, applause]] And by hanging us like this, we get annoyed. How can they not be annoyed? [[Noise.]] That's why I'm here, and we're gonna do it. But they're the two conclusions we should finally have. Okay, thank you. I hope my colleague Tsvetanov comes home and Mrs. Ninova sits and a little calm... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] At least that's how I know from Tsvetanov that they get along more than I do with her. [[Laughter]] So you can find a good option. What Mrs. Yancheva said also has a lot of logic and meaning in it to support each other. Because on the subject of terrorism, too, you can see how we treat some countries where they are preparing to have death sentences, at the same time in Europe how many terrorists have been liquidated during the stocks?! So there are a lot of topics to talk about what's right and what's wrong. I hope in further debates we will be more rational. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u164	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. Are there any other statements? No. I'm closing the debate. I put the first vote to the vote: Project! DECISION in connection with the debate on the question No 754-05-21/05.06 2017 by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on the White Paper on the Development of Europe, proposed by Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly decided: The first point was proposed to drop out as it was executed. You withdraw the first point, I won't put her to the vote, and there's actually only one point left: He proposed to the Council of Ministers by 30 September 2017 to present an analysis of the effects for Bulgaria of the various development options of the European Union proposed in the White Paper on the future of Europe and the position of Bulgaria. Please vote. They voted 188 MPs: 88, against 19, abstention 81. The draft decision has not been adopted. Mr. Boychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm doing a re-voting procedure. From what I understand, the Prime Minister wanted to be given an opportunity...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u166	He is not taking part in the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u167	... the Bulgarian Parliament to support him in this decision. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u168	Thank you. Revoting procedure. They voted 190 MPs: for 89, against 80, abstention 21. The draft decision has not been supported. Project! DECISION in connection with the debate on question No 754-05-21/05.06. 2017 by National Representative Cornelia Ninova to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on a White Paper on the Development of Europe, proposed by Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Accepts the information presented by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov on the White Paper on the future of Europe. 2. The Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister to periodically present to the Committee on Foreign Policy up-to-date information on the development of the common European debate on the White Paper on the future of Europe. Please vote. They voted 188 MPs: for 103, against 49, abstention 36. The draft decision has been adopted. And the third. Project! DECISION in connection with the debate on questions No 754-05-21 of 5 June 2017 by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on the White Paper on the Development of Europe proposed by Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Council of Ministers shall, by 7 September 2017, present an analysis of the effects for Bulgaria of the various options for the development of the European Union proposed in the White Paper on the future of Europe and a draft position of Bulgaria. 2. The National Assembly shall, by 30 September 2017, discuss and adopt a Framework Position for a vision for the development of the European Union in accordance with the national interest of the Republic of Bulgaria. Please vote. Vote 184 MPs: 81 against 70, abstention 33. The draft decision has not been supported. [[Noise and lines.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with a question to Minister Nikolay Nankov from the National Representative Kolyo Yordanov Milev on a water treatment plant for drinking water. We continue with a question to Minister Nikolay Nankov from the National Representative Kolyo Yordanov Milev about the waste water treatment plant of Sliven, the renewal of the construction of the site. [[Noise and lines.]] Take your time, Mr. Milev, we'll wait for the colleagues who want to leave anyway. [[Noise and lines.]] You have the floor when things calm down. Please, fellow Members, please, who will remain at the questions and answers, take their seats, the rest of you leave the Chamber. A little more respect for the colleague who's on the stand!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u169	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister Nankov, Dear Members of the National Assembly! In September 2008, a contract was signed between the Consortium "Glavbolgarstroy" and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the construction of a drinking water treatment plant in Sliven. The contract is worth 34 million. BGN, as construction works were made by the autumn of next year and were paid somewhere around 30 million. lv. Unfortunately, just a month later, due to the lack of funds, the site is stopped and so far it has been frozen. We have tried in recent years both in the municipality of Sliven and through the Ministry to unfreeze the object and be finished, as citizens of the town of Sliven drink water with an increased content of manganese. My question to you is: do you plan soon to unveil the object and proceed to its completion, as this is a vital problem for the city of Sliven? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u170	Thank you, Mr. Milev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u171	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Milev, the drinking water treatment plant for the town of Sliven was designed in the 1980s to purify the drinking water provided for the city by the dam of Asenovets. During the long period of construction of the facility, which began in 1987, construction has been stopped repeatedly, and the project has been changed several times since changes in the regulations, a change in the qualities of raw water, i.e. water from the water source, a reduction in the population of the town of Sliven and industrial production in the city, which has respectively reduced water consumption during those years. In the period 2008 - 2009, the construction was renewed, as you mentioned, in which a large part of the construction works were completed, but due to the lack of funding in 2009 the construction was stopped. To date, the treatment plant is almost fully constructed. In order to put the site into operation it is necessary to build external plumbing connections of the drinking water treatment plant with the existing water supply network of the city. The Ministry's budget in recent years provides funds for the completion of a drinking water treatment plant, Sliven, on an annual basis, but their spending is hampered by a number of problems, I suppose, you are familiar as a former mayor of Sliven municipality with them, related, much of which, with regulating the relationships between the participants in the investment process, outstanding construction papers and mandatory complete assembly of the building documentation. At the beginning of 2016 the Ministry commissioned the preparation of regional pre-investment surveys and application forms for European funding for the separate territories of 14 water and water operators, including for the separate territory of the city of Sliven. In the regional pre-investment study there was also an investigation and a technical and economic comparison of different options of water supply schemes and an optimal solution for the inclusion of a drinking water treatment plant is proposed for the town of Sliven to the water supply system of the settlement. The investment measures for the selected option will be included in the regional water supply project, which will apply for funding under the Operational Programme "Environment 2014" "2020." The application form will be ready in the autumn of this year, providing for the design and construction activities of the external plumbing connections to start after the award, there may be appeal in 2019. Remaining construction activities for the completion of the drinking water treatment plant will be financed by the state budget. The Drunken Water Cleaning Station, the city of Sliven, can be put into operation after building the external connections I mentioned, carrying out all the tests on the station and including it into the city's water supply system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u172	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Milev, you have an opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u173	Thank you, Mr. Minister! I understand that the project activities have been completed 100% and there is no longer a problem to begin the construction of this induction plumbing from the water supply to the treatment plant, from the treatment plant to a tank of 10 thousand, which also needs to be built, and then to be connected with the city's water supply network. I do not like the fact that somewhere around 10 million, perhaps up to 15 million are needed to complete the treatment plant, and this is planned in a further period by 2019 We cannot accept that another four or five years will wait to find the means to complete the station. I ask you, in the fastest way, as they say, to allocate these initial funds so that the site can be unserved and to begin its completion. Also, how many million have been spent by stopping it so far to maintain the site by security companies? Are you going to terminate the contract with Glavbolgarstroy and a new order will be executed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u174	Thank you, Mr. Milev. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to further develop the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Milev, the fact is that the project, when it started 2008, did not include the external plumbing. We have commented on it many times with you and with other mayors of Sliven Municipality a monument of stupidity. It's a drinking water treatment station without plumbing. Sorry, it's not serious. In this regard, I mentioned 2017, November "This was in response to a question from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov as a whole about the water projects. "We will have a ready application form for the new pre-investment study. How much faster can we assign him? 2017, this year, we're assigning construction to the plumbing. It can't go without a contract if that's what you're trying to call my responsibility. He's gonna have to go through a public procurement. The resource is available, i.e. the funding is provided under Operational Programme "Environment". With these rates of progress within these two months, the end of October is four months left until the application form is prepared and announced by the Water and Water and Water, Sliven, the public procurement, I think is an absolutely normal term. Nine or ten years hasn't done anything, you want us to build it in four months. No, we'll announce within four months the public procurement will run, a contractor will be selected and the plumbing will be built so that the treatment plant can be connected to the town of Sliven. Apart from that, the fact is that the state currently spends resources on security of the site. This year it should be and accepted.. I am talking about the treatment plant. After quite minor disputes with the contractor, you quoted him as who he was, from the general technical documentation, to be able to accept the site, to hand him over to management and management of the water supply, Sliven, to finish, I mentioned with what source and by what time, and the project for the future plumbing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u176	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Nankov is from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Violeta Jeleva and Nikola Dinkov. It refers to the Project "Cascade Vucha". Here you are, you have the floor for the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u177	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The actuality of the question we are asking is related to the problem of the supply of drinking water to the population of Haskovo region, and the town of Haskovo in particular. It is known that there is a Project called under the code name, if I may say so, "Cascade Vucha" which has been somewhere since the mid-'80s. It envisions the construction of water services in the Rhodopes, which is known as the "Cascade Vucha" and besides for industrial needs, the water to reach Plovdiv, Parvomay and Haskovo, and according to some of our data almost to the region of Svilengrad. It is also known that surface water has better drinking qualities than deep water, as it does not pass through layers to further contaminate it. It is known that about ten years ago the project was updated in its part near Plovdiv and its construction price then, in modern construction events, is not so high. This is why our question is as follows: do you think that the project with the title "Cascade Vucha" which determines the reaching of water from the Rhodopes and from the region of the town of Devin Krichim, to the region of Haskovo, Svilengrad, passing through Plovdiv, is relevant? Do you think it could be one of the major projects for the Republic of Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u178	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u179	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yordanov, the idea of the water supply of the town of Plovdiv and the area around Plovdiv, of course, from the dam The Ministry doesn't have the project. The old project, by the way, the paperwork's gone missing, not in the Ministry. During this period for the population and for the industry, given the type of production, huge amounts of water were needed, speaking of time. In 2005 the question of using the water from the dam is raised again. In 2005 the town development programme for the period 2005 - 2013 was a priority for Plovdiv Municipality Development Plan for the construction of the water supply system of the city of Plovdiv. In 2009 an Idea project for the water supply of the city of Plovdiv and twenty-two settlements of the stunt was developed in this regard, which was not included for the construction of tanks and guides to the adjoining settlements. In 2014 the Regional Master Plan, the so-called "Master Plan" for the territory, is in detail the site of the project "Vodiv" by the stunt "Vucha" in which are already included the construction of tanks and water mains to the twenty-two settlements of the district of Plovdiv. We are talking about Plovdiv district here. The regional plan did not address the hypothesis that the water from the stunt "Vacha" to reach Dimitrovgrad and Haskovo, respectively to Haskovo region. The value of the project was set indicatively at 386 million. lv. for these twenty-two settlements, a water pipeline, a stunt "Vacha" and the connections with them, and it does not include funds for the construction of the sanitary security zone of the dam "Vucha" because it will be used for drinking water supply, nor measures for the construction of sewerage for the disposal of waste water and their purification from sites leaving the dam. This is only for the infrastructure, Project "Cascade Vucha" with plumbing, which will connect the settlements respectively to the site. Two projects will be implemented in the city of Plovdiv with funds from the Operational Programme "Environment 2014" - an early project that is currently under way and a regional project in which investments are determined on the basis of a regional research for the territory of Plovdiv district. On the basis of the studies, existing water resources have been found to be sufficient for the water supply of drinking water settlements. Especially for the city there is no shortage of water, despite economic and demographic forecasts for its increase, respectively, and the expansion of industrial production, except for some cases during very hot summer months in some of the small settlements in the district. At the same time, population growth is negative for the whole area, except, I mentioned the city where the mechanical is positive based on negative natural growth. The regional pre-investment research will finance projects for water supply, drainage and treatment of waste water, which will reconstruct water supply, inland plumbing and sewerage networks, measures relating to the energy efficiency of the specific company will be implemented if we are talking about pumping water and, respectively, pumps to be replaced. The main objective of the developed regional water projects is to achieve compliance with the European directives in the field of drinking and waste water, technical, environmental and financial sustainability of the water sector, in line with the social tolerance of the cost of water. If I have to conclude, the necessary amount of 384 million. The lev, which I mentioned, will not be enough for the whole implementation of the project. I mentioned what activities were not calculated by the idea project. It can be seen as an alternative only in the form of some other private partnership, which could generate within it perhaps a larger project in which there is also a hydroenergy part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u180	Thank you, Mr. Minister. That was the answer. Mr. Yordanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u181	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I see that you do not deny the implementation of this Project lightly. Yes, the price is something that is quite high, but for a republican project, a European basic project, I would say, the central European region of Bulgaria, the price is not so impressive. However, the benefit of it is impressive because, you see, what psychosis has become in the town of Haskovo. The same psychosis was in Parvomay, in Rakovsky. With one such project, we would do prevention of the problems that are happening. When you use something that's more environmentally friendly, more modern, of course it pays a little higher price. I think this project can be implemented and we will do our best to push the individual stages to make it happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u182	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. The next question to Minister Nankov is from the MP Yavor Bozhankov about the state of third-class main road II-53 Polykraishte Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! The state of the road Polykraishte "Primamics" Gorna Oryahovitsa is an extremely bad problem for years. The problem is also the bridge that connects the village to the railway town, so the local population recently organized a protest. In this context, the municipal administration Gorna Oryahovitsa has spread information that a comprehensive rehabilitation project has been drawn up, including the bridge under the Operational Programme for Cross-border Cooperation between Bulgaria and Romania 2014 In this regard, I address you with the following questions: is funding provided for overall rehabilitation? Within what deadlines will the implementation start and what activities are planned for the prepared project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u184	Here you are, Mr. Secretary. You heard the question, you have an opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bojankov! Second-class road II-53: This is the entire route of the second-class road and is located in the territory of four districts: Veliko Tarnovo, Sliven, Yambol and Burgas. On the territory of Veliko Tarnovo the road is about 72 km long. On the Polykraishte district, Gorna Oryahovitsa, a major renovation has not been done for more than 30 years. The condition of the road is unsatisfactory especially in the village of Parvomaytsi. The reason is the poorly executed restoration works on the pavement in the construction of the village's plumbing and sewer network, to be honest. In 2016 was developed a Technical project for major renovation of the project "Rehabilitation" and partial reconstruction, according to the specific position No 5 of the site "Patio II-53 Polykraishte" Elena "Sliven" on several sections in the districts of Veliko Tarnovo and Sliven, one of which is the one between Polykraishte "Primarymitsa" - Gorna Oryahovitsa, passing through the urbanized territory of the village of Parvomajtsi and including the "Aleksandrovski Bridge" before the town of Gorna Oryahovitsa. The Road Infrastructure Agency is applying jointly with Romanian partners to finance the rehabilitation of the "Pat II-53 Polykraishte" - Primordials - Gorna Oryahovitsa" under the Interreg V-A Romania Cross-border Cooperation Programme 2014 - 2020 This is one of the six projects, about an hour ago I answered for another similar project, in which we applied and will be funded under the Interreg V-A Joint Programme between Bulgaria and Romania. At the moment an evaluation of the submitted project proposals is being carried out, the results of which are expected to be announced at the beginning of August 2017. I hope that after about a month we will have completed the work of the evaluation committee, after which the procedure is the following: a meeting of the Secretariat is convened to approve the projects and the final procedure is a decision of the Monitoring Committee between the Bulgarian and Romanian countries. Under this programme, our Ministry is a partner body, leading the Romanian side, as well as with the Greek program. All efforts are made, of course, to develop a high-level project proposal and comply with the application requirements of the Programme. The project is a rehabilitation of the existing road, which will improve the carrying capacity of the pavement, the drainage of the road, the limiting systems of the road, horizontal and vertical signalling. The bridge between Parvomajtsi and Gorna Oryahovitsa is also intended for rehabilitation in the approved technical project of the site. The indicative value of the object is BGN 4 680 000. with VAT. According to the rules of the Programme, the application is carried out in two stages. The application of an application for interest and the submission of an application form by the candidates approved at the first stage. I mentioned what was the procedure a minute ago, about the approval and implementation of the project. We are ready to announce the tender procedures for selection of construction or supervision as soon as the financing contract is signed. This is where I can open the clamp. This is what my colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency have prepared. We can now subject the procurement to save time until the approval of the draft proposal by the Joint Monitoring Committee of the Cross-border Programme. In the meantime, the road is being cared for under the Programme on the current repair and maintenance by the Agency of Road Infrastructure and in 2015 and 2016 many palliative repairs have been carried out in the area in question. On 28 June this year began repairing the asphalt flooring with a solid asphalt mixture with a thickness of up to 5 cm. in the section between the village of Polykraishte and the town of Gorna Oryahovitsa, the toughest part of the road, including the territory of the village of Parvomaytsi. I've been reported this morning that within the week's end, this renovation, which is ongoing, at the toughest precinct, will be over. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u186	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Bojankov, in the form of a replica you can take attitude to the given answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u187	Dear Minister, thank you for the clarification, as the local population has been under the impression that rehabilitation has already been agreed and it will happen. Good luck to you. I hope everything on the project goes smoothly. It is very important both for safety and for the peace of the residents in the village. I would like to draw your attention to a few things when you prepare the project. The bridge itself, which connects the city, in my opinion, and according to the local population, is not fit for rehabilitation, but needs to be replaced. He shouldn't stay. It is very old, its foundations are in the river and it is the main reason for the village to be flooded because, when the river is more watery, it plays the role of a dam. I've prepared some pictures of the floods in the village and the unblocking of the bridge. I'll show them to you and you'll understand why this bridge is not fit for repair and expansion. We have to think about this very seriously. He'll always be trouble. You mentioned in your explanation about the construction of the sewers in the village. According to the local population, the infrastructure after the implementation of this project was in a much heavier state than it was before. It wouldn't be a bad idea to think about the responsibility of the company that worked on the sewer project because I've never heard of two opinions before. Infrastructure is in worse condition after the implementation of this project. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u188	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Mr. Secretary? There is nothing to add to this answer. The next question to you is from the MPs Violeta Zheleva and Nikola Dinkov on the Targeted Investment Programme in support of the development of Northwestern Bulgaria, the Rhodopes, Strandzha Sakar, border, mountain and semi-mountain regions. Mrs. Jeleva, you will develop the question..........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u189	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, The Targeted Investment Programme in support of the development of Northwestern Bulgaria, the Rhodopes, Strandzha Sakar, the border, mountain and semi-mountain regions is repeatedly confirmed commitment to the development of Bulgaria. Eight are the municipalities of Haskovo region falling within this Programme. In the region of Rodopi are seven municipalities: Haskovo, Mineral Baths, Harmanli, Stambolovo, Lyubimets, Madzharovo, Ivaylovgrad, Strandja District, Sakar municipality, Topolovgrad municipality. The programme aims to overcome the economic backwardness of these areas. It was submitted for discussion as early as 2015, but has not really started at this time. It is necessary to update and begin the implementation of the Strategy, otherwise the areas that are struggling are depopulated and rather than shortening the distance with the more developed areas, it becomes even more dramatic and catastrophic. The problem is not only income and infrastructure, but access to education, culture and healthcare. Special attention should be paid to small remote municipalities whose depopulation contributes to these problems. For the implementation and implementation of the Programme as a whole for 2017 and 2018 the investment part does not provide for such funds and is not declared as planned. Dear Minister, in this regard, my question to you is: what are the reasons why it has not started the implementation of the Targeted Investment Programme? How do you see in time the beginning of its implementation, in particular the regions of "Rodopi" and "Strandzha" Sakar? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer the question from the MPs Violeta Zheleva and Nikola Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Jeleva! The developed Project for Targeted Investment Programme in support of the development of Northwestern Bulgaria, the Rhodopes, Strandzha Sakar, the border, mountain and semi-mountain regions contains four sub-programmes with common priority areas. The first is a Stimulation of the economy.The second is a Strengthening of human resources.The third is a Renewing of infrastructure systems and risk prevention.The fourth is a Balanced spatial development through cross-border cooperation. The financial framework of the Programme has been developed for the period 2017 - 2025. For its overall implementation it is necessary to provide additional funds in the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works in total at a sum of 1 295 576,3 thousand. BGN, according to the possibilities of the state budget for the year in question. That's how the program was accepted. The sub-programme "Rodopi" is intended to start in 2019 with the implementation of the priorities: "Plano insurance for growth and development of the region" and "Renewing equipment and training programmes in vocational schools, promoting employment and promoting third. Since 2020, the implementation of the priorities is envisaged: New investments in industrial parks, in market infrastructure and in networks of processing enterprises; Agrarian sector is called the restoration of traditional productions, organic farming, the Tutun has no alternative. In third place, "Tourism' is an investment in infrastructure, socialization and valorisation of cultural and natural heritage, creation and marketing of a regional tourism product in the tourist region "Rodopi', as well as measures under Objective 2 "Strengthening of human resources and administrative capacity'. Objective 3 (Renewal of infrastructure systems and risk prevention) as well as in Objective 4 which I referred to as "Balanced spatial development through cross-border cooperation." The sub-programme "Strandzha" is expected to start in 2019 with the implementation of the priorities: "Planovo insurance for growth and development of the region" and "Supporting of human resources and administrative capacity." In 2020 it is planned to start two stages, as well as the sub-programme "Rodopi". The implementation of the priorities: New investments in industrial parks, in market infrastructure, in networks of processing enterprises and certification laboratories; Agricultural sector "Resourced vegetable production," extended long-term crops and organic farming, supported livestock production; and priority Tourism "Infrastructural investments," socialization and valorization of cultural and industrial heritage in the course of approved marketing of the tourism product The project of Targeted Investment Programme has undergone a coordination procedure by the Council of Ministers and its administration in November 2016. The programme has not started so far, as you have rightly noticed, due to a lack of approved funding. What more serious argument than this?! At the beginning of March 2017, the Ministry of Finance received an opinion during the service cabinet that the approach to economic recovery should be implemented with priority specific and not horizontal measures regarding the impact on human capital in areas covered by the Programme. It will continue the discussion of the Targeted Investment Programme with stakeholders in order to prioritise measures and specific projects which will lead to the resolution of the issues related to the quality of the workforce and human resources in the long term. At the next stage, following a study of support for the areas received under the operational programmes, the parameters of project proposals for national funding in line with the objectives of the Targeted Investment Programme will be outlined and defined as a specific focus on the development of human resources. The funds under the guidelines provided by the Ministry of Finance will be relied on under the budgetary procedure for the relevant year, according to the state budget capabilities and in accordance with the implementation of the parameters of the consolidated fiscal programme. I hope that the debate on the new budget forecast and the budget in 2018 will start very soon and that we will receive support in this intention in order to realise at least some of the measures set out in the Targeted Investment Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u192	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u193	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! There are many events in this Programme and funding must be done through the national budget and through the European programmes. You mentioned funding from the national budget, but you did not mention European programmes. As far as infrastructure projects are concerned in these regions, I think their main implementation should take place under European programmes. In answers to many questions you refer to the.... in growth........................ in growth............................................................... In addition to the infrastructure development of these areas in order to stop depopulation, the cruel demographic crisis, there are many events at which we are waiting to receive an answer for their decision. For example, medical care in these areas. I know this is not a priority of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, but it is nevertheless mentioned for mobile groups, for mobile pharmacies. People are waiting for this matter to be resolved. Investment in agriculture, the measures to be taken in order for investments to take place in these areas to provide employment and people to really feel the action of this Programme. I am waiting from you, however, for what sites will be set for the municipalities included in the Programme under the European programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u194	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. Mr. Minister, would you care to comment on your reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Dinkov, what you said in a reply sounds really wonderful, but you know how impossible it is, if you know the programming process that is related to the absorption of European funds and planning, as is the process of preparing the Targeted Investment Programme. Of course, European funds under the Operational Programme "Regions in growth" or under the Rural Development Programme are available on the basis of the programmed in 2012 - 2013 in order to be able to be approved in 2014 and to work on both programmes that are both regional and regional. Part of the projects in the Targeted Investment Programme, which subsequently, as it was developed two years after the programming period, to be implemented and implemented with European funds, are included in the targeted investment programmes, which fall within the documents of the municipalities Be assured that the European resource, for me personally, is well programmed during this programming period, is not a panacea for all pain and could hardly contribute to solving all problems. That is why it is the new instrument, as the Targeted Investment Programme is new as an approach and as an instrument model and document for the implementation of an adequate regional policy. It must be filled with financial content, which I have also called upon the honourable Members to ask this question, I suppose you will support the parameters that will be set in the budget in 2018 in this direction, as the non-realisation at present and the non-starting of individual projects under these objectives, on the priorities set out in the Programme, is due precisely and only because of the lack of accumulated financial resources. The fact that some of the projects overlap with the activities and measures set out in the Targeted Investment Programme, with the measures, with the activities and projects to be implemented under the Operational Programme Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u196	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works is from the National Representative Donka Simeonova. It's about building the tunnel under Shipka Peak. Here you go, Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u197	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! I ask again about the construction of a tunnel under Shipka peak, although it has repeatedly sounded from the National Assembly stands. I am putting it because the question of dozens of people in the Stara Zagora region is posed to all admissions of lawmakers and they ask: will we finally have a tunnel under Shipka peak? Undoubtedly the construction of the tunnel under Shipka has great significance for the residents of the districts of Gabrovo, Stara Zagora, Veliko Tarnovo, so it has its national importance because it would be a good link between North and South Bulgaria. As it can also be part of the Trans-European Corridor No 9, it also has its European importance. Perhaps that is why the project for the construction of a tunnel under Shipka peak is part of the election programs of the political party GERB and is a priority of the three governments of Mr. Borisov. To a question by the MP Mr. Kiril Dobrev in the Forty-third National Assembly on the construction of the bypass of the town of Gabrovo and the tunnel under the peak of Shipka, then Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Mr. Donchev replied that on 8 September 2016. The answer is from this date, the bypass route of the town of Gabrovo and the tunnel under Shipka peak are built in two phases, the tunnel is included in phase two and at this stage is at the level of preparation of a preliminary project. I ask you a question, Dear Minister: at this stage, the project for the construction of a tunnel under Shipka peak is at what stage? What are the deadlines for its implementation and are the funds provided? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. Mr. Minister, obviously there are no minor questions for you. You're welcome to answer another difficult question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, dear Mrs. Simeonova! Yes, there will be a tunnel under Shipka. Not because it is only a priority in the election but subsequently in the management program of GERB, but because it is vital. You mentioned the "Travel Corridor" as part of Transport Corridor No 9, and as the fastest link that will be made between North and South Bulgaria in its central part. The project for the tunnel under Shipka peak is strategically important for the country. It is one of the priorities set out in the Draft Government Management Programme 2017. Its construction will facilitate the transport flows in the direction of North South and will help to overcome the imbalance in the economic development of Northern and Southern Bulgaria. It will also improve the transport connectivity of the main roads of Ruse "Veliko Tarnovo" "Shipka" "Stara Zagora" "Svilengrad" "Makazaza" and "Oryahovo" "Sevlievo" "Sevlievo" "Shipka" "Svilengrad" "Makasa" and will activate Bulgaria's trade relations with Greece and Romania and the entire Eastern and Central part of Europe with the Middle East. The tunnel under Shipka peak is part of the project "Travel of the town of Gabrovo" which is divided into five stages and is implemented in two phases. Phase one includes the construction of stages 1 to 4 with a total length of 23 km 555 mm and the preparation of an extended project for tunnel under Shipka peak. At present significant progress has been made as the indicative deadline for completion of the construction and installation works of the site is September 2018. A clamp will only open: to have a similar object implemented, such a project. a tunnel under Shipka peak, it is normal to have the smallest project. There will then be a work project, there will be a construction permit and then we will proceed to construction. Phase two includes the construction of stage 5 of the project with a total length of 5548 km of new road construction and covers the tunnel below Shipka peak with a length of 3 220 km. The progress in Phase 2. The specific and answer to your question is as follows: According to the application forms for the financing of the project "Browsing of the town of Gabrovo" was developed an analysis of the costs and benefits and the value of the project amounted to 520 million. lv. with VAT. Decision of 3 April 2012 was issued under the EIA procedures. The establishment procedures are completed for the main route. After the development of the tunnel project under Shipka peak, it will be clarified whether the additional alienations for the pre-portal sites of the tunnel will be necessary. When we have an ideal project, we will be answered to the question of us as well as you. The tunnel was commissioned to develop an advanced project, we mentioned it three times. The purpose of the development includes extensive geological and hydrogeological studies, carrying out detailed geological filming in tunnel portal areas, developing solutions of systems related to the operation of the tunnel, ventilation, lighting, water supply and fire protection, road alarms, television control, telephone system, total power supply, central dispatch point. Completion of the development of the Idea Project phase one. In the process of preparation is an expanded project phase two. Given the importance of the project of the tunnel under Shipka peak, as an important transport communication in the direction of "Northern................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That's the last possible option. The provision of long-term funding through the introduction of an electronic system Apart from this, we have a hypothesis that some of the funds for the highway "Struma" should be redirected to Northern Bulgaria if there, for objective reasons independent of the government and of the possible complaints of eco organisations, could stop, at least delay the process and go beyond the eligibility of the funds under the Operational Programme "Transport" so that these funds could be directed to the tunnel under Shipka, but certainly within the current mandate we will launch the realization of the tunnel itself. We're going to finish the first four Phase One stages I mentioned. The most important part is the Tour of Gabrovo with the tunnel facility 550 m and with a heavy bridge facility that is currently being strengthened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u200	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Come in for a cue, Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! I want to assure you that we will continue to monitor the development of the tunnel project under Mount Shipka, even more so that for 120 years we have been building this tunnel. You know, I guess in 1897 the ninth National Assembly unanimously decided to have a tunnel under Shipka peak, only then a railway tunnel, and not one and two governments used this idea. However, really the governments of GERB accept it as a priority and we are happy about it. The first two governments of Mr. Borisov were looking for all kinds of opportunities from the EU funds, from the Operational Programme "Transport" from investors, from the state budget. Unfortunately, the tunnel under Shipka was not built. You know, last year the media even convinced us that in July 2017 we would open a tunnel under Shipka peak. So, as you said, in the political program of GERB party is written in section "Regional policy" in point 4, which is for safe and modern infrastructure, for the construction of the tunnel under Shipka peak. Dear Minister, we very much hope and express the dream of thousands of people to have a tunnel under Mount Shipka. And not to be and not to remain, unfortunately, just one PR action. Please let the next election program be included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u202	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. Mr. Minister, do you have anything to add? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mrs. Simeonova! Yeah, keep an eye on us when we're slow, keep up with the work. And Deputy Prime Minister Donchev is following us about the specific object and the fact is that it will be difficult. You can see that his design readiness is now at 90 percent and more percent complete. The tour will be completed in 2018 in my opinion. Life and health, I then think we will start the award. We have made a commitment to the award of the construction itself. Until then, we must have a ready-made project with a building permit. I suppose it will be an engineering award with a redesign of work design plus construction, so we also hope and make an immense effort, believe me, within a full mandate to implement the project. Colleagues from Lovech region, for example, I am also from Lovech region, will ask why the Troyan tunnel is not built, as even more central. Colleagues from Vidinska or Sofia region will ask about the tunnel under Petrohan, for example, as part of Transport Corridor No 4. The fact is that in the SIV economy, if you go back in time.. 60% of the transit load flowed along the 9th Transport Corridor.. Helsinki. St. Petersburg; Danube Bridge through Ruse and from there already through the Pass of the Republic, the location can be either to Thessaloniki or Istanbul along the Transport Corridor No 9. Currently about two thirds of this transit load is passing through Transport Corridor No 10. However, to revive the freight traffic along the Ninth Transport Corridor so I have mentioned, and you know even better than I do the benefits, not just local, regional, but national and supranational ones from the development of this site. Taking into account these objective facts, indeed several governments back in time, you have put me back in time, even then the idea of the tunnel under Shipka was generated, but indeed for some ten years it has been working extremely actively. Such are the deadlines in the investment process. Our goal is to relieve them in the future, but indeed with the basic commitment that the tunnel under Shipka should be built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u204	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the MPs Ivan Nikolov Mihovski and Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev regarding existing problems with the water supply of sites, rest stations and hotels, guest houses and other in the villa zone village of Chiflik, Troyan municipality. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u205	Dear Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Our question is about existing problems with the water supply of sites and rest stations, hotels, guest houses and others in a villa zone in the village of Chiflik, Troyan municipality. Dear Minister, we are addressing you regarding information about existing problems with the water supply of sites, rest stations, hotels, guest houses and others in the villa area in the village of Chiflik, Troyan municipality and the lack of water supply from the municipal water company. Some of the hotels in the village of Chiflik have been granted permits for private drinking-bit water supply from the Swimming Directorate of the Danube Region, but it is not clear how drinking water is decided for the other sites. In this regard, our questions are as follows: firstly, how and will the question of drinking and domestic water be solved at sites located in the village of Chiflik, hotel complexes, guest houses, villas and others? And the second question is: how have they been built and obtained construction permits in accordance with the requirements of the Law on Construction in the Area, sites for which drinking water is not provided by the water operator or by the order of the Water Act, self-drinking water supply? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u206	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u207	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vassilev, village of Chiflik is located in the municipality of Troyan, I assume you know, the water and sewer services are provided entirely by the municipal company Water and sewerage. According to the legislation in force in the water sector, the provision of water services in the separate territory of the water and water water services must comply with the provisions of the Water Act and the Water Services Regulation Act. Since only the municipality of Troyan has owned water systems within the boundaries of the separate territory, I stress that the management is carried out by the Municipal Council of the town of Troyan. The Municipal Council shall adopt a programme for the development of water supply and sewerage on the territory of the municipality, in accordance with the plans for river basin management, the Strategy for the Development and Management of Water and Sewerage in accordance with the municipal development plan and the Programme for the Implementation of the Municipal Development Plan of the Municipality of Troyan. For the provision of water services within the municipality of Troyan, the operator of the municipality of Stonyetjesthetos Ltd., the city of Troyan uses the assets of public municipal property and the water infrastructure must be constructed in accordance with the legal provisions in order to ensure the protection of the health of the population and to prevent pollution of the environment. The prices of the water service on the territory are offered by the municipal company Water and Water Regulatory Commission with its business plan and with the approval of the Commission for energy and water regulation. In view of the foregoing, it should be borne in mind that investment intentions within the municipality of Troyan, including hotels, guest houses and villas, are agreed by the water company, namely in order to ensure the possibility of providing an adequate, normal, lawful water service. Grants for their construction, on the other hand, shall be issued by the municipal administration. There are no sites of national and regional importance here on the territory of the village of Chiflik, and it should have indicated which public water infrastructure the connection of the properties will take place and whether the sites are guaranteed continuous water supply and safe drinking water meeting the standards. Under the Bulgarian legislation, it is unacceptable, again thick, I stress: it is unacceptable to build a private private infrastructure for providing water services, which is the case at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u208	Thank you, Mr. Minister- You have a line, Mr. Vassilev, come in!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u209	Thank you for your answer, Minister! I just want to clarify. The District Attorney's office of Troyan has been referred to. No. 3501 of 2017 and District Prosecutor's Office of Lovech. There's a grievance of four persons who have applied documents. They have notified the Commission of energy and water regulation. There is an inquiry, and there is a reply from 27 June 2017. I will read to you what is the Commission's response for energy and water regulation: In the absence of definitive protocols for the distribution of the ownership of public water assets in a separate territory of the water and water sector, it cannot be clarified whether the management of the water systems should be implemented in accordance with art. 198b, t. 2 of the Water Act this is the Association of Water, or under the order of art. 198b, t. 3 from the municipal council of the municipality of Troyan. If there are public government assets in the separate territory of the district of Lovech and the mayor of the municipality of Troyan to choose a water operator and to conclude with it a contract for the management, maintenance and operation of the water systems and facilities, as well as the provision of the water services to consumers for payment, should be established in the separate territory of the district of Lovech and the mayor of the municipality of Troyan. I think the state should intervene in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u210	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Here you are, Minister. I see you have an addition to the answer. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u211	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vassilev! Really grateful to you for introducing me to the response of the competent investigative institutions. Therefore, I made a big point in my reply to the case that the infrastructure is only public-municipality. On the territory of the settlement we have no public government property, so there is no hypothesis. Here the only competent body by law is the municipal council, which in the service of the settlements by the municipal water operator plays the role of the Association of Water and Water. It is good that you have also signaled the Ministry, for which we will also carry out an inspection, we will be sufficiently far-reaching in our powers. In fact, we have prepared a signal to refer to the competent institutions, responding even in an announcement of what you have just read that there is no hypothesis in this case. I repeat, we are talking about public-municipal property and, of course, we will refer to the competent authorities in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u212	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the MP Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov on the rehabilitation of road II-37 Pazardzhik Here you go, Mr. Mladenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u213	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, through the territory of Pazardzhik District passes route II-37. In the section from Panagyurishte to Pazardzhik in the past years, rehabilitation has been carried out. After the floods in 2005 and the partial destruction of the section of the Cave of Batak, a project was made by the Road Infrastructure Agency in 2007, 2008 and 2009 and construction works were carried out on it, building a number of support walls, changing boards, partly laying asphalt. In 2014, at our request, a project was drawn up with which the section from Pazardzhik to Batak, with the exception of the section in Peshtera, was to be included in the Operational Programme. The poor condition of the section makes it difficult for the transport link from Eastern Bulgaria to the region and especially the opportunities for the development of the economy and tourism in the municipalities in the district of the municipalities, which are rich in cultural historical heritage and natural resources. Mr. Minister, my question is: is this important for the population of Pazardzhik District Road included Pazardzhik Peshtera in the Operational Programme and will there be funds for rehabilitation?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u214	Thank you, Mr. Mladenov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u215	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mladenov, Pazardzhik Road, the Peshtera Peshtera, with a length of 30.5 km is part of the Republican road II-37 and is located on the territory of Pazardzhik District. Ongoing repair and maintenance in 2016 in this section were carried out activities worth 111 thousand. lv. with VAT, including alignment and filling of banquets, trench cleaning, pavement patching, landscaping, landscape shaping and road marking. In 2017, there was a patching of 3,500 square meters of asphalt flooring, clean trenches, and mowing of lawns, cutting of shrubs. About the initial section of the town of Peshtera and near the town of Batak, 18.1 km long, you mentioned, in 2007, a rehabilitation contract was concluded worth almost 17.7 million. lv. with VAT. The funding is provided under a repair program of the Road Infrastructure Agency. Activities were carried out in the section in the regulation of the town of Peshtera and 4 km after it in the direction of the town of Batak. Traffic safety has been ensured. Maintenance activities shall be carried out in the section each year, in accordance with the budgetary resources available. The rest of the 8 km-long site remains incomplete due to the exhausted financial resource under the Programme and in 2010 the work on the site stopped by Act Model 10. The contractor has been paid funds of a small amount of over 12 million. lv. with VAT for certified activities. It is necessary to update the draft document and to include the site in the repair programme of the Road Infrastructure Agency and to provide funding. Just to mention, as well as in the response of the MP Kiril Kalfin from Kyustendil, under the envisaged decree of the Council of Ministers and its possible implementation within the calendar year 2017, we have considered the need for repair activities on the current road section and have included the section from Pazardzhik to Peshtera in the repair programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u216	Thank you. Do you have a line? Here you go, Mr. Mladenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u217	Dear Minister, thank you for your reply, but I suppose you're not surprised I'm not satisfied with it. This area is very important, once again I say, for the development of Pazardzhik District. And I will only read to you this are local and national media appearances over the past few months: The rock mass has buried the path Cave.Batak, a wall of support is hanging on the path Cave of Batak, the road Cave of Batak is only 17 km, but driving along this section is a real challenge. For a whole year the road has been under repair, but there is nothing. I can also show you a lot of pictures of what it is this time and I'll give it to you. [[National Representative Yordan Mladenov gives media material to the Minister.]] Dear Minister, 141 years ago in Batak, up there in the mountains, people fought for their homes, for their faith. Today is the 21st century and we cannot give them access to be able to move to their families, to go home to their parents. We cannot give the opportunity to develop the economy and, in particular, tourism. We know the SPA capital Velingrad itself is 20 km from Batak, traveling all the way from Eastern Bulgaria, there are many resorts that need support, need infrastructure. So I am extremely dissatisfied with your response and even more so, that in 2014 this time was updated, as far as I know, a filming of the road was made and it was intended to enter the Operational Program. I don't know why he got out of this program.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u218	Thank you, Mr. Mladenov. Mr. Minister, will you take an attitude? For Batak, you'll take an attitude. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u219	What did I learn from the line, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House? The governments of Borisov have deprived the access to Batak of the Bulgarian citizens, and those of Lukanov, his light finger, Oresharski, of Videnov have built the road and made it accessible. I didn't get the line from the esteemed MP. And I didn't understand, didn't he understand my answer? Why did you remain dissatisfied with the fact that I mentioned that we provided funding for the project? Maybe he'd be happy if I said we wouldn't provide funding for the project and give it up for another time?! For example, Mr. Gokov asked two weeks ago a question about Stara Zagora. Will the people's representative Mladenov be pleased then?! I do not know what information it has, I have not seen the project to be included in the priorities and priority projects under the Operational Programme. If you have any other information, please let me know. I mention, I haven't seen, I don't know who made promises to you, but I haven't seen the project be turned on to be expelled from there. And I mentioned that road financing would be found. I mentioned the source of the funding. If you're not happy, I don't know what you'd be out of.! Let's include it in the Operational Program "Regions in growth" we need to rule it out another time. And in those two months, I really didn't notice that he was there, in a time period of 3, 4, 5 years back in time. On the contrary, the funding for the road is from the state budget and its rehabilitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u220	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Two questions are followed by the MP Vladislav Nikolov, the first of which concerns the rehabilitation of Republican road III-201 from km 9+347 A very detailed question is asked. Unfold it, please, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u221	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, we are talking about one time in Pleven district, Levski municipality. This is the road from the town of Levski to the village of Asenovtsi, with the border region of Lovech. The road, as you understand, is in bad shape, so I'm asking the question. There are holes, asphalt flooring is broken in places, and at my meetings with the people of the region, this question is always posed when will this time be done? Therefore, I ask you the following question: are construction activities envisaged to restore and improve the technical and operational qualities of this time, if such are foreseen, please respond within what time and volume will be fulfilled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u222	Thank you. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Nikolov! You have correctly noticed that this is the border between Loveska and Pleven region. In Lovech region the road is really perfectly filled, maintained well for more than 10 years. The path you are asking is in a tragic state, in a very poor operational state, especially within the village of Asenovtsi. The third-class section of which you mentioned from the regulation of the town of Levski through the village of Asenovtsi to the border with Loveska region and Letnishka municipality is 5 km long and 400 m long. I mentioned, it is in a very unsatisfactory state for 30 years and it is no longer repaired. According to an expert assessment for the complete repair of the section, about 2 million are needed. 374 thousand. lv. with VAT. For the section there is no project readiness and is not included in the repair programmes of the Agency. Road Infrastructure, for 2017, unlike the previous issue, for which the colleague was not satisfied, I guess you will also not be pleased that the road is not included for 2017. The section is taken care of according to the funds under the Programme. In the period March "June" this year, repairs were carried out at compromised places on the pavement worth just over 23 thousand. lv. The indicative value of the repair work, for which I once visited the town of Levski made a commitment, is on the basis of which will be done cutting and laying a dense and non-solid asphalt mixture at the compromised places, mainly in the most tragic part of the village of Asenovtsi, is 452 thousand. lv. and they will be provided within this year to fix the road section in stages at least this part within the locality and its regulation by. The possibility of providing the necessary funds from the Agency's budget for the rest of the road in the framework of the 2018 budget shall be considered. But on the basis of all the issues that I am getting through rehabilitation, repairs and future ones, and rather the discontent from the local communities about the status of the third-class and second-class road network in the country, I am increasingly convinced, I suppose, you too, of the need to introduce the tol fee without going out to any MP, the minister or the deputy minister of the forehead, this will be the approach, this will be the solution in the road sector to have enough generated resources to maintain both in good and safe state Republican roads, and to build new road sections. We also commented on the tunnel "Postka" and sections of the highway "Hemus" and our biggest goal and global vision in the road sector is to make the Bulgarian roads safer and safer. With a 300-million-dollar budget, with the so-called expensive winemakers, the needs on an annual basis are between nine hundred million and one billion. We could hardly meet these needs, so we prioritize certain sections. Specially for your journey, it is not yours, it is your constituents from the Pleven region, I mentioned to the village of Asenovtsi within this year, which I have already undertaken, I declare it from the tribune, in 2018 is the rest of the route, so that the municipality of Levski can still have at least as good a path as the municipality of Letnitsa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u224	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Nikolov, would you care for an answer? Line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u225	I thank you for your answer, Minister. I'm glad you took such quick measures and the worst precinct will be done this year. I understand the difficulties, I understand what API's budget is. I hope with tol fees to solve the problems entirely because when more than 30 years have not been done, some roads have not been maintained, one, two, three years can be solved the problems of the whole of Bulgaria. I hope that with tol fees we will be able to successfully solve the problems of most roads in most areas. I guess with colleagues in other areas the situation of road infrastructure is the same.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u226	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Mr. Minister, you won't be using the right to dodge. We come to the next question from Mr. Nikolov. It refers to the rehabilitation of Republican Road III-303 from km 11+480 to km 19+260, the town of Levski. A total of 7 km 397 m. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, my question is about the road from the town of Levski to the village of Gradishte. I've asked that question a few times. I therefore also refer to you in this mandate by asking for the rehabilitation of Republican Road III-303. The road is in very bad shape, there are big holes along the way, in some places it's even impossible to miss, there are road accidents. That's why people in my foster homes are constantly putting up with the right question about the overall rehabilitation of the road. So I ask you the following question: when, in what volume and within what time will the rehabilitation be carried out if it is done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u228	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u229	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Nikolov! Another third-rate road is in an extremely bad, unsatisfactory state. Not inadequate, but extremely poor operating condition! And because I'm tired of repeating myself about tolls and wine, I'm not going to literally read the answer that my colleagues at the Road Infrastructure Agency have prepared for me. I will tell you just some basic parameters for the road and what we are planning to do. The division of the third-class road III-303 between Levski and Gradishte village is 7 km long and 400 m again over 30 years without major rehabilitation, without major repair. In view of this, I included the section on the list of road sections planned for preventive repair this year, in 2017, while targeted funding was to be provided. According to an expert assessment, the necessary funds are just over 3 million. lv. with a tax of added value. These include re-asphalting of the section along its entire width, restoring horizontal marking and vertical signalling. We have made a commitment 2017 to rehabilitate the road. Indeed, the shortage of the Agency's budget programme is huge, so we will also rely on some assistance from the Ministry of Finance not only for this section, but also for some of the sections for which both colleagues from the left and right have asked questions, but as much as I do not wish, the system is the solution for all problems related to rehabilitation, especially at the road sections of the first, second and third classes, as at present and in the future for the construction of the new sections are both European and other sources of funding. The commitment we have made for this time will be fulfilled, despite the huge deficits in our budgets as well. Only one clamp will open on nature is difficult to influence, but this winter alone was spent for snow cleaning 80 million of the 300 million budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency, almost twice as much as the previous year, which funds, as a cost feather, could go to other activities, including rehabilitation of other road sections. But what can be done? There, too, we have to optimize, we will conclude new contracts to stay on the subject, and in 2017, I hope, certainly in the beginning of 2018, the road will be rehabilitated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u230	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u231	Mr. Minister, I want to thank you. The problem has been posed for many years and has not been solved. What we've heard is satisfying. I'm counting on this to happen in the next few months, in your words. At last, a major problem will be solved, because this is a road they travel to the Municipal Center. In very bad condition is the break-in of cars, the buses from there travel, so I very much trust that this will happen in the summer months or autumn, in your words, so at last in this area, I just want to point out that in the municipality of Levski the mayor is from BSP. I'm a MP from GERB, but it's nothing to me... I want to put the problems of the people of every community in my area. I am glad that there is a solution for two roads in our area and in the municipality of Levski, to be exact. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u232	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Dear colleagues, the working time is up to 14.10. We have an opportunity for the next question, although the time is coming. The next question is from the National Representative Nikolay Sirakov and the National Representative Vasil Tsvetkov on the included measure for support of the reform of the sector. Here you are, Mr. Tsvetkov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u233	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! A support measure for the reform of the sector is included in the Operational Programme No measures have been taken within the service cabinet for successful preparation, which contributes to delaying the preparatory process and hence to risks in the implementation of the Programme's objectives. In this regard, can we now obtain information: are steps in place for the accumulated delay, in what direction and do you think that the steps taken at the moment will be able to ensure successful implementation of the project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u234	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetkov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsvetkov, the Ministry of Health has been designated as a specific beneficiary under Priority Axis 4 of the Operational Programme. It is intended for implementation through a large project within the meaning of art. 100 of the European Union Regulation No 1303 of 2013. The project is related to the renovation and modernisation of the building fund and equipment in the emergency medical care system. The activities are intended to cover the emergency rooms of 34 medical institutions, 27 emergency services centres and the 170 emergency medical services branches that have been disclosed to them under a budget of 163 million. 502 thousand. lv. By decision of the Ministry of Health was signed a service contract with subject of the project contractor for preparation of a project proposal for application with a large investment project to support emergency medical assistance under the ODA 2014-2020. Within the framework of the contract with the contractor, the overall feasibility study should be drawn up in accordance with the requirements of art. 100 of the regulation, which I quoted just now, including a grant application form, with all the documents applicable to it under the Operational Programme. In view of the complex factual situation and the complexity of the project itself, technical assistance was requested under the initiative "Compatible assistance to support the European regions".............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Ministry of Health has taken action to identify suitable terrains to build new or renovate existing buildings of existing structures of Emergency Medical. Given that a large part of the listed buildings are owned by commercial companies, the Ministry of Health has concluded contracts with the relevant parties to establish limited property rights under the Law on Construction of the Area, for the benefit of the State, thus far having acquired rights over more than half of the properties. In order to speed up the process of preparing the big draft of the Ministry of Health for application under the Operational Programme and catching up of the accumulated delay, a roadmap has been drawn up with a linear timetable for the planned activities, intermediate deadlines and responsible institutions. A Steering Group on the Project was established, including two Deputy Ministers of MRRB, colleague Miroslav Nenkov from the Ministry of Health, respectively the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, which will monitor the progress of the preparation of the project and will accelerate it. In this regard, action has been taken to make up for the delays accumulated during the caretaker government, but not only during the caretaker government. It is due to be published on the website of the Ministry of Health for Public Discussion a revised standard for emergency medical care. By the end of July 2017, the standard is planned to be approved, respectively published in the Official Journal. Within the month of July this year, the needs analysis is also planned to be updated according to the comments of the JASPERS team with the specific sites of intervention under this Project. According to the road map I mentioned, the Ministry of Health has committed by the end of December 2017 to be ready with the submission of the project proposal to the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" in our Ministry. At the moment, excellent coordination has been achieved, I dare say it categorically, between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health, and the main challenges have been overcome with regard to the preparation of this large-scale, important and extremely complex investment project for realization and implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u236	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Is there gonna be a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u237	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister Nankov, honourable colleagues! Hospital institutions, municipalities and district administrations in the last year, year and a half made an extreme effort to provide land and a building fund for this project to be realized. At the end of today's parliamentary control, I would like to thank you for making up for the delay you are making and for making efforts to create this coordination mechanism with which the project can be successfully implemented. This project has two aspects.. important are the patients, all of us who are using emergency assistance. However, there is another mandatory aspect of the staff who are working in emergency care. So thank you for your actions and we reserve the right to continue monitoring this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u238	Thank you, Mr. Sirakov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u239	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Sirakov, with all responsibility, representing the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, I understand what you said. Indeed, this project is extremely important, not only because it is the only large-scale project implemented by European Union funds in the current programming period, which concerns the sector.............................. emergency medical assistance...... but also because in the middle of the programming period it is difficult to direct resources if we fail to implement it in other priorities and other sectoral policies. That is why the two ministries with accelerated maximum efforts will bring the project to a successful conclusion. The fact is that the delay was within more than eight months and will be difficult to catch up in four months to catch up with these eight, but by the end of the year with the new road map we will succeed, I am convinced that I am optimistic to catch up with them and 2018 to begin the real award of the project activities, which will include not only buying mobile staff I do not know if it is the place from this high tribune to say, but with the leadership of the Ministry of Health in this staff we have excellent communication and I assure you, not only communication but also relations within the framework of the realization of this Project, so I declare again with all responsibility of the weight of these words from the high tribune of the National Assembly that the project will be successfully implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u240	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This is the place for such a commitment, I assure you. Mr. Minister, I ask you one last effort, we are still within regular time to try to answer one last question about today's marathon of questions. It is the National Representative Georgi Gokov and is about the need for major repairs of those who pass through the municipality of Bratya Daskalovi, Stara Zagora District, third-class Republican roads, which are part of the Republican network. The roads 3+608 and 3+565 are indicated. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for understanding. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Mr. Minister, I'm in your position. The situation is very difficult because the state of the road network in our country is extremely difficult. In Stara Zagora, the Stara Zagora region is perhaps above average. I said it last time that it was in better condition than in most other areas. There are roads that are really in a miserable state. I've taken the liberty of putting these two paths into the same question so I don't dwindle things. If I asked you ten questions, it wouldn't be any different. Both roads are third-class. One with number 608, the other 565. One time is the Diviner.. A unit of 10 km and 300 m, which is in extremely difficult condition, has not been repaired for 25 years. The next time is Opalchenets "Rizovo" "Montenegro" and south of the village of Partizanin is connected with Republican Road 664. These two roads are one of the main roads in the Bratyadascalo Municipality, where people communicate with each other and connect with the district center, depending on them depends on their livelihood and investment as far as we can talk about investments in such an area. Even their bread depends on these ways, for they are provided with bread in these ways. And the companies that deliver the bread refuse to go through these roads. I, I know the standard answer you're going to give now: toll fees, I don't know what you are, there's no money, that's clear. That's not the point. I will continue to raise the question, because in the foster homes we organize in the settlements, people raise these questions. Let them stay on your attention when the plan of the Road Infrastructure Agency is being drawn up for the next year and when these roads are already unable to be used, to be included in this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u242	Mr. Gokov, I think your question is clear. Mr. Minister, please come in and say it from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Gokov! In terms of the status of the roads of the Road Infrastructure Agency, we divide them into three classes: good, medium and in poor condition. No, most of it's bad. From over 22 thousand kilometers of Republican road infrastructure, about 8500 are in poor condition, to which we focus our efforts mainly, but the maintenance and operation of the remaining 13,000 is going. The fact is that the road sections I mentioned on the territory of Stara Zagora region are in a really bad state. It is correct in your question that Stara Zagora district in infrastructure from the point of view of a Republican road network is in a really relatively good position, not to say in one of the best states against the background of all 27 other areas in the country. Specially for road III 608 Kazanlak A significant part of it is even without asphalt. The department needs a major renovation, as putting in funds for ongoing maintenance, which we are making and which funds will be invested, although my colleague Mladenov, your colleague is not satisfied with the road Pazardzhik The road needs major repair and partial patching or ongoing repair, or even preventive repair is not possible. On the territory of the municipality of Bratya Daskalovi, Republican Road III 565, the border Regional Road Management In the case of emergency situations at Trakia Motorway, the Republican route is used as a bypass, which further worsens the situation, but major repairs have not been carried out for more than 25 years. By the end of the summer season it is planned to patch out the most dangerous bumps on the road and clean the curves from bushes to ensure visibility and a slightly better safety of movement. The activities will be implemented according to the available financial resources in order to improve traffic safety. Thus, there are no technical projects made for both road sections and are not included in the Main Repair Programme for 2017 of the Road Infrastructure Agency. No funding is provided. Not to mention the answer you're waiting for and you know it. The Road Infrastructure Agency will plan the construction of technical documentation and the implementation of the most necessary major repairs on the two third-class roads. Excuse me, it may not be the place here to smile, I do not go ironically, but in a purely hearted tone, and I am tired of answering the same thing, but without the tol system, this should be clear, not of our government, and the next governments in Bulgaria, the road sector will always rely on deposits, either by credit instruments, again at the expense of the Bulgarian taxpayer, loan funds, World Bank and so on, either by European funds (until 2020, there is no cohesion policy for roads and asphalt), or by the Ministry of Finance, when it realises surpluses based on annual overrun or half a year overrun of revenue, compared to expenditure in the budget. So the only chance the road sector is sustainable, self-financing, are tolling. After the introduction of the Tol system, it will be the only infrastructure sector that will support itself and generate the right resource for adequate maintenance and construction of new sections of the Republican road network. With an apology once again for answering in the same way, but these are our options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u244	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gokov, you can use the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u245	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, I would like to tell you: I thank you for your answer and I would like to tell you that I am satisfied, but I cannot say this because I am asking this question not on my behalf, but on behalf of those people there with whom I meet and they say to me: "We are forgotten by the government, by the National Assembly, and we are paying wine, taxes, everything we need to. The last time I told you about the sign with the "Welcome to Mars" and now I've been told a fairy tale in France and Germany may have wide streets, but in Bulgaria we have deep streets. And they sent me pictures. It wasn't just one guy who brought me to the reception room, then e-mailed me a bunch of pictures, and I'm not gonna make circuses here to wave, and show them, because you know them. They conduct correspondence with the Regional Road Management, with the Regional Governor. Everyone gets into their situation. And you are in their position, and I am in their position, but in the end the way sits still. There are 5 more questions from the reception centers. I know what you're going to say. These people want to hear that their paths are not in order, that because of their ways, if someone has decided to buy a house in this area, do not, because the road is in terrible condition and cannot be reached. God forbid someone wants to make investments, but don't make them for the roads. So we're turning some areas because of communications into a deserted area. That's not the main reason, but it's part of the reason. The questions will be released, we will ask them to stay in the attention of the Agency's Programme on Road Infrastructure and the next budget. And the last thing I'm saying is, we're talking a lot about this whole system right now. We probably expect her to solve all our problems, but I hope she doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u246	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here you go, you're right the regulation allows. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u247	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Gokov! I suppose you know how unfair the current model of charging the operation, maintenance, charging the Bulgarian citizens, of crossing the Republican roads is. Not that it's very fair to charge municipal fees. The model for charging the passage through state roads is unfair, but 70 percent and a little more of the revenue in the Agency "Travel Infrastructure" is collected precisely by those Bulgarian citizens who are pouring such questions on you. Until we reverse the model, and I am convinced that this will happen within the framework of this mandate, this government, we will ask ourselves tens of years forward in time such questions and we will not be able, under the Agency and the state budget, to have a modern European road sector. I say....... because here we commented on European themes with the broad or Bulgarian with the deep streets and roads. I don't take out the toll as a panacea to solve all problems. To be fair, the toll will burden one another's branch. The one that mainly depreciates, burdenes and destroys Republican roads. Our goal is to make a large part of the revenue from this industry from the transport sector on the basis of the transit through Bulgaria, i.e. this will be a very adequate model. For the first time, by the way, in our modern history, we will be able to make more adequate use of the geostrategic situation in the Balkans. Through our territory, we know five of the ten transport halls pass. If one of them is the navigable route of the Danube River, four of the ten pan-European transport corridors pass through our territory. We must and will do everything possible and you will see that there will be good results. God willing, after us you will come to power, you will have enough resource generated to maintain roads. I have always been satisfied when you ask questions about Republican roads and road infrastructure, as we are all already matured, regardless of political bias and orientation, left, right, what are normal, social and economic dependencies, and that without infrastructure, whether it be an environmental one, whether it be, energy and so on, we could hardly have adequate socio-economic and demographic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-14.u248	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This was the last question and the last answer for today's meeting of Minister Nankov. To thank him for his participation, which gave us a real idea of the burden of problems in the portfolio. We wish success in solving these problems! Due to the late hours of today's sitting, I'm adjourned. The next regular meeting is on 19 July 2017, at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
