ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues. Please register. There's no quorum. Second attempt at 12.15 p.m. 12:17 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u2	Colleagues, please register. Abort registration. There is no jurisdiction. Last attempt at 12:30 p.m. Found at 12.31 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u3	Colleagues, third and final attempt. Please register. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear Members of Parliament, the extraordinary meeting today has been convened on the basis of two proposals from two groups of MPs. The first at the time is the proposal of Petar Slavov and a total of 50 MPs with an inch. No 754-07-16 of 20 January 2017 which propose today that an extraordinary meeting be held with two items on the agenda: 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Contracts, No 654-01-81. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Settlement of Rights of Citizens with Multiannual Housing Savings Deposits, No 654-01-45, submitted by Willi Lilkov, Petar Slavov and a group of MPs. The same day with a letter with an I.V. No 754-07-17 has been requested by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs from GERB, who propose convening an extraordinary meeting with six agenda points, also on 24 January, Tuesday, at 12:00. On the basis of the two proposals by my order, today's extraordinary meeting of 12:00 has been convened, with the six items on the agenda on the proposal of the group of MPs from GERB "Tsvetan Tsvetanov and the others," I have added the possible item for inclusion on the agenda of the proposal of the other group of MPs, namely: the second vote of the Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on the obligations and contracts with importers, Willi Lilkov and a group of MPs. With regard to the other point, it is proposed to include a second vote on the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Settlement of the Rights of Citizens with Multiannual Housing Savings Deposits, No 654-01-45, cannot be included in the programme for today, as there is no report on the second vote presented, and this is an insurmountable obstacle to placing and examining the item on our agenda. Therefore, today's extraordinary plenary session, I recall the programme, will be on the following agenda: 1. Second vote on the Law on concessions. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legal Aid. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 3. Second vote on a Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Structure of the Area. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Property Act. 6. Second vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Civil Procedure Code. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Contracts. Two messages. The National Centre for Parliamentary Studies in the National Assembly received a report on a study of the legislative activity of the Forty-third National Assembly. The scope of the survey includes 586 bills registered in the Public Register.. National Assembly bills for the period from 27 October 2014 to January 2017. The study was sent to the MPs by electronic means and is available at the Library of Parliament. It will also be published on the website of the National Assembly. On January 20th of this year, with an I.V. The National Assembly received a Report on the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process in the European Union during the Slovak Presidency of the Council of the European Union "July," December 2016, and on the main priorities during the Maltese Presidency of the Council of the European Union "January," June 2017, and a six-month programme with priority for the Republic of Bulgaria topics and files during the Maltese Presidency of the Council of the European Union adopted by Decision No 51 of the Council of Ministers of 2017. The materials are at your disposal in e-mail. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My procedure is for you, Madam President, in the manner of conduct. With everything you have said, I can agree with you on the proposals for the agenda, only I cannot agree that the first signing of an extraordinary meeting at the time has actually been sent to second place on the agenda. It is incorrect, since it is clear and undeniable that, as early as 1300 hours on Friday, with colleague Bajraktarov and other over 50 colleagues, we have submitted such a signature with a clearly defined agenda, it is distributed among the parliamentary groups, and other colleagues have decided that they may not like this agenda and want to propose another, then their agenda should have priority. I cannot accept your argument that our request for an extraordinary meeting for 1300 hours, which, by the way, is exceptional and only as a gesture of correctness to colleagues who are travelling from the province today, otherwise at 9:00 we would have asked for it, but we were simply correct to them, as you can see, we did not do it, then when it becomes public and it is known that we have asked today to have an extraordinary meeting at 1300 hours, a subsequent petition with an hour of 12:00. It is obvious to me what is being done, and I ask you very much to apply the Rules strictly: on our proposal points one and two to remain the law on interest rates and the Law on obligations and contracts, as we have proposed. And if you think that under the conditions, and possibly I am proposing not to take the floor again, let the House vote on this question whether item seven on the agenda, such as a change to become point one and really deal with people's problems and the fight against monopolies, rather than the concessions that we have all seen, are infinite in a direct and figurative sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u5	Dear Mr. Slavov, the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly do not contain an explicit provision under which, in the event of competition of proposals from a group of MPs to convene an extraordinary meeting, to take the time of the submission of the proposal as a priority. I have been guided by the times and content agenda and by the starting hours proposed by the Members of the National Assembly. If you find a specific text in the Rules, then I would only agree with you. Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to say back, differently, categorically against an opinion, according to what my colleague Slavov proposed. He actually clearly and did not propose a procedural proposal. You've raised your objections. I believe that the agenda is fully in line with the requirements of the Constitution. Furthermore, I would like to emphasise explicitly that the Bill, which he continues to insist on and behind which there are obviously many interests of many oligarchs with unpaid, outstanding tax obligations to correct their interest, if allowed to discuss on the substance, I would like to postpone the discussion, because it does not comply with our other legislation, explicitly disregarding the relationship with the Consumer Credit Act, where, if we accept in this form the proposals of my colleague Slavov, the limit of the annual rate of expenditure, of the GPR on the so-called fast loans, will fall. And I ask not to mislead the audience, not to deceive the debtors, that this is a bill which, you see, is entirely in their favor and was against the monopolies. Not at all! We will enter into a debate and specify specific calculations. We will also give you specific negative opinions that are important to comply with. Look, someone in the last minutes of this parliament is trying to achieve a certain result. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u7	This is the opposite opinion of your procedural proposal and there is no way to make a reverse opinion without mentioning the name of the person who made the proposal. I put to the vote Mr. Slavov's proposal after Mr. Kirilov's feedback. 7 of the Programme Project today to be t. 1. We vote. They voted 134 MPs: 53, Against 55, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u8	Thank you, Madam President. I am doing a re-voting procedure and since my colleague Danail Kirilov still violated the procedure and made a very specific statement, I would like to point out that I do not share what Daniel Kirilov said. More than that! The bill has passed a second vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u9	I understand they haven't been able to vote the coworkers...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u10	Let my fellow Members know that, Madam President. The bill passed at second reading in the Legal Committee and was adopted. And he was accepted at second reading in that same Legal Committee! Another question is the question, and you may be able to confirm that a very serious phone call has started from the houses for quick loans, as last night I was also being made such an attempt to make a call. [[Noise and lines.]] If you're clean in front of your conscience, or if you're going to support it to get this Law on the agenda, because you can't...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u11	But he's on the agenda, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u12	No, come in first.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u13	If we hadn't lost 45 minutes with procedural...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u14	If necessary, we will ask for an extension of the plenary session, but we cannot serve the monopoly with 50% penalty interest! Come on, please! Let's not play. If you want, I can tell you, if we get into a debate, very interesting things, especially those interest rates. And who gives the money to these houses.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u15	Do you suggest a re-vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u16	I suggest a re-vote. That's what I started with, if you've listened to me carefully, so I appeal to you to support and enter for the first point, and then we get into a debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u17	It's a re-vote. Vote 128 MPs: 54, Against 49, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CONCESSIONS. We continue the second vote to take the title and to art. 119 included. Report of Chapter 4 "Execution of concessions" is to be made, p. 116. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! "Chapter 4" "Execution of a concession". The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. "Section I "Concession contract concluded. " The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 120, the word "the fifteenth" is replaced by "the 15th." The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 121: Art. 121. (1) Before the conclusion of the concession contract, the participant designated as concessionaire shall submit to the concession holder evidence certifying the facts and circumstances of the grounds for exclusion and the conditions for participation declared with the application. (2) Where, until the expiry of the concession contract period, the participant designated as concessionaire does not provide the evidence under para. 1 or refuses to conclude the concession contract, the concession may, by decision, designate the concession holder to be the second-placed participant. The decision shall set a time limit for the conclusion of the concession contract and may set a condition for improving the proposals under the award criteria for that participant. (3) Where a condition for improving proposals under the award criteria is laid down, negotiations shall be held. A concession contract may not be concluded with the second-place concession holder definitions when negotiations do not agree on the improvement of proposals under the award criteria made by the participant. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 122: Art. 122. (1) The concession contract shall be concluded in accordance with the offer of the participant designated as the concession holder and, when concluded with the second-placed participant, in accordance with the offer of the participant or the results achieved in the negotiations. (2) The concession contract shall be concluded in writing and shall contain: 1. the parties to the contract, details of the commercial and other registrations of the concessionaire and the persons representing it; 2. subject matter and value of the concession; 3. the requirements and indicators of the subject-matter of the concession, including the requirements concerning the type and quality of the works and/or services included in the subject-matter of a concession for works and of a concession for services; 4. a description of the business activity to be carried out with the concession subject to a concession for use; 5. description, characteristics and indicators of the object of the concession; 6. the date of entry into force of the contract, the preconditions, where any, and the duration of the concession; 7. the terms, arrangements and time limits for the transmission of the object of the concession at the beginning and end of the concession, as well as the early termination of the concession contract; 8. the conditions for carrying out the concession and the burdens, where available; 9. the distribution of risks between the concessionaire and the concession; 10. the rights and obligations of the Parties, including the conditions and time limits for their implementation; 11. the amounts, time limits and arrangements for making payments from the concession to the concessionaire, where such payments are envisaged; 12. the amount, time limits and order of payment of the concession fee, where provided; 13. the terms and conditions for updating the initial value of the concession and/or the payments from and to the concessionaire (indexation clause), where such provision is made; 14. the types, size, timing and means of providing guarantees and collateral for the performance of the obligations under the contract; 15. the applicable obligations relating to the national security and defence of the country, to the life and health of citizens, to the environment, to protected areas, zones and sites and to public order, where applicable; 16. the applicable insurance obligations of the site of the concession; 17. the conditions and arrangements for financing the removal of environmental damage; 18. the terms and conditions for carrying out the reporting and control of the fulfilment of the obligations of the concessionaire, including the implementation of the financial and economic model; 19. responsibilities for non-compliance with the obligations of the contract; 20. the terms, procedures and time limits for the exchange of information between the Parties, including by electronic means, and for carrying out the monitoring and control of the performance of the contract; 21. the arrangements for resolving disputes between the Parties; 22. the grounds and order for early termination of the contract; 23. the requirements concerning the condition in which the object of the concession is passed on to the concession after the expiry of the concession period; 24. the applicable law; 25. the rate of the rate of return for the concessionaire determined by the financial and economic model as well as the order for its calculation, reporting and controlling; 26. Other, depending on the applicable provisions of the current legislation on the site of the concession, construction or services. (3) The concession contract shall determine the specific obligations of the concessionaire in the field of environmental, social and labour law established by national law, European Union law, collective agreements or international conventions in the social field and in the field of environment under Annex No 5. (4) Where applicable, the concession contract shall also contain: 1. the economic operator representing the group, the lead partner respectively, as well as the proportion of the concession and the types of concession activities that each of the partners will carry out when the beneficiary is a group of economic operators; 2. the proportion of the concession and the types of activities of the subject-matter of the concession to be carried out by subcontractors and, for each of the subcontractors referred to in the application, the details of the commercial and other registrations and of the persons representing it; 3. third parties and a description of the resources of those persons which the concessionaire will have available for the duration of the concession, as well as details of the commercial and other registrations and of the persons representing each third party. (5) An integral part of the concession contract shall be the proposal and the binding proposal of the participant appointed for the Article 123 supposed by MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 123, para. 4 sentence 3 is created: "If no agreement is reached within 6 months of the request, either party may cancel the contract.' The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 123, as in para. 1 after the word "supplier' is added to the concession for construction and for the concession for services. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 124: Art. 124. (1) Within one month of the conclusion of the concession contract, the appointed by the concession officer shall send for publication a notice of concession awarded under the terms and conditions of art. 76, para. 1 and 3. (2) The concession award notice shall be published in the relevant electronic form and shall contain the results of the concession award procedure carried out, including: 1. consistency; 2. estimated value and value of the concession; 3. period of concession; 4. conditions for the entry into force of the concession contract; 5. information on the concessionaire concerning: (a) the name, respectively the name; (b) the form of participation (c) persons representing the economic operator according to the register in which he is entered, if there is such a register; (d) the name, respectively the name of the subcontractors referred to in the application; 6. the type of procedure carried out; 7. the award criteria; 8. other specified in the relevant electronic form. (3) On the day of dispatch for the publication of the concession award notice, an official appointed by the concession holder shall open in the National concession register a concession account and publish in it the decision determining the concessionaire and concession contract. In the concessional contract published in the National Registry, the information protected by law, sensitive information and information identified as confidential shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u19	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Chavdar Georgiev, which is not supported by the Commission. It is made under art. 123. They voted 71 MPs: 11 against 37, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the name of Chapter 4, Section I, and Articles 120 to 124, including the Commission report. Vote 75 MPs: 69, against 3, abstention 3. The name of Chapter 4, the name of Section I and Articles 120 to 124 of the Commission report have been adopted. Here you are, Mr. Svilensky, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, in relation to the serious, critical and crisis situation at the border crossings Vidin and Ruse, you know, there is an accumulation of over 15 km... [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u21	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u22	I suggest, since there are queues over 15 and 20 km, drivers sleep in the trucks, there are tensions between the drivers themselves, transport companies also have a problem with the goods they drive, I suggest, Mr. Chairman, to be invited to the plenary room to inform the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Transport about the situation. If, as you claim, the blockade is lifted, it's welcome. I think the MPs, although on their last working day, should be aware of the situation in the country. Thank you. [[Noise, lines and shouts by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u23	Please be quiet in the hall! I'll contact the ministers. The information is that the blockade has actually been lifted. If it's up, you don't insist, do you? If the problem is fixed, you don't insist. I'll get back to you and let you know.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u24	"Section II" "Execution of the concession contract." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 125, as in para. 2 sentence first, the words "for the determination of the' shall be deleted. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 126: Art. 126. (1) The concession shall transmit the object of the concession to the concessionaire within the period under the terms and conditions laid down by the concession contract. (2) Where the object of the concession is managed by a district manager, the transfer shall be carried out with his assistance. (3) After the expiry of the concession period, the concession holder shall transmit to the concession holder the site of the concession, except where the concession holder is owned, in the operational suitability sufficient to carry out the services, respectively, to the business, according to its intended purpose. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 127: Art. 127. (1) In the performance of the concession contract, all individual administrative acts relating to the performance of the concession activities shall be issued in the name of the concessionaire and at his request. (2) Where construction is carried out under a concession contract, the concessionaire shall be considered to be a person entitled to build on a foreign property within the meaning of the Law on Construction in the Area. The measures relating to the design and approval of the construction plans, investment projects, the authorisation and implementation of the construction, the introduction of the works in operation and the other works provided for by a regulatory act shall be issued in the name of and at its request. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 128. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 129. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 130: Art. 130. (1) For the period of execution of the concession contract, the occurrence on grounds of exclusion shall not be permitted for both the concessionaire and the members of its management or supervisory authority and for any person having the power to represent, to take decisions or to exercise control within those bodies and for subcontractors and third parties, where available. (2) The concessionary shall inform the concession holder of the occurrence on grounds of exclusion. The notification shall be made within 30 days of the occurrence of the grounds for exclusion or the receipt of information on the occurrence by the concession or by another person. (3) In the notification under para. 2 The concession holder shall specify the measures to be taken to address the consequences and to effectively prevent future cases of unlawful conduct and the time limit for taking the measures. The measures may be personnel and organisational, such as: breaking any links with persons or organisations involved in irregular events; measures for personnel reorganization; implementation of reporting and control systems; establishment of an internal audit structure to monitor compliance, as well as adoption of internal rules for seeking liability and compensation. (4) Where the reason for exclusion has occurred for the sub-contractor, the concessionaire shall be obliged to terminate the sub-contract. In this case, in the notification under para. 2 The concession holder shall specify the period within which it will terminate the sub-contract and how it will continue the implementation of the activities under the terminated contract by the concessionaire or by the award of a new sub-contractor. (5) Where a reason for exclusion has occurred for a third party, the concessionaire shall not be entitled to use its resources. In this case, in the notification under para. 2 The concession holder shall indicate a new person and provide evidence that his resources will be available for the remaining term of the concession, such as art. 63, para. 4 shall apply accordingly. The concessionaire may not indicate a new third party if with the notification under para. 2 provide evidence that it meets the requirements for professional or technical abilities and/or financial and economic situation. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 131: Art. 131. (1) In the performance of the concession contract, the concession holder shall monitor and monitor the performance of the obligations of the parties to the contract as well as the audit of the concessionaire. For this purpose, the concession holder shall send to the concessionaire a report on the performance of the concession contract within the time limit and with the content specified by the contract. (2) The parties to the concession contract shall ensure that the concession documents are kept and maintained and that information is protected in relation to the performance of the contract. (3) The concession shall provide publicity for the implementation of the concession contract, with the exception of information protected by law, sensitive information and information identified as confidential. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 132: Art. 132. (1) The official appointed by the contracting officer shall, by 30 September, submit to the national concession register information on the implementation of the concession contract for the previous year on a template maintained on the website of the National concession register. (2) Based on the information under para. 1 for all concession contracts to which it is a party, the concession holder shall prepare and submit for approval to the Council of Ministers an annual report, respectively to the municipal council on the implementation of the projects and concession contracts included in the relevant action plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u25	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a proposal in art. 130, para. 5 in the Commission's report, the words "or" shall be dropped and shall remain only the Union "and" the concessionaire may not indicate a new third party if with the notification under para. 2 provide evidence that it meets the requirements for professional and technical abilities and for financial and economic condition........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That's how the lyrics sound.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u27	In both places you want to lose it. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Philip Popov: in art. 130, para. 5, the final sentence of the Union or the Union to fall into both places at the end of the sentence, to become.. for professional and technical abilities and for financial and economic situation......................................................................................... Vote 66 MPs: 9 against 34, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the name of Section II to the vote, as well as Articles 125 to 132, including on the Commission report. Vote 66 MPs: 60 against 3, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u28	Honourable President, honourable Members, I ask for a re-vote. Colleagues are entering the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u29	We rename Section II as well as Articles 125 to 232 on the Commission report. Vote 66 MPs: 64, no objection, abstention 2. The name of Section II and Articles 125 to 132, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u30	"Department III." "Department III." "Department III." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 133: Art. 133. (1) By way of the concession contract, the concessionaire shall assign to a person designated in the application or to a person chosen after the concession contract has been concluded, the performance of specific activities of the subject-matter of the concession. (2) A sub-contract may be concluded only with a person for whom there is no grounds for exclusion and eligible for participation, where those are specified in the notice of initiation. (3) The concessionaire may conclude concession contracts for the share of the concession and for the types of activities of its subject-matter which he has indicated in the application. (4) The concessioner shall be responsible jointly with the sub-contractor for the implementation of the activities entrusted with the sub-contract. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 134: Art. 134. (1) The concessionaire shall be obliged, within three working days of the conclusion, to provide the concession holder with the concession contract, as well as information on the sub-contractor including: 1. the name, respectively the name; 2. contact details, including e-mail address; 3. the persons who represent the sub-contractor according to the register in which he is entered, if there is such register; 4. a declaration by the sub-contractor concerning absence on grounds of exclusion and, if applicable, on the fulfilment of the conditions for participation laid down in the concession notice. (2) The concessionary shall inform the concession holder of any change of the information provided under para. 1, t. 1-3 within three working days of the occurrence of the change. (3) The concessionaire shall replace a sub-contractor with another sub-contractor when he has indicated this in the notification under art. 130, para. 2, within the time limit specified in the notification. The concessionaire shall replace a sub-contractor with another sub-contractor or himself perform the activities entrusted with the sub-contract where, following the conclusion of the sub-contract, non-compliance with the requirements for the protection of classified information is identified. (4) For incorrect data in the presented declaration under para. 1, t. 4 the sub-contractor shall have criminal liability under art. 313, para. 1 of the Penal Code. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 135: Art. 135. (1) In the event of a subsequent threat to the national security and defence of the country, to the life and health of the citizens, to the environment, to protected areas, zones and objects and to public order, the Party to the concession contract which has been informed thereof shall immediately notify the other Party. (2) When the existence of a circumstance under para. 1 has been found by a competent authority, it shall immediately inform the concession. (3) Upon the occurrence of a circumstance under para. 1 The concession contract shall be amended if any of the grounds under art. 137-139 or terminated.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u31	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Section III and Articles 133-135 on the Commission report. Vote 66 MPs: 63, none, abstention 3. The name of Section III and Articles 133-135 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u32	"Section IV - Amendment of the concession contract." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section IV. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 136: Art. 136. (1) The concession contract may be amended only in the cases specified by this law. (2) In the case of a concession for works and for a concession for services, the modification of the concession contract may not exempt the concession holder from the operational risk assumed. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 137: Art. 137. (1) The concession contract may be amended when: 1. a review clause as defined in the concession documents provides for the possibility of amendments, regardless of their value, or 2. the value of the amendment shall be below the European threshold, less than 10 per cent of the value of the concession and shall not lead to an amendment of the overall nature of the concession; or 3. the change, regardless of its value, is not material within the meaning of para. 5. (2) Where the concession contract is re-changed on the basis of para. 1, t. 2, the threshold of 10 per cent of the value of the concession shall be calculated in relation to the sum of the initial value of the concession and the value of the previous amendments, irrespective of their basis. (3) A review clause shall be provided for in the concession documents and shall contain an option or option to change the value of the concession or its duration. A review clause shall also determine the circumstances under art. 123, para. 3. The review clause clearly, precisely and unambiguously defines the scope and nature of the options and amendments envisaged without allowing for the change of the subject-matter of the concession and its overall nature. (4) An option of the concession shall be granted to the concessionaire, upon conclusion of the concession contract, to entrust the concessionaire with additional works and/or services not included in the contract. (5) Any change that: 1. introduce conditions which, if they were part of the procedure for determining the concessionaire, would allow the admission of candidates or participants other than those initially admitted or to the evaluation of a tender other than those initially assessed or would involve additional candidates or participants in the procedure; 2. alters the economic balance of the concession in favour of the concessionaire in a manner which was not provided for by the concession contract; 3. alters the object of the concession and its overall character; 4. leads to the replacement of the concessionaire without having a corresponding review clause, or conversion with a change of legal form or transformation with universal jurisdiction. (6) Modification of the concession contract leading to a substantial change within the meaning of para. 5, is null and void. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 138: Art. 138. (1) Where a circumstance arises after the conclusion of the concession contract which the concession could not have foreseen when the concession was awarded and which requires an amendment of the concession contract, the contract may be amended if this does not result in a change of the overall nature of the concession and an increase of the initial value of the concession by more than 50 percent. (2) The increase to 50 percent by para. 1 shall be calculated in relation to the initial value of the concession without accumulation of the values of previous changes, irrespective of their basis. (3) Modification of the concession contract, which leads to an amendment of the overall nature of the concession or to an increase of the initial value of the concession by more than 50 percent, is invalid. (4) In the case of a concession for services relating to the activities referred to in Annex No 2, the concession contract may be amended regardless of the value of the change if the modification does not lead to an amendment of the overall nature of the concession. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 139: Art. 139. (1) The concession contract may also be amended where, after the conclusion of the contract, there is a need to carry out additional works and/or additional services by the concessionaire which are not provided for by a review clause and cannot be awarded to another concessionaire for economic or technical reasons arising from the requirements of interchangeability or interoperability with the concession contract works and/or services, or because of a significant difficulty or substantial duplication of costs for the concession to which the award of another concession would lead. (2) In addition, the works awarded and/or services may not result in an increase of more than 50 per cent of the initial value of the concession. Article 138, para. 2 shall apply accordingly. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 140: Art. 140. (1) When calculating the value of the concession in the cases referred to in art. 137 - 139 - the value shall be updated according to the indexing clause, where provided for by the concession contract, and where not provided for by the average inflation value for the previous 12 months. (2) Average inflation shall be determined by the National Statistical Institute index. Current information about the index is maintained in the National Concession Register. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 141: Art. 141. (1) An amendment to the concession contract shall be made by means of an additional agreement following a reasoned proposal from one of the parties to the contract. (2) The concession makes or accepts or refuses to accept an amendment to the concession contract after approval by the Council of Ministers, respectively by the municipal council. (3) Within 30 days of the conclusion of the supplementary agreement, the official appointed by the concession holder shall publish a notice amending the concession awarded. The notice amending the concession awarded shall have the minimum content set out in Annex No 9. (4) Where the amendments are based on art. 138 or 139, for concession with cross-border interest the notice shall be completed in an electronic form according to art. 50, para. 2 and published under the terms and conditions of art. 76, para. 1 and 3. In other cases, whether or not the concession is of cross-border interest, the notice shall be completed in an electronic form maintained on the website of the National concession register and published in the Official Journal and in the National concession register. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 142. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 143: Art. 143. (1) The concessioner shall inform the concession holder of the pre-conditioned transformation with universal jurisdiction and shall make a proposal to replace the concessionaire with a successor. To the proposal, the concession holder shall provide information on the conditions of the preparation of the conversion and evidence that the successor is eligible for participation and that there is no grounds for exclusion. (2) Where the successor meets the requirements of para. 1, the concession, after approval by the Council of Ministers, by the municipal council respectively, gives a decision giving consent to the replacement of the concessionaire. The decision shall be issued within two months of the submission of the request or the removal of irregularities. Following the entry into force of the transformation, the concession holder and successor shall conclude an additional agreement amending the concession contract by replacing the concession holder. (3) Where the successor does not meet the requirements of para. 1, the concession, after approval by the Council of Ministers, by the municipal council respectively, issued a decision refusing to replace the concessionaire. (4) In the event of conversion of the concessionaire by changing the legal form, the concessionaire or his successor shall inform the concession holder of the conversion carried out. In this case, the requirements of para. 1-3 shall not apply.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u33	Statements? I won't. I shall put the name of Section IV to the vote, as well as Articles 136 to 143, including on the Commission report. Vote 67 MPs: 62, none, abstention 5. The name of Section IV and Articles 136 to 143 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u34	"Department V.. End of concession The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 144. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 145: Art. 145. (1) Before the expiry of the concession period, the concession contract shall be terminated without notice where: 1. there is evidence that at the date of conclusion of the concession contract for the concessionaire there was grounds for exclusion; 2. The Court of Justice of the European Union has established, in a procedure under art. 260 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union that the concession was awarded in breach of European Union law. (2) Before the expiry of the concession period, the concession contract shall be terminated: 1. with the complete loss of the concession site in the case of a concession for construction and the concession for use.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. upon termination of the concession firm from the date of termination of the company; 3. in the event of bankruptcy of the applicant from the date of entry into force of the judgment; 4. in the case of a judgment to terminate the concession contract from the date of entry into force of the judgment; 5. on other grounds provided for in a law or by the concession contract from the date specified therein. (3) In the cases under para. 2 The party that has learned of the termination of the suspension shall notify the other Party of the termination of the concession contract within 10 days of learning. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 146: Art. 146. (1) The concession contract may be terminated unilaterally from the concession: 1. in the event of a subsequent threat to the national security and defence of the country, to the life and health of citizens, to the environment, to protected areas, zones and objects and to public order, unless there is a reason for amending the contract; or 2. where the concessionaire has not notified the concession to occur on grounds of exclusion within the period under art. 130, para. 2 or has not taken within the time limit specified by it measures to remedy the consequences and to effectively prevent future cases of irregular events, respectively in the cases referred to in art. 130, para. 4 and 5 did not terminate a sub-contract or continue to use the third party's resources; 3. where the conversion by universal administration of the concessionaire is carried out: (a) without a decision of the concession granting consent to the replacement of the concessionaire, unless the successor proves that it is eligible for participation and that there is no grounds for exclusion; or (b) in the case of a decision of the concession refusing to replace the concessionaire. (2) The concession contract may be terminated unilaterally or by mutual agreement under conditions laid down by law or by the concession contract. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 147. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 148. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 149.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u35	Statements? I won't. I shall put the name of Section V to the vote, as well as Articles 144 to 149, including on the Commission report. Vote 71 MPs: 66, none, abstention 5. The name of Section V as well as Articles 144 to 149 including have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u36	"Department VI" "Consequences of The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of the name of Section VI: The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 150: Art. 150. (1) Upon termination of the concession contract due to the expiry of the concession period, the concessionaire shall not be entitled to compensation for the investments made or costs incurred in the operation of the works or services subject to the concession which have not been recovered. (2) Upon early termination of the concession contract for the reason for which the concession holder is responsible, the concession holder shall be entitled to compensation of: 1. the non-refundable costs of the concessionaire for investment in the concession site, where the site is state, municipal property, respectively, and 2. the amount corresponding to the rate of return fixed by the financial and economic model for the concessionaire for the entire duration of the contract, reduced by the value of the reimbursed investment costs at the concession site, where the site is owned by the concessionaire. (3) Upon early termination of the concession contract for the reason for which the concession holder is responsible, the concession: 1. owes to the concessionaire compensation of the non-refundable costs of the concessionaire for investments in the concession site, reduced by the amount corresponding to the rate of return fixed by the financial and economic model for the concessionaire for the entire duration of the contract, but not more than the market value of the investments made by the concessionaire in the concession site at the date of termination of the contract, where the property is owned by the State, respectively, of the municipality; 2. does not owe compensation to the concessionaire where the concession holder is owned by the concessionaire or a third party. (4) The reimbursement of the costs of the investment concessionaire shall cover the equity with a rate of return fixed by the financial and economic model and the capital drawn at its price, subject to the distribution of risks under art. 31. (5) In the case of para. 3, p. 1 The concession does not owe compensation where, at the date of termination of the concession contract, the market value of the concession entity has been reduced in relation to the market value at the date of conclusion of the contract and the reduction is the result of the reason why the contract was terminated. (6) In the case of para. 3, p. 2 The concessionaire owes to the concession compensation in the amount of compensation recovered as a result of the operation of the concession entity's investment costs in the concession site received by the date of termination of the concession contract. (7) In determining the amount of compensation due, account shall be taken of the amount of depreciation and available financial assets of the concessionaire. (8) Apart from the benefits under para. 2 and 3 the guilty party also owes penalties for the early termination of the concession contract when they are agreed. (9) The concession contract shall determine the time limits and arrangements for the payment of the compensation due and penalties. The compensations under para. 2 and 3 shall be paid in equal annual instalments for the remaining period of the terminated contract, except where otherwise agreed. The Commission shall in principle support the importer's proposal and propose the following version of art. 151: Art. 151. (1) When a concession contract is declared invalid, each Party shall return to the other Party everything it has received from it. (2) Upon notification of the invalidity of the concession contract, the concessionaire shall owe to the concession and the revenues from the services provided and/or the revenues from the business activities carried out with the concession entity. (3) Upon notification of the invalidity of the concession contract, the concession is due to the concessionaire and compensation for the claims and improvements made at the concession site under the conditions of art. 150, para. 2. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 152: Art. 152. (1) No compensation shall be due in cases of early termination of the concession contract for a reason for which none of the parties is responsible. (2) Where the early termination of the concession contract is due to the loss of the site of the concession, which is state-owned, respectively municipal property, the concession holder shall be entitled to receive part of the insurance compensation in the amount of the non-recoverable investment costs. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 153: Art. 153. (1) Upon termination of the concession contract, the concessionaire shall be obliged to pass on to the concession holder, which is state, municipal property, respectively, as well as forwards and improvements. The concessionaire shall not be entitled to detention on the subject. (2) For the surrender and acceptance of the object of the concession, the concession holder shall appoint a commission. A protocol shall be drawn up for the transmission to be signed by the members of the Commission and by an authorised representative of the concessionaire. (3) Where the concessionaire refuses to hand over the object of the concession and when, at the date of termination of the concession contract, the concessionaire is terminated without a successor or there is another impossibility to transmit the object, the Commission under para. 2 draw up a constant protocol for acceptance of the object stating the condition of the object and certifying the refusal or the impossibility of transmission. The Protocol is the basis for issuing an order for the seizure of the site under the Law on State Property, respectively the Law on Municipal Property. (4) The period for surrender and/or acceptance of the concession site shall be 30 days from the date of termination of the concession contract. (5) From the date of acceptance of the object of the concession and in the cases under para. 3 from the date of the claim: 1. the object of state ownership shall be managed by the respective regional governor or by another person designated by a regulatory act, by an act of the Council of Ministers or by the act of state ownership; 2. the site of municipal property shall be managed by the mayor of the municipality; 3. all rights of the concessionaire arising from individual administrative acts issued in his name in the performance of the concession contract shall be transferred to the person concerned under point 3. One or two. (6) Where the object of the concession is state owned, the concession holder shall also inform the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works or the Regional Governor of the acceptance of the site of the concession for marking in the State Property Act. (7) Alinei 1-6 shall apply respectively to the concessionable territory and the accessories which are state-owned, respectively municipal property. Proposal by the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 154 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) after the word the unsettled (s) shall be added (s) by this law (s). (b) the Union shall be replaced by a comma after the word 2. In para. 2 The Union is replaced by a comma and after the word the Union is added to the non-reuse. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 154: Art. 154. (1) The provisions of the Commercial Law and the Law on Obligations and Contracts shall apply respectively to outstanding matters concerning the conclusion, implementation, modification and termination of the concession contract. (2) Disputes concerning the conclusion, implementation, modification and termination of a concession contract shall be settled under the Civil Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u37	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Yanaki Stoilov under art. 154, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 71 MPs: 10, against 40, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the name of Section VI and Articles 150 to 154, including, on the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: 67 against 1, abstention 10. The name of Section VI and Articles 150 to 154 including have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u38	"Chapter 5" "Entrepreneurship of the state-owned enterprises." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 155.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u39	We vote on the name of Chapter 5 and the text of the importer as art. 155, supported by the Commission. Vote 73 MPs: 62, none, abstention 11. The name of Chapter Five, as well as art. 155 on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u40	Chapter six: Appeals. A claim to declare the invalidity of a concession contract. It's a claim for collateral. Alternative sanctions. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of Chapter Six: "Appeal. A claim to declare the invalidity of a concession contract. It's a claim for damages. Foreclosures. "Department I" "Appeal." Forming of the complaint The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 156: Art. 156. (1) Any decision of the concession holder under the concession procedure shall be subject to appeal under this Chapter, as well as the decisions of the committee to remove candidates from competition with negotiation and competitive dialogue. (2) The decisions under para. 1 shall be appealed to the KPC on their legality, including on the existence in the notice, in the documentation of the concession or in any other document established in the course of the procedure for determining the concessionaire, of requirements violating the principles of art. 4, para. 1. (3) An appeal under this Chapter shall also be subject to actions or omissions of the concession preventing the access or participation of persons in the procedure for the designation of concessionaire. (4) The actions of the concession holder in issuing the decisions under para. shall not be subject to an independent appeal. 1, as well as the decisions of the Commission outside the ones referred to in para. 1. The decision of the Committee on the exclusion of a participant in an open procedure shall be appealed together with the decision of the concession holder or the decision to terminate the procedure. (5) The decisions under this law adopted by the Council of Ministers and by the municipal council shall not be subject to appeal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 157: Art. 157. (1) An appeal shall be lodged within 10 days of: 1. the publication of the notice of initiation of the notice of amendment in the Official Journal of the European Union, respectively; 2. the notification or notification of the relevant decision, with the exception of the decision of the Committee on the exclusion of a participant in an open procedure, the time limit for the appeal on which the notification of the decision on the designation of a concessionaire starts, respectively, to terminate the procedure; 3. the knowledge of action or omission under art. 156, para. 3 and where the person has not been notified from the date on which the period for carrying out the relevant action has expired, but no later than the conclusion of the concession contract. (2) An appeal may be lodged by: 1. each person concerned in the cases under para. 1, t. 1; 2. any interested candidate and any interested participant in the cases under para. 1, t. 2 and 3. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 158: Art. 158. (1) The complaint shall be submitted to the KPC with a copy to the concession which has organised the procedure for determining the concessionaire. (2) The complaint shall be written in Bulgarian and shall contain: 1. name of the authority to which it is submitted; 2. details of the applicant where it is: (a) a legal person: name, registered office and address of management, and registration data according to the register in which it is entered, if any, as well as an e-mail address and/or a fax for receiving messages and subpoenas; (b) natural person: name, address and identity details, as well as e-mail address and/or fax for receiving messages and subpoenas; (c) a group of economic operators (s) of the relevant data referred to in (a) or (b) for the operator representing the group or for the lead partner; 3. name and address, including the electronic address of the concession which has organised the procedure for determining the concessionaire; 4. details of the procedure for determining the concessionaire and the decision, act or omission to be appealed; 5. alleged infringements on which the complaint is based; 6. the applicant's request; 7. signature of the person who lodges the complaint or of his proxy. (3) The appeal shall be accompanied by: 1. a copy of the contested decision, where it is not published in the Official Journal of the European Union, in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the National concession register; 2. evidence of compliance with the term under art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 1; 3. power of attorney when the complaint is lodged by an agent; 4. a document for a paid state fee fixed by a tariff approved by the Council of Ministers; 5. proof of sending the complaint to the concession; 6. other evidence available to the applicant. (4) Where the complaint does not meet the requirements of para. 2 and para. 3, p. 1-4, the Chairperson of the KPC shall send a communication to the complainant on the removal of irregularities within 5 days. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 159: Art. 159. (1) The Chairperson of the KPC shall not initiate proceedings where: 1. the complaint has been lodged after the expiry of the relevant period under Art. 1. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 1; 2. the irregularities have not been removed within the period referred to in Article 2. 158, para. 4; 3. the complaint was withdrawn before the proceedings were opened; 4. the act, act or omission shall not be subject to appeal. (2) In the cases under para. 1 The Chairperson of the KPC shall return the appeal by order which shall be subject to appeal by a private appeal before a three-member panel of the Supreme Administrative Court within 7 days of the notification of the parties. (3) The Court of Justice shall rule on the private appeal within 14 days of the initiation of the proceedings in closed session by order which shall be final. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 160: Art. 160. (1) Within three days of receipt of the complaint, from the removal of the irregularities respectively, the Chairperson of the KPC by order shall initiate proceedings, formally establish the parties and designate a member of the KPC who shall monitor the examination of the complaint and, where appropriate, give instructions. (2) When an appeal is brought against a decision of a committee, the concession holder shall be constituted as party to the proceedings, which shall organise the procedure for determining the concessionaire. (3) The case shall be notified of the proceedings initiated under the complaint, which shall, within three days of receipt of the notification, forward a written opinion on the complaint to which the entire file of the procedure for determining the exporter on an electronic medium and other evidence, if available, shall be annexed. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 161: Art. 161. (1) After the initiation of the proceedings, the Chairperson of the KPC shall, by order, appoint staff from the Board of Administration of the KPC for carrying out a study on the complaint, hereinafter referred to as the working team. (2) For a concession with classified information, the members of the working team shall be authorised to access classified information to the relevant level in accordance with the requirements of the Classified Information Protection Act. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 162: Art. 162. (1) Upon receipt of the complaint, the committee may review the matter and remedy the infringement alleged in the complaint. The suspension shall be carried out within 7 days of receipt of the complaint and, where the complaint is against a decision to be approved by the Council of Ministers, by the Municipal Council of 14 days respectively. (2) The act remedying the infringement shall be subject to appeal under this Chapter, as para. 1 shall not apply. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 163: Art. 163. The order of Chapter Tenth of the Administrative Procedure Code shall apply to all outstanding issues concerning the appeal procedure before the KPC.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u41	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter Six, the name of Section I of this Chapter and Articles 156 to 163, including on the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: 64, none, abstention 14. The names of Chapter 6 and Section I of that Chapter and Articles up to 163 including those adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u42	"Department II" is a request for the procedure. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for the name of Section II: The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 164: Art. 164. (1) The appeal against a decision determining the concessionaire shall suspend the procedure for determining the concessionaire until the final settlement of the dispute. (2) The appeal against a decision to terminate the procedure, which includes a decision to conduct a new procedure for determining a concessionaire or for conducting a re-trial, shall suspend the new procedure, respectively, until the final settlement of the dispute. (3) Outside the cases under para. 1 and 2 the complaint shall only suspend the procedure for determining the concession holder when a request for suspension has been made. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 165: Art. 165. (1) A request for suspension of the procedure for the designation of concessionaire shall be made at the same time as the submission of the complaint. The request shall be motivated, including by the application of relevant evidence. A request not made at the same time as the complaint shall not be dealt with. (2) The Commission for Protection of Competition shall rule on the request under para. 1 in closed session with a reasoned definition within 7 days of the initiation of the proceedings on the complaint, suspending the procedure or leaving the request without respect. (3) The Commission for Protection of Competition shall rule on the request under para. 1 after assessing the possible consequences of suspension of the procedure for all interests which may be harmed, including the public interest and the national security and defence interests of the country, the life and health of citizens, the environment, protected areas, zones and objects and public order. The assessment shall be carried out on the basis of the claims made on the complaint, the reasons set out in the request under para. 1, the opinion of the concession, if any, and the evidence applied by the parties. (4) The Commission for Protection of Competition may not suspend the procedure where the negative effects on all interests which may be harmed outweigh the benefit of suspension. (5) The pronunciation of the request under para. 1 does not bind the KPC in the matter in substance and does not affect the applicant's other claims. (6) The definition of the KPC of the request under para. 1 shall be subject to appeal by a private appeal before a three-member panel of the Supreme Administrative Court within 5 days of its notification to the parties. The Court of Justice shall rule on the private appeal within 14 days of the initiation of the proceedings in closed session by order which shall be final. (7) The appeal of the definition under para. 2 shall not suspend proceedings under the complaint and the effect of the definition by which the procedure is suspended. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 166: Art. 166. (1) When the appeal lodged shall suspend the procedure for the designation of concessionaire, with its opinion on the complaint under art. 160, para. 3 The concession may request prior enforcement of the contested decision. The request shall be motivated, including by the application of relevant evidence. A request which has been made after the expiry of the term under art. 160, para. Three, it's not under review. (2) The Commission for Protection of Competition shall rule on the request under para. 1 with a reasoned definition in closed session within three days of receipt of the request, allowing for prior execution or leaving the request without respect. Request by para. 1 which contains no reasoning shall be left unattended. (3) The Commission for Protection of Competition shall, exceptionally, allow for prior enforcement in order to ensure the life and health of citizens, to protect particularly important state or public interests, or where significant or difficult damage may follow from the delay of execution, including for the concession site or for the activity to be carried out by the concessionaire. (4) Pre-execution shall not be permitted where the request is justified by economic interests which result in disproportionate consequences, including costs resulting from a delay in the performance of the concession contract or from a new, respectively, re-procurement procedure for the designation of the concessionaire, change of the concessionaire or payment of benefits and/or other penalties. (5) The definition of the KPC on the request under para. 1 shall be subject to appeal by a private appeal before a three-member panel of the Supreme Administrative Court within 5 days of its notification to the parties. (6) The Court of Justice shall rule within 14 days of the initiation of the proceedings in closed session by order which shall be final. (7) The private complaint shall not suspend the proceedings of the complaint but shall suspend the prior implementation granted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 167.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u43	Statements under Section II, together with the articles contained therein with numbers 164 to 167 inclusive? I won't. We vote. Vote 73 MPs: 68 against 1, abstention 4. The texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u44	"Section III" - Review of the complaint. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 168. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 169. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 170. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 171: Art. 171. (1) The delivery of messages and subpoenas shall be carried out electronically at an e-mail address or by fax, as follows: 1. the situation of the address referred to in the notice of initiation; 2. the applicant of the address or fax referred to in the complaint; 3. the other parties at the address at which they have received notifications in the procedure for determining the acquirer, unless they have indicated another address or fax in the appeal proceedings. (2) The messages and subpoenas shall be deemed to have been served with their entry into the specified information system, respectively with the receipt of an automatically generated message confirming the sending by fax and certified by means of a copy of the electronic record, respectively, with a copy of the automatically generated message. (3) Where the applicant, respectively, the parties to para. 1, t. 3 shall have an unknown address or fax, or may not be found at their designated address, they shall be deemed to have been notified by publication of a public register message on the website of the KPC. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 172: Art. 172. (1) Oral and written evidence and expert opinions shall be admitted to the proceedings before the CPC. The Commission for Protection of Competition may refer to information which is publicly available or publicly known. (2) When using expert opinions, the remuneration of experts shall be at the expense of the party requesting the expertise and shall be paid in advance. In the case of the appointment of an expert's expertise at the initiative of the KPC, the remuneration costs of the experts shall be charged to the applicant when the complaint is left without respect or the proceedings terminated and, in other cases, to the concession. (3) The evidence collected in the proceedings before the KPC shall not be disclosed if they are legally protected information, sensitive information or information designated as confidential. Where the evidence contains data representing classified information, the Law on the Protection of Classified Information shall apply. (4) The Parties shall submit all their evidence by the day before the hearing of the complaint at the latest. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 173.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u45	Statements under Section III, together with the articles contained therein with numbers from 168 to 173 inclusive? I won't. We're voting Anblok. Vote 77 MPs: 67 against 1, abstention 9. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u46	"Department IV "Communications of the Commission for Protection of Competition. Suspension of the The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of the name of Section IV: Decisions and definitions of the Commission for Protection of Competition. Suspension of the The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 174: Art. 174. (1) The Commission for the Protection of Competition shall adopt decisions and determine the designated by a clear vote and by a majority of 4 votes. Where less than seven members are present at the meeting, the decision shall be adopted only if at least four members of the committee have voted for it. (2) The Commission for Protection of Competition shall rule on the complaint by a decision within two months of the initiation of the proceedings, where the concession is of cross-border interest, and within one month, where the concession is without a cross-border interest. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 175: Art. 175. (1) The Commission for Protection of Competition in a closed session shall adopt a decision by which: 1. leaves the complaint without respect; 2. annuls the unlawful opening decision; 3. revoke the unlawful decision or act or establish unlawful inaction and with compulsory instructions return the file for the continuation of the procedure for determining the acquirer from the last lawful decision or action and, where applicable, for the termination of the procedure; or 4. Announces the nullity of the decision. (2) Where an contested decision on the designation of concessionaire and prior execution resulting from a concession contract is made, the KPC shall establish the unlawfulness of the decision without canceling it and shall impose on the concession the penalty under art. 183, para. 1. (3) When the concession contract is concluded before the period for its conclusion under art. 120, para. 2 or 3 or in violation of art. 120, para. 4 but no infringement of the procedure for the designation of concessionaire was found, the CSK imposes on the concession the sanction under art. 183, para. 2. (4) In the cases under para. 2 The contract of concession concluded shall remain valid and any person concerned may claim compensation as art. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. (5) The decision of the KPC shall be written and shall contain: 1. date, place of reception and number; 2. the number of the proceedings by which the decision is adopted; 3. factual and legal grounds for its adoption; 4. motives; 5. operative part; 6. a burden on which country the costs are awarded; 7. to which authority and within what time limit the decision may be appealed. (6) A member of the KPC who does not agree with the decision shall sign it with a reasoned particular opinion, which shall apply to the decision. (7) The decision with the reasons, as well as the particular opinions, if any, shall be drawn up and announced at the latest within 14 days of the meeting in which the examination of the claim was completed. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 176: Art. 176. (1) The Commission for Protection of Competition shall decide on the liability for the expenses under the conditions and under the terms of art. 143 of the Administrative Procedure Code. (2) Within the period of appeal, the CPC may, at the request of the parties, supplement or amend the decision adopted in its part of the costs. (3) The Commission for Protection of Competition shall communicate to the other Party the requested addition or modification with an indication of the submission of a response within three days. (4) The order of costs shall be determined in closed session and served on the parties. It may be appealed under the order of art. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 177.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u47	Statements under Section IV with the articles contained therein with numbers 174 to 177 included? I won't. We vote. Vote 85 MPs: for 73, against 1, abstention 11. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u48	Section V "Appeal of the Commission's decisions on protection of competition before the Supreme Administrative Court." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 178: Art. 178. (1) The decision of the KPC shall be subject to appeal before a three-member panel of the Supreme Administrative Court within 14 days of its notification to the parties. (2) The Supreme Administrative Court shall rule within one month of receipt of the appeal and its decision shall be final. (3) The terms and procedure of Chapter 12a of the Administrative Procedure Code shall apply to outstanding issues concerning the appeal proceedings before the KPC. "Department VI............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VI. Under art. 179 has a proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov, Anna Alexandrova and Svilen Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 179: Art. 179. (1) A concession contract which is concluded is invalid: 1. without publication of a concession notice and, in the applicable cases, of a pre-information notice in the European Union................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. without publication of a national publication in the Official Journal... in case of concession without cross-border interest; 3. contrary to the publication of the Official Journal of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Union, respectively, of the opening of the procedure; 4. without a procedure for determining the concessionaire; 5. where, despite the suspension of the procedure for the designation of concessionaire, actions have been carried out under the procedure; 6. before the time limit for the conclusion of the contract starts. (2) The concession contract shall be invalid and where: 1. the concession is not included in the relevant action plan; 2. the procedure for determining the concessionaire has been opened without approval by the relevant authority; 3. in the case of concession for use, the duration of the concession is above the maximum specified by law, and in the case of concession for works or concession for service the period is determined in violation of art. 34, para. 4 or 5; 4. contain an option or a review clause which includes the possibility of extending the concession period beyond the maximum period set by the notice of initiation; 5. in the course of the procedure for determining the concessionaire the reason for its termination under art. 117, para. 3; 6. the content of the contract does not correspond to the minimum content defined in art. 122, para. 2, or contrary to another requirement of this law. (3) No claim may be brought for the declaration of invalidity of a concession contract concluded on the basis of an effective definition of the admission of pre-execution. (4) An application for a declaration of invalidity of a concession contract may bring any person concerned. (5) The request under para. 4 shall be filed in accordance with the Civil Procedure Code within two months of publication in the Official Journal of the European Union of the concession award notice. (6) Where a concession award notice is not published, the claim shall be brought within two months of the recognition, but no later than one year from the conclusion of the concession contract. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 180: Art. 180. (1) Any economic operator having or having had an interest in the conduct of a new procedure for determining the concessionaire may bring an action for invalidity of an additional agreement to amend a concession contract on the basis of art. 137, para. 6 or art. 138, para. 4 under the Civil Procedure Code. (2) The request under para. 1 shall be filed within two months of publication of the notice amending the concession awarded in the Official Journal. Where a notice has not been published, the action shall be brought within two months of the notification, but no later than one year from the conclusion of the supplementary agreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u49	Statements on the two sections reported and the articles contained therein? I won't. Please vote. Vote 73 MPs: 66, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u50	"Department VII" is a claim for damages. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VII. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 181. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 182. "Section VIII" "Alternative sanctions". In principle, the Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of Section VIII The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 183: Art. 183. (1) Where a concession contract has been concluded after prior execution and unlawfulness of the decision determining the concessionaire or nullity of the contested decision has been declared, the KPC by the decision under art. 175, para. 2, respectively, the Supreme Administrative Court with the decision under art. 178, para. 2 imposes on the concession a penalty of 5 per cent of the value of the concession. (2) Sanction in the amount of one per cent of the value of the concession shall be imposed on a concession in the cases referred to in art. 175, para. 3. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 184: Art. 184. The penalties under this section shall be imposed and paid by the budget of the concession which has organised the procedure for determining the concession holder, including where the infringement found was committed by the committee appointed by it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u51	Statements under Sections VII and VIII and the articles contained therein? I won't. Please vote. Vote 76 MPs: 67, none, abstention 9. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u52	The Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union have held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union does not have the power to exercise its powers in the interests of the Court of Justice of the European Union (the Court of Justice of the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7 and the word.................................................................................................................. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 185: Art. 185. (1) Where, prior to the conclusion of a concession contract for concession of cross-border interest, the European Commission informs the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union that a serious infringement of European Union law has been committed in the area of concessions, the Permanent Representation shall forward the notification on the day of receipt of the concession or at the latest on the following working day to the Specialized Directorate of the AMC, as well as to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to the Ministry of Finance. (2) On the day of receipt of the notification, the Director of the Specialized Directorate of the AMC shall send a copy of it to the relevant contingent. (3) Where there is a complaint concerning the infringement referred to by the European Commission, the participant shall inform the Specialized Directorate of the AMC within three days of receipt of the notification under para. 2 and provide information on the course of the appeal proceedings. (4) Outside the cases under para. 3 The situation shall verify the existence of the reasons why the European Commission considers that a serious infringement has been committed. (5) As a result of the verification under para. 4 cases within 14 days of receipt of the notification under para. 2: 1. remedy the infringement, or 2. terminate the procedure with a decision under art. 117, para. 1, t. 4 or 3. by decision it shall suspend the procedure for determining the concessionaire when it considers it unfounded the claims of the European Commission and on the day of issue of the decision it shall refer to the KPC with a request to establish the absence of unlawfulness. (6) Within three days of carrying out the relevant action under para. 5 the concession shall inform the specialized AMC Directorate thereof and shall apply the relevant evidence. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 186: Art. 186. (1) Where the infringement arises from the application of a regulatory act which is not in accordance with European Union law, the concession shall continue the procedure and shall refer to the competent state authority within three days of receipt of the notification under art. 185, para. 2. (2) The authority under para. 1 within 14 days of its referral, the AMC Director-General shall inform it of the measures to comply with European Union law. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 187: Art. 187. (1) In the cases referred to in art. 185, para. 5, t. 3 The KPC within three days of its referral shall form a production and inform the Concedent and the Specialized Directorate of the AMC thereof. (2) For the production under para. 1 shall apply respectively the order of Chapter 6 and shall be constituted as interested candidates or participants. (3) The Commission for Protection of Competition shall adopt a decision establishing the absence of unlawfulness and, where there is unlawfulness, the relevant decision under art. 175, para. 1, t. 2... 4.............................................................. (4) The suspension of the procedure carried out by decision of the concession under art. 185, para. 5, t. 3, there is an action until the final resolution of the dispute with a decision of the KPC in force. (5) The Commission for Protection of Competition and the Supreme Administrative Court shall notify each decision and order in the proceedings under para. 1 within a three-day period of acceptance, respectively, from its delivery. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 188: Art. 188. (1) On the day following receipt of the information under art. 185, para. 3 or the evidence referred to in art. 185, para. 6 but no later than 21 days after receipt of the notification under art. 185, para. 1, the Directorate-General of the AMC shall send to the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union with a copy to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to the Ministry of Finance a reply to the European Commission on the alleged infringement, which shall contain at least: 1. confirmation that the infringement has been resolved, or 2. information on the act by which the procedure has been suspended or terminated and/or the proceedings before the KPC have been initiated, and where the infringement arises from the act of regulation and information on the measures to comply with the law of the European Union. (2) To the answer under para. 1 The relevant evidence shall apply. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 189: Art. 189. The Commission for Protection of Competition and the Supreme Administrative Court shall forward the decisions and definitions of the proceedings under this Chapter to the Specialised Directorate of the AMC within 7 days of their announcement. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 190, with the word "supplied' replaced by "supplied'.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u53	Statements on Chapter 7 with Articles 185 to 190? I won't. They voted 71 MPs: 63, none, abstention 8. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u54	"Chapter 8" "National concession register." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Eight. Under art. 191 has a proposal from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the version until 4 November 2016 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 191: Art. 191. (1) The Council of Ministers, through the specialized Directorate of the AMC, shall maintain a National Concession Register (NCR), which shall record data on concessions. (2) The national concession register shall be maintained as a centralised electronic information system containing a database: 1. for the procedures for determining the concessionaire carried out under this law; 2. for all concessions, regardless of the order of their award or award; 3. with an information section which includes the National Strategy for the Development of concessions, the action plans for state and municipal concessions, the applicable regulations for concessions, guidelines, guidelines and other documents and information related to monitoring, management and control of concessions; 4. with other information related to concessions determined by a decision of the Council of Ministers. (3) The database shall be in electronic form and shall be electronically formed through the exchange of electronic documents and the electronic image of other documents. (4) The electronic database shall be created and maintained in such a way as: 1. ensure data protection against deletion and improper modification; 2. provide access to the AIS for the entry of data by authorised persons; 3. provides information on the precise determination of the date and time of entry of the data. (5) The national concession register may provide the possibility of selecting (selecting) information and receiving analytical references to support strategic development, planning, monitoring, management and control in the area of concessions. (6) The national concession register shall be public and shall be accessible via the Internet. Under art. 192 has a proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 192, para. 3 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new t. is created. 6: It's six. electronic copies of the sub-contracts concluded; 2. Previously on "T." 6 and 7 become respectively. 7 and 8. 3. Previously on "T." 8 becomes t. 9, and after the word "concession', a comma shall be placed and added, including for the payment of a concession fee, and a percentage shall be added. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the version until 4 November 2016 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 192: Art. 192. (1) The national concession register shall contain separate accounts with a unique identifier by type of concessions (state, municipal and joint) for each concession award procedure and for each concession awarded by concession. (2) The account of each procedure for determining the concessionaire under this law shall contain at least: 1. batch identifier and date of its opening; 2. type of concession; 3. name of the concession; 4. type of procedure for determining the concessionaire; 5. a notice of initiation as sent for publication in the Official Journal of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Union, respectively; 6. decisions and notices of correction, where available; 7. documentation of the concession in which the information protected by law and sensitive information is deleted; 8. explanations and additional information provided by the Commission in the conduct of the procedure for determining the concessionaire; 9. decisions of the concession award or concession award, as well as decisions to amend and terminate the concession contract where such decisions have been issued; 10. complaints lodged in the conduct of the procedures for the designation of concessionaire, as well as the definitions and decisions thereof; 11. a written report of the template procedure containing at least the following information: (a) details of the situation; b) data under c. 2 - 4; (c) name of the concession; (d) number of applicants or participants applying; (e) number of candidates or participants removed; (f) number of participants with classified tenders and the name and nationality of those participants; (g) the name and nationality of the participant designated as concessionaire; (h) the estimated value of the concession and the value of the concession as defined in the procedure; (i) the maximum duration of the concession and the duration of the concession as defined in the procedure; (k) date of termination, appropriate termination of the procedure; (l) grounds for termination of the procedure. (3) The lot of each concession shall contain at least: 1. account identifier and opening date; 2. type of concession; 3. name of the concession; 4. a notice of concession awarded where the publication of a concession is required; 5. an electronic image of the original of the concession contract in which the legally protected information, sensitive information and information designated as confidential is deleted; 6. decisions and notices amending the concession contract where applicable; 7. electronic image of any additional agreement to the concession contract 8. information on the performance of the concession contract on a template; 9. information on the contracts for sub-contracting according to the model. (4) The Council of Ministers shall approve the contents of the lots under para. 2 and 3, including samples of the written report under para. 2, p. 11 and the information under para. 3, p. 8 as well as a nomenclature of analytical references under art. 191, para. 5. With the decision referred to in art. 191, para. 2, p. 4 The Council of Ministers may set requirements for the inclusion of the information, as well as a model for its provision in the National concession register. (5) The lot of each concession shall include all changes concerning the entered data. (6) For concessions awarded under this Law, a link shall be provided between the lot of the procedure and the concession account. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 193: Art. 193. (1) The opening of an account, the entry of data and the publication of documents in the National Concession Register shall be carried out by one or more officials designated by the concession. (2) Access of persons under para. 1 to the National Concession Register is carried out with a unique identifier, which is provided by the Specialized Directorate of the AMC at the request of the concession holder. (3) The persons under para. 1 enter the data in the National Concession Register through electronic forms which are maintained on the register website. (4) The persons under para. 1 enter the data and publish the documents in the National Concession Register within the time limits laid down by this Law, but for the entries for which no explicit time limit has been laid down........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (5) The maintenance of the National Concession Register shall be carried out by officials in the Specialized Directorate of the AMC appointed by order of the Prime Minister or of an official appointed by him. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 194., and the word "NCR" is replaced by "National concession register." "Chapter 9" "Administrative-Criminal Provisions." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Ninth. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 195: Art. 195. (1) A concession that violates a principle under art. 4, para. 1 when awarding a concession, including when it has not provided for publication of the relevant notice for opening the procedure, shall be punished with a fine of 2 per cent of the value of the concession, including VAT, but not more than 50 000 BGN. (2) The punishment under para. 1 shall also be imposed on a concession holder who enters into a contract having the characteristics of a concession contract without having a procedure under this Law, except in the cases in Annex No 4. Punishment shall not be imposed when the contract has been concluded following a procedure under the Public Procurement Act. (3) A concession holder who entered into an additional agreement to a concession contract without any grounds for amendment under art. 137-139, is punished with a fine of 10 000 to 15 000 BGN The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 196: Art. 196. (1) A concession that determines the estimated value of a concession in violation of the requirements of art. 28 is punished with a fine of 5,000 to 10 000 BGN. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 is combined with the award of a concession in a lighter order than the one provided for in this Law, the concession is punished with a fine of 2 per cent of the value of the concession contract concluded, including VAT, and where there is no written contract, the fine is 2 per cent of the cost incurred or the obligation to bear the costs, but in any case not more than 20 000 levs. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 197: Art. 197. Member of a committee which has not submitted a request for exemption from the Commission in the case referred to in Article 1. 80, para. 6, p. 2, shall be punished with a fine from 1000 to 2500 BGN, unless the act constitutes a crime. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 198: Art. 198. (1) An official who does not fulfil an obligation to open an account, to enter data, or to publish a document in the National concession register within the established period shall be punished with a fine from 1000 to 2000 BGN. (2) An official who publishes false data in the National Concession Register shall be punished with a fine from 2000 to 5000 BGN, unless the act constitutes a crime. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 199: Art. 199. Person who is a public partner in a public-private company and who does not exercise the blocking quota under art. 22, para. 4 is punished with a fine from 15 000 to 20 000 BGN, unless the act constitutes a crime. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 200: Art. 200. A concession that did not present the APC report under art. 42, para. 3 before the Coordination Council or presented it without a plan schedule for implementation of the recommendations, is punished with a fine of BGN 5000. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 201: Art. 201. (1) The acts establishing infringements under this Law established by the bodies of the Court of Auditors shall be drawn up by authorised auditors within 6 months of the day on which the infringer is detected but not later than three years after the infringement has been committed. (2) Criminal decrees shall be issued by the President of the Court of Auditors or by officials appointed by him. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 202: Art. 202. (1) The acts for the detection of infringements under this Law shall be drawn up by officials of the Agency for State Financial Inspection within 6 months of the day on which the infringer is detected by bodies of the Agency when carrying out a financial inspection or verification, but not later than three years after the infringement has been committed. (2) Criminal decrees shall be issued by the Minister of Finance or by officials appointed by him. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 203: Art. 203. The establishment of infringements, the issuance, appeal and execution of criminal ordinances shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 203, which becomes art. 204: Art. 204. (1) A person who fails to comply with decisions entered into force and/or the definitions of the CPC shall be fined, correspondingly a penalty of 1000 to 50 000 BGN. (2) The Commission for Protection of Competition shall establish the infringement committed and impose the penalties under para. 1 by a decision subject to appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court under Chapter 10 of the Administrative Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u55	That's it. Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u56	Thank you, Madam President. More than an hour ago, regarding the request of colleague Georgi Svilenski, Mr. Glavatchev announced that he will contact the Interior Minister and the Minister of Transport in connection with the situation on Danube Bridge, Ruse and Vidin. Please announce this connection and will the respective ministers come to inform the National Assembly about the situation on Danube Bridge, Vidin and Ruse? Thank you. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u57	Colleagues, I will contact Mr. Glauchev, who is currently not present in plenary to answer your question. Statements? I won't. I'm voting chapters eight and nine. Before that, however, there is an unsupported proposal. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of Mr. Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs under art. 192. We are voting for an unsupported proposal. Vote 77 MPs: 2 against 47, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on both chapters 8 and 9, together with the members contained therein. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 77 MPs: 72, none, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u58	"Additional provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Within 1. An electronic signature is an advanced or qualified electronic signature within the meaning of art. 13, para. 2 and 3 of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature. 2. Electronic means (electronic equipment) for electronic processing, including digital compression, storage and transfer of data via cable, radio waves, optical or other electromagnetic means. 3. An interested candidate is a candidate who is excluded from participating in the procedure for the designation of the acquirer when carrying out the admission and/or selection actions but has not been notified of the removal or appeal proceedings of the decision with which it was removed has not ended. 4. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: 5. A person concerned is a person who has or has had an interest in the conclusion of a concession contract and who has been or may be injured by the alleged infringement. 6. The Member State in which the applicant or participant is established shall be responsible for: (a) the natural persons of their country of birth within the meaning of art. 48 of the Code of Private International Law; (b) the legal persons of the State, determined pursuant to art. 56 of the Code of Private International Law; (c) a group of economic operators... the law of the State of the participant representing the group or leading partner. 7. Innovation is the application of a new or significantly improved product, service or process, including, but not limited to, production or construction processes, of a new marketing method or of a new method of organisation of business, workplace or external relations. 8. "Conflict of interest' is the existence of a private interest in the award of the concession within the meaning of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests for the concession, employees of the concession, or other persons involved in the organisation and conduct of the procedure for determining the concession or may influence the outcome of the concession. 9. The General Terminological Dictionary is a hierarchically structured classification nomenclature divided into sections, groups, classes, categories and sub-categories adopted by Regulation (EC) No 2195/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 November 2002 on the General Public Procurement Terminology Dictionary (CPV). 10. The information referred to as commercial or technical secrecy in the offers of economic operators or concession contracts shall be confidential. 11. The postal service is a service for the reception, transport and delivery of postal items, and courier service within the meaning of the Postal Services Act. 12. "Programme period' is the period corresponding to the corresponding multiannual financial framework of the European Union. 13. "Professional competence' is the existence of knowledge obtained through education or additional qualification and/or skills acquired in the exercise of a particular position or position in the performance of work, work or civil service. 14. "Public funds" is the concept defined in the Law on Financial Management and Control in the Public Sector. 15. The public undertaking is a public undertaking established under art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law, as well as a single commercial company, the capital of which is owned by the State or the municipality concerned. 16. The following are related persons: (a) relatives on a straight line without restriction; (b) relatives on the server line to the fourth degree including; c) relatives of matchmaking to the second degree including; (d) spouses or persons in actual marital cohabitation; (e) partners; (f) the persons one of whom participates in the management of the company of the other; (g) a company and a person holding more than 5 per cent of the shares or shares issued with voting rights in the company; (h) a company whose capital is 100 per cent state or municipal property and a person exercising the rights of the State, respectively, of the municipality, in that company. 17. A similar procedure under the law of the State in which it is established is a procedure similar to insolvency or liquidation within the meaning of the Commercial Law in which the economic operator's assets are managed by a liquidator, by a trade union or by a court where there is an agreement with creditors and its business is terminated or otherwise under the national law of the economic operator. 18. A professional offence is a violation by an economic operator of the applicable laws or regulations or ethical standards of the profession to which it belongs and of intellectual property rights. 19. The legal structure is the overall legal model for settling the relationship between a concession holder and a financing institution, a way of financing and providing collateral, relationships with consumers, liability to other persons in the performance of the construction and/or services, delay or termination conditions, acquisition and transfer of ownership or return of the concession entity, as well as any other legal issues relevant to the award of the concession. The legal structure shall include the relationship between the partners in a public-private company, the relationship of the concession holder in cases where a group of economic operators is involved or the establishment of a project company is envisaged. 20. "NUTS' is the nomenclature of territorial units for statistical purposes under Regulation (EC) No 1059/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 May 2003 establishing a common classification of territorial units for statistical purposes (NUTS). There is a proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: In § 1, t. The second sentence is created: "The value of the concession and the concession remuneration due cannot be confidential information.' The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u59	There is one proposal that is not supported by the Commission. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's unsupported proposal by Chavdar Georgiev. They voted 73 MPs: 8 against 43, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. Now, honourable Members, we are voting on the text of the importer for the name of the division, which is supported by the Commission, as well as the version of § 1 and § 2. Vote 76 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, with the words "art." 38, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 39............................................................................... There is a proposal from the MP Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs: screated § 4a: .................................................................................. (1) Within three months of the adoption of the Law, the Council of Ministers shall review and submit to the National Assembly a report on the existing State concessions granted under the repealed Law on concessions, the Law on Underground Resources and the Water Act, which contains: number; type of concession; date of conclusion, and the assumptions of continuation or extension of the period and date of extension/extension; material interest in the grant contract; time limit; due concession remuneration and/or more. payments under the contract. (2) The provision of § 5 shall not apply to concession contracts concluded under or containing clearly unfavorable conditions to the State for which the Council of Ministers has negotiated, respectively "the ministers concerned may propose the necessary amendments. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposition by the MPs Borislav Velikov and Vili Lilkov: In § 5: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The concession contracts concluded until the entry into force of this Act shall remain valid for the period fixed by the contract or with an additional agreement entered into force thereto. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The provisions of this Law shall apply to subcontractors under concession contracts concluded until the entry into force of the law, unless otherwise agreed in the contract. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov, Anna Alexandrova and Svilen Ivanov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Svilen Ivanov and Anna Alexandrova according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure until 4 November 2016 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. (1) The concession contracts concluded until the entry into force of this Act shall remain effective and shall be implemented in accordance with the conditions agreed therein. (2) The provisions of this Law concerning the implementation, amendment, including the term and termination of concession contracts shall apply to the concession contracts concluded until the entry into force of the law, insofar as this does not conflict with the contract agreement. In the event of amendment of a contract under para. 1 shall be published a notice amending the concession awarded in accordance with art. 141, para. 3. (3) The consequences of the termination of the contracts under para. 1 shall be governed by the law applicable at the date of conclusion of the contract. (4) The provisions of this Law shall also apply to subcontractors under concession contracts concluded until its entry into force. The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... Within 6 months of the entry into force of this Act, the Council of Ministers shall: 1. adopt the regulations referred to in Article 1. 35 and 44; 2. establish the rules of procedure of the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control in accordance with this law; 3. approves a tariff for the fees to be collected in Chapter Six proceedings The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... Within 6 months of the entry into force of this Act, the Council of Ministers approves the National Strategy for the Development of concessions. The Commission proposes to create a new § 8: ................................................................................... Within three months of the approval of the National Strategy for the Development of concessions, the Council of Ministers and municipal councils shall approve an action plan for state concessions, respectively a plan for the action of municipal concessions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u61	Speeches, honourable colleagues? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of MP Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 73 MPs: 20, against 38, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Borislav Velikov and Willi Lilkov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 71 MPs: for 7, against 13, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. Now, honourable Members, we are voting on the text of the importer, supported by the Commission, on the move and final provisions. § 3 supported by the Commission; § 4. 38, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 39 and § 5; and new paragraphs 6, 7 and 8. Vote 72 MPs: 65, no objection, abstention 7. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u62	Paragraph 6? a proposal from the MPs Borislav Velikov and Vili Lilkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure until 4 November 2016 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 9: § 9. In the Water Act (Obn., SG...) the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17a, para. 1 the words in the order of the law on the concessionaires shall be deleted. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1, text before t. 1 is amended as follows: The concession documents for water, as well as the water systems and water farm facilities for public municipal property shall be determined: (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The concession contract defines the specific obligations of the concessionaire to ensure the general use of water and water sites and the existing water use rights in the water supply. (c) in para. 5 the word "Presents" is replaced by "Presents." 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, para. 4 and 5 are canceled. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Council of Ministers shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation and in accordance with the procedure laid down in Regulation of the Council of Ministers, which shall be adopted by the Council of Ministers in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 and Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 (b) in para. 4 The words shall be established the concession law under the conditions and under the procedure of art. 81 of the concession fee Act shall be replaced by the site of the concession. (c) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: (5) Subject of the concession under para. 1 is the specific site of mineral water, along with the water system and the inner belt of its sanitary and security zone. (d) a new para shall be created. 8. By participating in the procedure under para. 1 is removed from the participant: 1. for whom is defined by the Law on concessions grounds for exclusion; 2. which does not meet the requirements for professional or technical capabilities laid down by the decision to initiate the procedure or the financial and economic situation of the participants. (e) in para. 9 the words of the Council of Ministers for the opening of a procedure for granting a State concession, respectively in the decision of the municipal council................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (f) paragraph 10 is amended as follows: A mineral water extraction concession shall be awarded for up to 35 years. 5. Article 47a is amended as follows: Art. 47a. (1) Construction concession, service concession or concession for the use of water systems and facilities, including hydrotechnical, hydroelectric, hydromeliorative, water supply and sewerage systems and facilities, shall be awarded under the terms and conditions of the concession law. (2) The integrated water systems under which the competent ministers are different shall be awarded as mixed concessions. (3) In the case of the award of concessions for water systems and facilities, the justification of the concession under art. 58 of the concession law also contains a water farm analysis, which includes: 1. relevant to the site of the concession provision of the existing planning and water farm plans for the respective territories and aquators; 2. an assessment of the appropriateness of the award of the concession for the water farm system, respectively, for the water farm, in accordance with: (a) water farm plans have entered into force; (b) the existing water business relations within the scope concerned; 3. individualization of the site of the concession, including data from the specialized maps, registers and information system on the site of the concession; 4. water and water balance; 5. schemes and variants with the basic parameters of the concession site; 6. technical and economic justifications and assessments. (4) The draft decision to initiate the procedure for determining the concession and the justification of the concession for water systems and facilities shall be bindingly agreed with the Minister of Environment and Water in cases where the Minister is not a concession. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47b, para. 4 Finally, the words "Section II" shall be deleted. 7. In 47c, para. 1, t. 1 the words in the order of the law on the concessionaires shall be deleted. 8. In Chapter Six, the name "Section I' is deleted and the right to water consumption and use of water systems and facilities is deleted. 9. Articles 93, 94, 95, 96 and 97 are repealed. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 99 the word "Customs' is replaced by "Rustling'. 11. A new article shall be created. 102: Art. 102. (1) The procedure for determining the concessionaire for mineral water extraction shall be opened by a decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal of the Minister of Environment and Water, respectively by a decision of the municipal council on a proposal of the mayor of the municipality. (2) With the decision under para. 1 shall be determined: Dear Mr. President, from here and in some of the following texts there is a technical error in numbering, which is why I am asking to read the correct numbering and to consider it to be my proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u63	Read, she'll be the one to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u64	Yeah. "1." the object and object of the concession; 2. the maximum duration of the concession; 3. the starting date of the concession; 4. the conditions for the implementation of the concession; 5. the fundamental rights and obligations of the concession contract; 6. the conditions and/or prohibitions for the lease of the concession and for the provision of activities for the maintenance of the concession; 7. the type and amount of guarantees to fulfil the obligations under the concession contract and/or other collateral; 8. the conditions and amount of the concession payment, including: (a) the amount of the one-off concession payment due at the date of entry into force of the concession contract; (b) the mechanism for the annual update of the concession payment; (c) the order for making the concession payment; (d) the maximum grace period during which the concessionaire is exempted from the obligation to pay the concession payment annually................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 9. the conditions and timetable for the phase-out of the allocated resource; 10. requirements related to the national security and defence of the country; 11. the conditions for the protection of the environment, human health and protected areas, zones and sites; 12. the obligation of the concessionaire to insure for the duration of the concession on its own account and in favour of the concession holder's concession at the site of the concession; 13. the obligations of the concessionaire to build and maintain by its means of infrastructure and facilities for the public use of free resources mineral water not covered by the concession contract; 14. the circumstances of a factual or legal nature, the occurrence or modification of which may lead to a breach of the balance defined by the contract between benefits and risks to the concessionaire and the concession, as well as the consequences of an imbalance; 15. other requirements related to the nature of the concession. (3) The procedure shall end with a decision of the relevant authority under para. 1 for the designation of concessionaire. (4) The decisions under para. 1 and 3 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be subject to appeal within 14 days under the Administrative Procedure Code. (5) Within one month of the entry into force of the decision under para. 3 The Minister of Environment and Water, respectively the mayor of the municipality, concluded a concession contract with the participant in the procedure designated as concessionaire. (6) The provisions of the Commercial Law and the Law on Obligations and Contracts shall apply accordingly to outstanding matters concerning the conclusion, implementation, modification and termination of the concession contract for mineral water extraction. (7) Disputes concerning the conclusion, implementation, modification and termination of a concession contract shall be settled under the Civil Procedure Code. 12. In Chapter Six, the name "Section II' is deleted. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 102a The following amendments shall be made: (a) in para. 2 t. 7 is amended as follows: "7." documents to verify the absence of grounds for exclusion laid down by the concession law; (b) paragraph 7 is amended as follows: The decision to grant a concession for mining mineral water by law shall be subject to the requirements of art. 102, para. 2. The decision also defines the person to whom the concession is granted. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 102c, t. 5 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 47, para. 15. Article 102f is repealed. 16. Article 195 is amended as follows: Art. 195. For mineral water extraction, the concession fee shall be paid to the concession holder. 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 1 the words "selects a water operator" shall be replaced by "sent representatives" to the committee which conducts the procedure for determining a (b) c. 6 the words the concession payment, if such is determined, or deleted from the concession payment. 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 198d, t. 1 the words "or chooses a water operator under the Law of the concessionaires" shall be deleted. 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 198d, para. 4 words from the concession payment or the concession payment are deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u65	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the time is 15:00 p.m. At 15.40 p.m. we will continue the vote on the version of § 6, which becomes § 9, we will perform at 15.40 p.m. Thirty-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u66	Dear Members, we are continuing today's plenary session. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs to the Chamber! Before your break, § 6 was presented by importer, which became § 9, with the corresponding adjustments, as were made by the MP Danail Kirilov from the parliamentary tribune. We move on to the vote on § 6, which becomes § 9. We are voting § 9 on the Commission report. They voted 83 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 5. Paragraph 9 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u67	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10 which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In the Law on the State Gazette (prom., SG...) in art. 7th para. 2 is amended as follows: The notices, for which the Law on concessions provides publication, are published on the website of the Official Journal of the European Union. Dear Mr. Chairman, I would like to do a technical editing for § 11 and read it like this: The applicant shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 14, i.e. 11 is amended as follows: "11." in art. 73 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier' and the words "or under a public private partnership contract' are deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 17, in c. 1 point (a) shall be added after the word "concession', after the word "study', after the word "study'. 2 point (a) is added after the word (s) of the study (s) and is added (s) for the study (s). According to § 15 there is a proposal from Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. The Law on Cultural Heritage (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 3 t. 3 is canceled. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. 1 t. 10 is amended as follows: ..10. performs the powers of concession in the award of concessions for real cultural values.. State property;.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 is created t. 3: "3." carry out the powers of concession in the award of concessions for real cultural values. (b) in para. 2 t. Two is canceled. 4. Article 86 is amended as follows: Art. 86. (1) For the real cultural values of state and municipal property, a concession may be awarded under the terms and conditions of the Law on concessions and subject to the requirements of this Law. (2) In the award and execution of a concession for a real cultural property, the regimes for the preservation of the cultural property shall be observed, as well as the conditions for carrying out an integrated conservation. (3) Subject of concession may be one or more single or group cultural values or parts thereof. (4) The concession shall determine a concessional territory covering the territorial scope of the concession site in so far as the properties covered by this scope are state-owned, municipal property respectively. The site of the concession may also include a maintenance area which is a territory necessary to carry out the concession activities in so far as the properties included in the concession are state-owned, respectively municipal property. (5) The concession area and the area of the maintenance zone shall be determined with a detailed development plan, subject to the conservation regimes of the specific property. 5. Article 87 is amended as follows: Art. 87. (1) Construction of technical infrastructure, buildings or facilities on the concessional territory and/or on the maintenance area may be carried out in the case of a concession for a real cultural property. (2) Construction may be carried out only if it is compatible with the regimes for the conservation of the real cultural value concerned and is necessary for concession activities. (3) When the execution of the works is awarded by the concession, the concession shall be defined as a concession for construction and the concession shall determine the type and volume of the works and the requirements for its implementation. (4) Notwithstanding the subject-matter of the concession, in the performance of the concession contract, the concession holder may place on the concessionable territory and on the maintenance area movable objects related to the performance of the concession subject to the requirements of that law. 6. Article 89 is amended as follows: Art. 89. (1) In carrying out the preparatory actions and in the committees for the conduct of a procedure for determining the concession holder for real cultural value participates at least one representative of NIKN, and when the site of the concession includes archaeological real cultural values and representative of the National Archaeological Institute and Museum at BAS (NAIM at BAS). (2) Procedure for determining the concession holder for a real cultural property shall be opened after a positive opinion on compliance with the requirements of this NIKN law, and for the archaeological real cultural values and by NAIM at BAS. The concession shall apply to the request for an opinion the justification of the concession. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2 the words "the territory of the concession property' are replaced by "the territory of concession'; (b) paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The concession shall be granted for up to 20 years. Where the concession is for use, the concession period may be extended to 15 years if it is not established under the proper procedure that the obligations under the concession contract are not defaulted. Where the concession is for works or services, the modification of the concession contract, including the duration of the concession, may only be carried out under the terms and conditions of the concession law. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the word "supplied' is replaced by "rewarded' and the words "under the terms and conditions of art. 81 of the Fees and Fees Act are deleted; (b) in para. 3 the word "supplies' is replaced by "rewardes'.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u68	Statements? There are no speeches. First, I put to the vote the editorial supplement to § 14, as presented by the MP Anna Alexandrova from the parliamentary tribune. Vote 87 MPs: 83 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 10 to 18 including, on the Commission's report. Vote 87 MPs: 85 against 1, abstention 1. Paragraphs 10 to 18, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u69	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm The Law on medicinal plants (prom., SG...) makes the following amendments: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 the words are settled in accordance with the requirements and are replaced by the concession for use under the terms and conditions of the concession. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8 the words "the concession contract' shall be replaced by "the concession contract' and the words "the special law' shall be replaced by "the concession contract'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18 which shall become § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 22. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 23. Under § 21, there is a proposal from the MPs Daniela Saveklieva and Daniel Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. The Public Procurement Act shall make the following amendments: 1. In § 2 of the Additional Provisions, i.e. 47, point (a) is inserted after the word "consequences" and added to the Law on Underground Acquisitions. 2. Paragraph 15 of the Transitional and Final Provisions is repealed. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Law on Municipal Property makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 2 words, except where the Public-Private Partnership Act is applicable, shall be deleted; (b) in para. 9. (aa) in the text before t. 1 in a sentence first after the word "adopter" is added an action plan for municipal concessions in accordance with the Law on concessions and a sentence third, the words "department for municipal public-private partnerships of the programme for the implementation of the municipal development plan" shall be replaced by the action plan for municipal-private partnerships. (bb) c. 2 the words "for public-private partnership or for the provision of' shall be replaced by "supplier'; (c) in para. 10 After the words "Strategy" under para. The action plan for the municipalities is added. (d) in para. 11 the words "public-private partnership' shall be replaced by "concessions'; (e) paragraph 12 is repealed. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, para. 4 sentence 2 after the words "use" or "supplied" is added and the words "in the case of public-private partnership" are deleted at the expense of the partner defined in the contract. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The municipality and the commercial companies with more than 50 per cent of municipal capital participation may establish or participate in commercial companies whose capital is not entirely their own after a decision of the municipal council. Participation may have a cash or non-cash contribution. (b) paragraphs 2 and 3 are repealed. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. the second sentence is deleted; (b) A new para shall be created. 2: Where the capital of which the non-cash contribution is paid into the trading company has a private participation, the municipality shall have a blocking quota in the decision: 1. amendment of the statutes or of the company contract; 2. increase and decrease of capital; 3. conclusion of the transactions under art. 236, para. 2 of the Commercial Law; 4. carrying out instrumental transactions in property subject to a non-cash contribution of the public partner; 5. conversion and termination of the c) the current para. 2 becomes para. 5 and in its third sentence is deleted. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54 the words "supplied" shall be deleted after the word "supplied" and the words "or the Public-Private Partnership Act" shall be deleted. 6. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Nine is canceled. 7. Paragraphs 19a and 19b of the Transitional and Final Provisions shall be repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u70	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 19 to 25, including on the Commission's report. Vote 89 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 3. Paragraphs 19 to 25, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u71	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23 which shall become § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 27. Under § 25, there is a proposal from the MPs Daniela Saveklieva and Daniel Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 The Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act makes the following amendments and additions: 1. Article 5 is amended as follows: Art. 5. (1) In the case of the sale of shares through a public offering, the Privatization Agency and after privatisation control or municipal councils shall award the preparation and conclusion of a privatisation transaction after a competition of investment firms. (2) The Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency and the municipal councils may entrust to third parties the carrying out of expert activities related to the preparation of privatisation or post-privatization control, including procedural representation, under conditions and by order specified by the Council of Ministers. The evaluation shall be awarded to independent valuers under the Independent Evaluators Act. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22a, para. The second sentence is created: The Agency for Privatization and Post-Privatization Control may also be entrusted with other functions defined by law. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 4 t. 10 is amended as follows: ..10. may bring claims relating to or arising from concluded privatisation contracts, or from concluded agreements, or an agreement under point (c). 8 in connection with para. 5-8, or from trust accounts, bank guarantees or other transaction documents, as well as may be a defendant to such claims before a court or arbitration. (b) in para. 5 after the word "instructions" shall be added to the list, and after the word "instructions" shall be added, for which an executive sheet has been issued. 4. In the name of Chapter Eight, the words "Concessions" and "Concessions" are deleted. 5. Articles 36 "38" shall be repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u72	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 26 to 28, including on the Commission's report. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. Paragraphs 26 to 28 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u73	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 29. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27, which shall become § 30: 30. The Roads Act shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the word "supplier" is replaced by "supplier" is replaced by "supplier" is replaced by "supplier"; (b) in para. 2 the words "In the decision to initiate the procedure for granting the concession" shall be replaced by "In the case of the documents for participation under art. 78, para. 1 of the Services Act. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 2, p. 2 the word "supplied' is deleted; 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19a, para. 2 t. Two is canceled. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20, para. 3 A sentence is created second: the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works awards concessions for Republican roads and for road facilities (bridges and tunnels). 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, para. 3 t. 6 is amended as follows: It's six. assist the Minister for Regional Development and Public Works in carrying out the preparatory actions and carrying out the control of the implementation of concession contracts for Republican roads and road facilities (bridges and tunnels); 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21c, para. 1 t. 8 is repealed; 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21 г. 4 is repealed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 31. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Tourism in art. 6 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 28 words on the basis of a public-private partnership shall be deleted. 2. Point 35 is amended as follows: It's 35. performs the powers of concession for sea beaches and organises and implements the activity of renting on sea beaches which are not granted to a concession; The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 30, which shall become § 33: ................................................ The Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast (prom., SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. The first sentence is amended as follows: The sea beaches or parts thereof with their aquatory are managed and maintained by the award of a concession for services under the terms and conditions of the Law on concessions and subject to the requirements of this Law. (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The concession for the sea beach of the beneficiary shall be entrusted with carrying out the water rescue activities, securing the adjacent aquatory, health and medical care and sanitary maintenance of the sea beach, hereinafter referred to as The concessioner provides free and free access on the sea beach and places indicative signs with schemes of the individual zones and the terms of the concession. (c) New paragraphs 3 and 4 shall be established: The concessionaire pays the concession fee to the concession holder under the terms of the concession law. (4) Sea beaches or parts thereof not granted to a concession shall be managed by the Minister of Tourism. (d) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The Minister of Tourism may award sea beaches under para. 4 or parts of them for rent for up to 5 years, provided that the estimated value of the renter's income is not greater than the European threshold within the meaning of the concession law. The tenant of the sea beach is obliged to carry out the mandatory activities and to pay a rental price. Renting is carried out by means of an auction under the terms and conditions of the Rules for Implementation of the State Property Act. (e) in para. 7 the words which are not provided to the "supplier" shall be replaced by the words "supplier," after the words "concession" or "supplier" shall be added, and the words "supplier" shall be replaced by the "internet" page. (f) in para. 8 sentences are created second and third: The scheme shall be presented by 31 April of the year in question. The carrying out of the water rescue activity shall be entrusted by the Minister of Tourism and/or by the Regional Governor by means of a public procurement. (g) paragraph 9 is amended as follows: Sea beaches with their adjacent aquatory within the protected areas referred to in Annex No 2 to the Protected Areas Act, as well as sea beaches for natural tourism listed in the Annex, cannot be awarded a concession or rented out. (h) paragraph 10 is amended as follows: The construction concession for the construction of artificial sea beaches on properties can be awarded under the terms and conditions of the Law on concessions. (i) paragraph 11 is repealed. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Minister of Tourism shall exercise the powers of a concession, open the auctions for renting, concluding and controlling the implementation of the contracts for sea beaches. (b) in para. 2 all over the word "payment" is replaced by "reward" and the words "art." 81 of the.s. are deleted; (c) in para. 3 the word "payment' is replaced by "reward'. 3. Chapter 2?................................................................................ 8a-8p canceled. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier' and everywhere the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier'; (b) in para. 2 the word "supplies" is replaced by "rewardes" and the words "supplies," benefits and sale of documents for participation" shall be replaced by "supplies and benefits" shall be replaced by "supplies and benefits" shall be replaced by "suppliers" and "suppliers" shall be replaced by "suppliers" and "suppliers" shall be replaced by "suppliers" and "suppliers" shall be replaced by "suppliers" and "suppliers" shall be replaced by "suppliers." (c) paragraph 3 is repealed. (d) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The financing of the activities for the award of concessions for sea beaches is carried out under the Law on concessions. 5. In § 1 of the additional provisions, point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 is repealed. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31, which shall become § 34: ................. The Law on Construction in the Area (prom., SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 131, para. 1 the words the owners and holders of limited rights shall be replaced by the holders, the holders of limited rights and the holders of the property rights and the holders of the rights and the persons to whom the concession is granted shall be deleted. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 134, para. 2, p. 6 is added at the end of the year. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Reg. 232. 7 is repealed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 35. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 33, which shall become § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. The Labour Code (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments: 1. The title is amended as follows: 2. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The employment relationship with the worker or employee shall not be terminated if the employer changes in the case of the lease or lease of a particular part of the employer. The employment relationship with a worker or employee shall not also be terminated upon the award of a concession in the subject matter of which activities relating to the nature of the employment contract are included, or the site in which the place of employment is located, is included in the site of the concession. 3. In para. 4 the word "concession' is replaced by "concession contract'. The Commission proposes to create a new § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In the Environmental Protection Act (prom., SG...) in art. 36, para. 2, p. 3 the word "supplier" is replaced by "supplier." According to § 34 the proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer, as para. The 2-5 are reflected in their systematic position in § 6-8 and proposes the following version of § 34, which becomes § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... (1) The law shall enter into force within three months of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of: 1. Article 45, para. 5, which shall enter into force within 12 months of the promulgation of the law in the State Gazette; 2. Article 191, para. Art. 2-5, Art. Art. 192, Art. 193, which shall enter into force from 31 January 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u74	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 29 to 38, including on the Commission's report. Vote 84 MPs: 79, none, abstention 5. Paragraphs 29 to 38 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u75	Annex 1 to art. 7, para. 2, p. 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u76	Statements? I won't. We vote Annex 1 to art. 7, para. 2, p. 2. The text of the Annex 1 importer is supported by the Commission. The Annex shall be an integral part of the report. Vote 77 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 3. Annex 1 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u77	Annex 2 to art. 8, para. 2. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of Annex 2: Annex 2 to art. 8, para. 2 Activities for the implementation of which a service concession may be awarded (sector activities) 1. Gas and heat related activities: (a) provision or operation of fixed public service networks in connection with the production, transport or distribution of gas or heat; (b) supply of such fixed networks with gas or heat. The supply of gas or heat to fixed public service networks shall not be considered to be activity under this point. 1 where the following conditions are met: (aa) the production of gas or heat energy is inevitable from the performance of activities different from those referred to in paragraph 1. 1 or c. 2 and 3; (bb) the supply of the public network aims only at the economic exploitation of such production and does not amount to more than 20 per cent of the manufacturer's turnover, taking into account the average for the previous three years, including the current year. The supply includes generation/production, wholesale and retail gas and does not include production of gas in the form of extraction. 2. Electricity-related activities: (a) the provision or operation of fixed public service networks in relation to the production, transmission or distribution of electricity; (b) the supply of electricity to such fixed networks. Electricity supply includes generation/production, wholesale and retail of electricity. The provision of electricity to public service networks is not considered to be an activity under this heading. 2 where the following conditions are met: (aa) the production of electricity is carried out because its consumption is necessary to carry out an activity other than those mentioned in paragraph 1. 1-3; (bb) the supply of the public network depends only on the manufacturer's own consumption and does not exceed 30 percent of its total energy production, taking into account the average for the previous three years, including the current year. 3. Activities in connection with the provision or operation of public service networks in the area of automated transport systems, tram, trolleybus, bus or cable. With regard to transport services, a network shall be considered to exist when the service is provided under operating conditions established by a competent authority and may include the conditions for service routes, the capacity to be available or the frequency of the service. 4. Activities related to the operation of a geographical area to provide airports and sea or inland ports or other terminals of air, sea or inland waterway carriers. 5. Activities related to the provision of: (a) postal services; (b) Other services other than postal services shall be services for which the conditions under art. 130 of the Public Procurement Act, and if they are provided by an entity which also provides services under the letter.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For the purposes of this Annex: (aa) A consignment of mail is addressed in the final form in which it is transported regardless of weight; in addition to correspondent consignments, such consignments include books, catalogues, newspapers, periodicals and postal parcels containing goods of or without commercial value, regardless of weight; (bb) The postal services are services consisting of the collection, sorting, transport and delivery of postal items, whether they fall within the scope of the universal postal service within the meaning of the Postal Services Act or outside its scope; (c) Other services other than postal services are services provided in the following areas: - mail service services (both the services that precede and the services that follow the dispatch, including - postal services not covered by a letter (s), such as direct correspondence without an address.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u78	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer, edited by the Commission, supported by the same, for Annex 2 to art. 8, para. 2. We are voting on Annex 2 on the Commission report. Vote 74 MPs: 70, none, abstention 4. Annex 2 to the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u79	Annex 3 to art. 8, para. 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex 3 which is attached in tabular form to the report. Annex 4 to art. 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version of Annex 4: Annex 4 to art. 26 Activities or contracts involving works or services to which this law does not apply Section I List of exceptions from the scope of the law 1. Contracts for services performed by an economic operator on the basis of an exclusive right. The right shall be exclusive where it has arisen under a regulatory or administrative act in accordance with the rules on market access laid down by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and with the law of the European Union which restricts the exercise of a particular activity to an economic operator. 2. Air Services Contracts based on the issue of an operating licence within the meaning of Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 September 2008. on common rules for the operation of air services in the Community or for public passenger services concessions within the meaning of Regulation (EC) No 1370/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2007 on public passenger transport services by rail and road and repealing Council Regulations (EEC) No 1191/69 and (EEC) No 1107/70. 3. Contracts which the contracting authority is obliged to award or organise in accordance with procedures established with: (a) an international agreement concluded in accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union between the Republic of Bulgaria and one or more third countries or their subdivisions, for works, supplies or services intended for the joint implementation or operation of a project by the signatory parties; (b) the rules of an international organisation or international financing institution where the relevant concession is fully financed by the organisation or institution concerned; in the case of concessions co-financed primarily by an international organisation or an international financing institution, the Parties agree the applicable award procedures. 4. Contracts in defence and security areas (a) to which special procedural rules apply: (aa) under an international agreement or contracts concluded by the Republic of Bulgaria alone or with other Member States of the European Union with one or more third countries; (bb) designated by an international agreement or contracts relating to the deployment of troops and relating to undertakings of a Member State of the European Union or of a third country; (c) to an international organisation that purchases for its own purposes or for concessions to be awarded by a Member State of the European Union in accordance with those rules; (b) for which the enforcement of the law is linked to the provision by the Republic of Bulgaria of information whose disclosure is contrary to the essential security interests or where the award and execution of the concession is declared confidential or must be accompanied by special security measures under the legislation in force in order to protect the fundamental security interests of the State; (c) which have been awarded under a cooperation programme under art. 149, para. 1, t. 4 of the Public Procurement Act; (d) which have been awarded by the Republic of Bulgaria to another Member State of the European Union in respect of: (aa) construction and services directly related to military equipment or equipment related to classified information; (bb) construction and services specially designed for military purposes or for the purpose of protecting classified information; (e) which are assigned in a third country and implemented in the deployment of forces outside the territory of the European Union where operational needs require the conclusion of those contracts with economic operators established in the area of operations; (f) in which the protection of the essential security interests of the Republic of Bulgaria cannot be ensured by measures with less interference, for example by imposing requirements aimed at protecting the confidential nature of the information provided by the concession holder in the course of a concession award procedure as provided for in that law. 5. Service contracts for: (a) acquisition or hiring, by whatever means, of land, existing buildings or other immovable property or rights on them; (b) the acquisition, development, production or co-production of transmission material intended for audiovisual media services or radio services awarded by radio or audiovisual media service providers or programme time concessions or transmission provision to radio or audiovisual media service providers; (c) arbitration and conciliation services; (d) legal services related to: (aa) representation of a client by a lawyer or by a lawyer in an arbitration or conciliation procedure in a Member State of the European Union, a third country or before an international arbitration or conciliation court, or in proceedings before a court, jurisdiction or public authority of a Member State of the European Union, or a third country, or before an international court, jurisdiction or institution; (bb) the provision of legal advice by a law firm or by a lawyer in the preparation of proceedings under the letter "a' and the provision of legal advice on matters which may become the subject of proceedings under the letter "a'; (c) verification and validation of documents which must be carried out by a notary; (d) the provision by persons designated by a court or competent authority or by law, with the execution of the services under the supervision of the court or competent authority; (e) the exercise of governmental functions, including judicial performance services provided by a bailiff; (e) in the case of financial services related to the issue, sale, purchase or transfer of securities or other financial instruments within the meaning of art. 3 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act, central bank services and operations carried out with the European Financial Stability Facility and the European Stability Mechanism; (f) loans, whether related to the issue, sale, purchase or transfer of securities or other financial instruments; (g) civil defence, civil protection and the prevention of hazards provided by non-profit legal entities falling within the scope of CPV codes 75250000-3, 75251000-0, 75251100-1, 75251110-4, 75251120-7, 75252000-7, 75222000-8, 98113100-9 and 85143000-3 except for ambulance patients; (h) services related to political campaigns covered by CPV codes 79341400-0, 92111230-3 and 92111240-6 when awarded by a political party under an election campaign. 6. Contracts for the organisation of lotteries covered by CPV code 92351100-7 which are awarded to an economic operator on the basis of an exclusive right. 7. Contracts relating to the provision or operation of public electronic communications networks or the provision of one or more public electronic communications services within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 39, respectively. 40 of the additional provisions of the Law on Electronic Communications. 8. Contracts for concession which, irrespective of their subject-matter, are awarded by a concession to a legal person for which the following conditions are simultaneously: (a) the situation itself, or in conjunction with one or more other entities, exercises control over the legal person similar to that which exercises control over its own structural units; (b) more than 80 percent of the activity of the legal person is formed by the implementation of activities entrusted by the concession or by its separate bodies or by other legal entities controlled by the concession; (c) there is no direct private capital participation in the legal person, except for one that is not related to control or blocking powers and does not have a decisive influence on the activities of the legal person. 9. Contracts for concession contracts which, irrespective of their subject-matter, have been concluded between two or more concession contracts where the following conditions are met at the same time: (a) the contract shall establish or cooperate between the Parties in order to ensure that their obligations to provide services to the public are fulfilled with a view to achieving common objectives; (b) cooperation shall be governed solely by public interest considerations; (c) over the last three years, the participants have carried out less than 20 percent of the cooperation activity on the free market. 10. Contracts for concession awarded to a legal person under point (c) 8 out of two or more conces, provided that the Joint Undertaking is set up to carry out the relevant activity for a period of at least three years, and that the constituent act of the Joint Undertaking provides that the Joint Undertakings established it shall retain its participation in it for at least the same period. Section II - Special rules for the application of some of the.............................................................................................. 1. In cases of e.g. Article 8 (a) (ii) of Section I: (a) the entity exercises control over the legal person similar to that which exercises control over its own structural units where it has a decisive influence on the strategic objectives and significant decisions of that legal person. Such control may also be exercised by another legal person controlled in the same way by the concession; (b) the participants shall exercise joint control over a legal person where the following conditions are met at the same time: (aa) the management and control bodies of the legal person shall consist of representatives of all the entities involved in the control, and the individual representatives may represent several or all of the entities involved; (bb) such entities may jointly exert a decisive influence on the strategic objectives and significant decisions of the legal person; (c) the legal person does not have any interests which are contrary to the interests of the controlling parties. 2. In cases of e.g. 8 and 9 of Section I, when determining the percentage of activity, account shall be taken of the average total turnover or other appropriate indicator that measures the performance of the activity over the last three years. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u80	My fellow Members, it is not respectful of the rapporteur! Meeting in session!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u81	"3." In cases of e.g. 8 and 9 of Section I, where, due to the date of establishment or the start of the business of the legal person or the concession or because of the reorganization of its activity, there is no record of turnover or where that data is no longer relevant, it is sufficient to demonstrate that the method of measuring the activity is credible, in particular through its business programme. 4. Where any of the conditions necessary for the conclusion of a contract under point (c) of paragraph 1 are removed. 8 and 9 of Section I, the contract shall be terminated by the conclusion of that Law of a new contract with the same subject-matter. In this case, the concession holder shall open a new procedure for determining the concession holder within 6 months of dropping the relevant reason. Annex 5 to art. 60, para. 2, p. 4 (b). The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 5. Annex No 6 - Minimum content of the concession notice The Commission shall support the text of the Annex 6 importer and in points 1, 3 and 14, the words "e-mail address' shall be replaced by "e-mail address', and in points 1, 3 and 14, the words "e-mail address' shall be replaced by "e-mail address'. 3 words.............................................................................. 76, para. A statement of how access to the deleted part of the concession documentation can be obtained shall be replaced by a statement. 78, para. 6 The terms and conditions by which economic operators may have access to the deleted information and the terms and conditions by which economic operators may have access to the deleted information. Annex No 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 7 as such. 1 and 2 the words "e-mail address' shall be replaced by "e-mail address'. Annex No 8 to art. 75, para. 2. The Commission shall support the text of the Annex No 8 importer as in points 1, 2 and 20, the words "e-mail address' shall be replaced by "e-mail address'. Annex 9 to art. 141, para. 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 9 as such. 1 the words "e-mail address' shall be replaced by "e-mail address'.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u82	Statements? I won't. We are voting for Annexes 3 to 9 including the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 76 MPs: 70 against 2, abstention 4. The proposals have been adopted, and thus the Law on concessions. Next item: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR LEGAL AID. Report for the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u83	Thank you, Madam President. In addition, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legal Aid, No 602-01-63, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2015, adopted at the first vote on 14 December 2016. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on Legal Aid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u84	Watch what you're reading: December 14th, 2016! [[Relations from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] We're in reporting mode. Then I'll give you the floor. Continue with the report!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u85	The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 8a: Art. 8a: The National Legal Aid Office shall establish a single legal assistance reporting system by electronic means from all legal advices.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u86	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the name and the new § 1 on the Commission report. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously. Mr. Kirilov, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u87	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I request a procedure for admission in plenary regarding this Draft Law of Deputy Minister of Justice Mrs. Petya Tyankova and the Chairman of the National Legal Aid Bureau Elena Cherneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u88	We vote. Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests to the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u89	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is In the absence of the Chair, its functions shall be exercised by the Vice-President. A proposal from Daniel Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The first sentence is replaced by the first sentence of the first sentence of Article 12 (3) and in the second sentence of Article 12 (3) shall be replaced by the same term and shall be replaced by the second sentence of the words of the second sentence of the second sentence of the term The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 4. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In 21, t. 1 shall be added at the end, including Chapter Five consultation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u90	Are there statements by paragraphs 2 to 5 including the Commission's report? I won't. We're voting Anblok. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. Unanimously accepted proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u91	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 1 t. 6 is amended as follows: It's six. persons under art. 143 and 144 of the Family Code and of persons not over 21 years of age in accordance with Council Regulation (EC) No 4 2009 of 18 December 2008 on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of judgments and cooperation in matters relating to maintenance obligations (OJ L 7/1 of 10 January 2009) and the Convention on the International Recovery of Child Support and Other Family Members (OJ L 192/51 of 22 July 2011. ) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). 2. In para. 2 is finally added according to a template approved by the BCCI. 3. The creation of para. 3: In the case where persons applying for legal aid do not certify a circumstance under para. 1, BCCI shall form its assessment of the granting of legal aid, taking into account the circumstances of art. 23, para. 3 established by documents from the relevant competent authorities and according to the country-defined poverty line size. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u92	Sayings on both paragraphs, 6 and 7? I won't. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u93	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... Chapter 5 shall be created with art. 30a "30o": "Chapter 5" "The provision of legal assistance on the national telephone for legal aid and at a regional consultation centre" "Department I" "National Telephone for Legal Assistance". Art. 30a. The national telephone for legal aid is a form for providing consultation to natural persons under light conditions outside the general order for providing legal aid under art. 25, para. 2. Art. 30b. The activities of the National Telephone for Legal Aid are administered by the NCCI. Art. 30c. The terms and procedure of the activity of the National Telephone for Legal Aid shall be determined by internal rules established by a decision of the BCCI. Art. 30 years. Consultations on the National Telephone for Legal Aid shall be provided by lawyers entered in the NCCI and designated by a decision of the NCCI. Art. 30e. The consultations provided on the National Telephone for Legal Aid shall be certified by a written report of the lawyer on a template approved by the NCCI. Art. 30f. The payment of the consultations provided on the National Telephone for Legal Aid shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the ordinance under art. 37, para. 1. Section II - Regional Advisory Centre Art. 30g. The Regional Advisory Centre is a form for providing consultation to natural persons under light conditions outside the general order for providing legal assistance under art. 25, para. 2. Art. 30z. A regional advisory centre may be opened by a decision of the relevant Bar Council. Art. The 30th. The activities of the Regional Advisory Centre shall be administered by the BCCI and by the relevant Bar Council. Art. 30k. The activities of the Regional Advisory Centre, the conditions and procedures for the provision of consultations shall be determined by internal rules established by a decision of the NCCI. Art. 30L. The right of consultation at the Regional Advisory Centre shall have natural persons whose income, certified by a document from the relevant competent authority, shall not exceed the country-specific poverty line size. In the event of refusal of consultation, the person concerned may submit an application to the NCCI in accordance with art. 25, para. 2. Art. 30 meters. Consultations at the Regional Advisory Centre shall be provided by lawyers entered in the NCCI and designated by a decision of the Council of Law. Art. 30n. The consultations provided at the Regional Advisory Centre shall be certified by a written report of the lawyer on a template established by the BCCI and certified by the Bar Council. Art. 30o. The payment for the consultations provided at the Regional Advisory Centre shall be carried out under the terms and conditions of the ordinance under art. 37, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33 the 1. In para. 5 t. Two is canceled. 2. In para. 6 t. 2 is repealed. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35, para. 2 the words "the truster', the sub-contributor' shall be replaced by the person to whom the legal aid has been granted and a comma shall be placed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 11. The Commission proposes to establish § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40 words of the truster or of his sub-contributor shall be replaced by the person to whom he or she has been granted his or her legal assistance.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u94	Statements on paragraphs 8 to 12 including? I won't. We vote. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted. Procedure Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u95	Madam President, honourable Members! Since the end of today's meeting is not indicated, the procedure is: I suggest that it be at 17.00.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u96	What'll it be at 5:00?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u97	End of session.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u98	At 17.00 is the end of the 5 hour working day for each meeting, which starts at 12:00, but since there is a formal proposal, please vote on it. They voted 83 MPs: 76 against 7, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u99	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version for the name of the division: Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. The introduction of the single information system under art. 8a shall be carried out within two years of the entry into force of this law. After that period, the legal advice shall be obliged to use this system for electronic exchange of information and electronic reporting of legal assistance. The Commission proposes to establish § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... (1) The provision of art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 3 of the Judicial Law shall not apply to the jury elected until 9 August 2016. (2) The jury elected by 9 August 2016 shall complete the 5-year term for which they have been elected. (3) The jury elected until 9 August 2016, which until the entry into force of this law shall be released early on the basis of art. 69, para. 1 or art. 71, para. 1, t. 7 of the Judicial Law, are reimbursed by a decision of the relevant General Assembly. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 8 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u100	I put to the vote the name "Concluding provisions"... [[Noise and lines.]] What paragraph do you want to make a statement on? [[Heckling]] After this call, I just have to give you the floor. You want me to give it to him, don't you? That's what I heard. [[Replys on the left.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u101	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to inform you of a debate which took place in the Committee on Legal Affairs in relation to the operation of art. 12 as regards the mandates of the Director of the National Legal Aid Bureau and the Management Board. As with art. 12 We extend the term of office of the members of the Governing Body of the National Institute; we have long discussed what would be the reading of the adopted mandates. We thought that the norm of art. 12 is sufficiently explicit, i.e. it will be understood in a clear way by all the appointing bodies in the sense that the extended 4-year term also applies to the welded cases, but between the second reading and the Chamber again this dispute has resumed. Since this dispute has been resumed and since there is clearly some doubt as to the application of the Law to the existing mandates, I allow myself to make the following proposal with regard to § 13 to add a third sentence to the wording of § 13 in the following sense: 12 of the Law also applies to the existing and unfinished mandates from the time of the entry into force of the Law. I believe that this will clearly identify all the appointing bodies in the formation and determination of the precise, unambiguous mandates of the Executive Board in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u102	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. You've made your point. - What's the line? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's proposal to supplement § 13. We vote. Vote 81 MPs: for 80, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the name of the section "Transitional and final provisions', § 13 on the report together with what we have just adopted in the third sentence, and § 14 on the Commission report. We vote. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 8 by importer, as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 14. We vote. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u103	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 15. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 10 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 14. Proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Metodi Andreev. The motion has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-24.u104	I shall put to the vote § 9 by importer, which shall become § 15 by the Commission's report. We are voting, fellow Members, fully supported by an importing text. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. Unanimously accepted the offer. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 10 by importer. It is reflected in its systematic place in § 14. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The proposal was adopted unanimously and thus the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legal Aid. Tomorrow is a regular sitting. Start time "9:00 p.m. I'm shutting down the plenary day. [[PHONE RINGING]]
