ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] On 2 November 2017 the National Assembly received opinions from the Fiscal Council on the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018 and on the Draft Budget Bill of State Social Security for 2018. By letters of the President of the National Assembly, the materials were sent respectively to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Health, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and are available in the library of the National Assembly. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, in accordance with the adopted Programme, at today's plenary session, are intended to consider draft acts which will discuss agreements and annual reports which are classified under the Classified Information Protection Act, namely: Point 15 "The Law on the ratification of the Technical Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the High Chief Command of the United Armed Forces of NATO in Europe (SHAPE) on the provision of support by the Host Party for activities of allied forces in the context of the Joint Forces with a very high degree of readiness. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2017. For today this is point one. The agreement has a classification level for service use under the Classified Information Protection Act. The next item 16 of our agenda is the Draft Decision on the adoption of the Annual Activity Report of the State Intelligence Agency for 2016. (confidential), importer: Council of Ministers on 20 April 2017. Point two for today's sitting. The report is classified under the Classified Information Protection Act. And the third item provided for today is 17 of our weekly Programme (secretly), importer: Council of Ministers on 24 April 2017 Point three for today's sitting, as I said. The report is classified under the Classified Information Protection Act. In view of the following, both announced upon adoption of the Programme on Wednesday and on the basis of art. 50, para. 1, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly, the meeting in the section of the examination of these three points is closed and this is not discussed and voted. I remind the Members of the National Assembly and the other persons involved that the discussions and minutes of the closed meeting are classified information and bind to the respective obligations all Members of the National Assembly and the persons having access to them. The envisaged in art. 50, para. 6 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly publicity of the acts adopted at closed session will be ensured and the same will be published in the Official Journal. In accordance with the requirements of art. 50, para. 4 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I ask that all persons leave the hall and balconies, as well as the direct media transmission and broadcast over the Internet be suspended, after which the meeting will continue as closed. [[Next closed session.]] [[After the break and after the closed session.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u2	Dear Members of Parliament, we begin today: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Written responses were received from: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev; - Minister of Education Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question of the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Nikolay Penev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on three issues from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Stefan Burgev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Martin Tinchev; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva on a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to two questions from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Vesela Lecheva; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov. These are the written answers. New questions concerning the period from 27 October to 2 November 2017 A question was received from the MPs Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova and Stoyan Mihaylov Mirchev to Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science on providing capacity for management of the Operational Program "Science and education for smart growth" and possible loss of funds. The reply should be made in plenary on 10 November 2017. We move on to parliamentary control with questions asked and put before the present Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva. Question from the MP Ivo Angelov Hristov on the rights of the Bulgarian minority in Ukraine. Here you are, Mr. Hristov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u3	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Foreign Minister, honourable Members! I would like to say that I am extremely impressed with the crowded room and the great interest of the Members of the National Assembly. It's an unforgettable sight I'll remember for the rest of my life! Now, essentially, Mrs. Zaharieva, in Ukraine lives the largest Bulgarian community abroad. According to official statistics of the Ukrainian State it numbers around 200 thousand. Bulgarians, but there are data of nearly half a million of our compatriots in this country. Ukraine's legislation allowed nationally recognised minorities, if they represented 10% of the population of the region concerned, to learn in their mother tongues. That's why their languages have regional status. Since 5 September this year, there has been a new Education Act in Ukraine. With its acceptance the Ukrainian became the only language for training after 5th grade and the mother can be studied only in primary schools. The European countries, which have minorities in Ukraine, even smaller than the Bulgarian ones, reacted immediately against this law. Hungary, Poland, Romania and Moldova strongly objected to limiting minority rights. Only a week later did the Bulgarian state express concern in its official position regarding the reflection of the adopted law. The letter sent on 14 September 2017 by the foreign ministers of Bulgaria, Romania, Greece and Hungary to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe and to the OSCE High Commissioner for National Minorities has been delayed. Bulgarian diplomacy had to form a position in defence of the thousands of Ukrainian citizens of Bulgarian ethnic origin in the discussion of the adopted law, which was discussed for several months, and which many of the affected countries did. Dear Minister, why is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs not immediately responding to this danger? What is the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry doing in defence of the Bulgarian minority in Ukraine and in particular the right to education in the mother tongue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u4	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u5	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Dear Mr. Hristov, it is not true that the Bulgarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not followed this law! On the contrary, during the whole time the public discussion and consultations under this law took place, representatives of the Bulgarian Embassy there together with our organizations participated, discussed and followed closely. Not only have two questions been raised at all meetings that have been held over the years, one of which is the rights to study the mother tongue, and the second, possible upcoming administrative reform. And right now, these questions are on the agenda. These amendments to the relevant law, which you mentioned, have been made, that is to say, started this consultation in October 2016. The amendments have been made between the two readings of the law, this article. Seven, which you're quoting. On 5 September, unfortunately, despite the issues raised, as you correctly listed from a number of Member States of the European Union which have minorities in Ukraine, art. 7 in its present form. From the moment of acceptance, I have been in constant contact with colleagues and some of the countries that you have listed, and which you say have reacted with statements, did not actually sign and did not join the letter that we signed four ministers. Poland, for example, is one of them, but that doesn't mean, I guess, they don't work on their own channels either. In any case, the Bulgarian Foreign Minister was one of the four ministers of Hungary, Romania, Greece and Bulgaria, who wrote this letter, signed it and expected a reaction from the Ukrainian side. As a result of this letter, they made a commitment to submit the bill to the Venice Commission, to the Council of Europe for a second discussion. Of course, we are not only waiting for this, but we are taking a number of other actions, and I will mention several of them. After the law, our ambassador has held a meeting with representatives of the Bulgarian minority and their organizations there to discuss the bill. Just a few days ago, the Minister of Education returned from Ukraine, where he had meetings with his colleague there and received assurance of an increase in Bulgarian language classes and the participation of Bulgarian experts in the regulations. However, once again I would like to draw attention to the specifics of how to study Bulgarian language in Ukraine. You are right that this is one of the largest communities and I can only admire those people there who have preserved the Bulgarian language and Bulgarian culture in the years around 45, have not had the right to study Bulgarian language in any school, and they have preserved this language anyway. The same happens in Moldova, by the way. Currently there are 42 Ukrainian state schools. These are not Bulgarian schools, as is the case with Hungary and as is the case with Romania. There is a Bulgarian language being studied as a foreign language. In the system during the years of transition [[the President signals that time has run out]] and this is uniquely developed in a system of 57 Sunday schools, which are supported by the Bulgarian state through funding.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u6	Mrs. Zaharieva, let's take time!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u7	It's a very important matter, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u8	It's important, there'll be a line, and you'll probably have a chance, as we've gone over a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u9	Just let me finish. We continue to monitor the matter. We believe that this Law also gives an opportunity, which so far is not available, because Bulgarian language is studied two hours a week in their public schools, which you understand yourself that it is extremely insufficient to have good knowledge of Bulgarian language if they decide to apply for, for example, to Bulgarian university. Therefore they study Bulgarian language in Sunday schools, but we insist on including a common subject as another subject, such as this Law, according to Bulgarian history, Bulgarian identity, Bulgarian culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u10	Thank you. I'm sorry, but we have to follow procedure. Mr. Christov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I am extremely dissatisfied with the answer to your question. In fact, I am extremely dissatisfied with the reaction it has in the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry, the Bulgarian government and the Bulgarian official authorities. I give you, for example, Hungary's reaction to this issue. It is absolutely not true that the Bulgarian language enjoys some special status in Ukraine at present. Under the Law, which was adopted on 5 September, the Bulgarian language, as well as other languages of regional minorities, is treated as a foreign language, not as a mother tongue. In this sense, he entered into the common regime for learning foreign languages, such as English, French, German or any other language. I suppose you are deeply convinced that studying Bulgarian in Sunday school is ridiculous. Secondly, which is very important, other Member States of the European Union, such as Romania, such as Hungary, such as Poland, which you mentioned and which had not signed the letter in question, but Poland arranged the status of its Polish schools in the four Western Ukrainian regions and they enjoyed the relevant status which had it long before this Law was adopted. When the Bulgarian government on the move could do this job and threaten to block in some way initiatives between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union on the other, the Bulgarian government did nothing about it. For your information, Hungary is blocking the meeting Ukraine. NATO precisely on the occasion of the status of the Hungarian minority learning the mother tongue. I am extremely dissatisfied with your position and I am extremely dissatisfied with the position of the Bulgarian government, which only in words protects Bulgarian minorities abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u12	Mrs. Minister, you have the opportunity for a dot. Within two minutes you can complete your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u13	Mr. Hristov, you have the right to be dissatisfied, only it is not good to deceive the Bulgarian society. Mr. Hristov, for your information and before the Law, I do not know what the previous governments have done to protect these minorities, Bulgarian language is studied one or two hours a week, extremely insufficient, I stress, again as a foreign language. We are also in talks at the moment, I say for a reason that the Bulgarian Minister of Education was there and arrangements have been reached to settle the status. Of course we're putting the question and putting it sharp enough. Of course, one of the conditions not only for Ukraine, we have here and other of our neighbouring countries for a European perspective, is protection of minority rights, and this we continue to resist and we will stand firm in the future. You have the right to be dissatisfied, but it is not good when efforts are finally being made to protect real real actions for the protection of Bulgarian minorities abroad, to speculate, given that for years before that, not to speak during these 45 years, which I mentioned, which the Bulgarian language was banned from studying during the Soviet Union, in fact these actions and this protection are developing now in practice. I don't know what else to do. You signed it with the letter, we are following very closely what is happening and we will insist on learning mother tongue, and not only in mother tongue, because it is not enough to study two hours a week, but Bulgarian literature, Bulgarian history, should be a commitment of Ukrainian authorities. If they want to be part of the democratic family, they must also respect democratic values, one of which is the protection of minorities and the right to their self-determination and identity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u14	Thank you, Madam Secretary. [[National Representative Valeri Zablyanov requests the floor for a declaration on behalf of a group.]] Mr. Zablyanov, please come in for a statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u15	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Official information was released a few days ago that Bulgarian Parliament Speaker Dimitar Glauchev asked Serbian President Aleksandar Vučić to change the name of the Serbian city of Dimitrovgrad on Tsaribrod. On behalf of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, I would like to express a few objections. The first, and it seems to me, which affects to the greatest extent the bilateral relations between Bulgaria and Serbia, is the question: in what quality and in how the President of the parliament of a neighbouring country declares a wish to the President of another neighbouring country that it will change the name of its own city.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u16	This is a Bulgarian city.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u17	I would like to draw attention to the honourable MPs that Balkan history is controversial and that any of the neighbouring countries in the Balkans can make such claims to its neighbour. If anyone is imagining, I regret that the President of the Bulgarian Parliament has been misled in this direction that, if a revision of the names of the Balkan cities and settlements of the neighbouring countries, according to their historical names, this process can hardly be stopped, and I do not think that it is admissible from the perspective of all the rules of international law. I'd like to draw attention to a few more circumstances. It is not known on what basis this request is made. The official argument that has been shared is that this is the desire of the Bulgarian minority of the Western suburbs. As is known, the desire of one or another in the case of the Bulgarian minority is expressed in official forms. Two referendums were held in Dimitrovgrad in 1993 and in 2004, where the citizens of Dimitrovgrad voted to preserve the name of the city. Another argument. In Bulgaria, there is a town that bears the same name. There is no reason for the President of the Bulgarian Parliament to put this issue before the Serbian President. Bulgarian citizens in the Republic of Serbia are rightly asking their questions to the Serbian state for the protection of their rights, cultural, educational and civil. They are rightly supported by the Bulgarian state authorities and institutions. It seems to me that there is a long-standing process in which the Bulgarian minority gradually received a serious volume of rights within the Serbian state. [[Replying and applause from OP: "Bravo! "]] I regret that the Bulgarian Parliament and its President are similarly involved in an action whose ultimate goal can only be the deterioration of bilateral relations. Thank you for your attention. [[Replications, applause and cheers by "BSP for Bulgaria": "Bravo!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u18	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, we are continuing with parliamentary control. There is a question from the National Representative Ivo Hristov concerning the policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for relations with the Russian Federation. Here you are, Mr. Hristov, to develop your question. In this procedure you have the opportunity to do so in three minutes, then there is a five-minute response from Minister Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u19	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! Dear Minister, the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016 is an occasion for my inquiry. For the part of the national representation he was rejected by the Committee on Culture and Media and, as I recall, by several other committees. The executive's assessment of the risks, dangers and threats coming from the Russian Federation raises the theme of the future of our bilateral relations. Dear Minister, my question is: what is the policy with regard to the Russian Federation of the Republic of Bulgaria and how is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs planning to act in the context of the claims of the report, which was adopted by the National Assembly in the meantime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u20	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Madam Secretary, come in. [[National Representative Milen Mihov wants the floor for a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of OP.]] Let's get this over with, or... You agree. Okay, thank you for this opportunity not to interrupt the dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u21	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, the 2016 Annual Report is prepared by a working group, according to art. 7, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System. Once again, unfortunately, there is speculation that the report was directed against Russia or the Russian state. Let us be very specific, let us be objective and read the report in full. The annual report shows that among the main challenges and risks to national security are: refugee and migration pressures; the risk of negative transformations in the European Union; instability in Southeast Europe. The most significant risk is the infiltration on a European scale of extremist cells and the threat of international terrorism. With regard to regional security, the report takes into account a number of real actions leading to a deterioration of the external security environment. Again objective facts: the crisis in Ukraine; the illegal annexation of Crimea; instability in other parts of the Mediterranean area; the conduct of large-scale military exercises and so on in the periphery of the Alliance. Such action leads to an increase in the challenges of regional and international security. The Republic of Bulgaria firmly supports the policy aimed at avoiding the return to the atmosphere of the Cold War in relations between the West and Russia and we firmly stand behind the approach adopted in the meeting of NATO Heads of State and Representative in Wales from 2014, providing for dialogue with the Russian Federation. We have a lot of topics, dialogue, and this thing happens all the time. I am talking now about foreign policy not only between Bulgaria and Russia, between the level of the European Union and Russia. Our country is part of a community that shares... I'll give you a few examples. A unanimous declaration was recently adopted in the UN Security Council regarding the situation in North Korea, for example. The common actions and the common efforts of the entire Community are related to the fight against terrorism, one of the other actions that we are working with wonderfully and interacting with. Our country is part of a community that shares the values of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. Therefore, actions which involve violations of international law and legal and political commitment cannot be ignored in this report. Just to say that dialogue with the Russian side is at a very high level. This year alone, three or four ministers have been there twice. At the moment, for the first time in many years in 2016, with quite some interruption, a session of the Joint Committee on Trade and Economic and Scientific Cooperation was held in Sofia. We expect the next session to take place in Moscow. Also in my day is the preparation of bilateral political consultations between the Foreign Affairs Ministers of the two countries. They will happen November this year, so on a regular basis Bulgarian diplomats work constructively with their Russian colleagues on the main issues of bilateral relations as well as on current issues on the international agenda. In conclusion, the objective conclusion of the report reflects Bulgaria's consistent security and foreign policy policy and, at the same time, rather, this report, reflecting objective relations, is a way to clear up the misunderstandings and challenges that we have there. The report is addressed in 16 committees, and if I am not mistaken, it is indeed not adopted in the Committee on Culture and Media and in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, but in the Committee on Foreign Policy, on my information, because we are not an importer and an initiator of the drafting of this report, the report is adopted without votes...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u22	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Christov, come in. You have the opportunity to specify the question within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u23	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! I am extremely impressed by the high competence of the Bulgarian foreign minister. From what I understand, the treatment of North Korea is part of the relationship with the Russian Federation, which, of course, enriches my geographical knowledge. I'm grateful to Friday's control, which gives me the opportunity to get a second degree here. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Now get to the point. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I'm not asking you. Mr. Chairman, would you please bring order to the court?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u24	Immediately, Mr. Christov. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u25	Learn to listen to things that don't export to you. It's part of democracy, if you don't know. Now get to the point. If what you said was the way you said it, there wouldn't be a corresponding demarche on the Russian side, which was just recently. I suppose you're familiar with him. Secondly, I don't know when the Bulgarian government is sincere when it claims that it raises to a very high level, I don't know how high the 2.40 probably, relations with the Russian Federation, or when it actually torpedoes any opportunities for any really fruitful relations with Russia? Bulgaria's relations with Russia are predestined, if you will, by geography, not just by history. Governments come and go, relations between Bulgaria and Russia remain. Here, in this Chamber, more than 50 years ago, one of our other predecessors with violent applause, as the National Assembly's stenographic protocols said, welcomed the declaration of war between the United States and England, and then had the king to say: "Gruev, you could at least not applaud. For this reason, I would like to know, Madam Minister, what exactly are yours expressed in, I would say, positive relations with the Russian Federation? Since there was a personal moment in your reply, at the meeting in question I simply was not present, otherwise rest assured of my vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u26	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Madam Minister, you have the opportunity to respond within three minutes. Will you take advantage of that? No. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's a question, of course. There are rules, I invited the minister, he won't take advantage. Mr. Hristov, you can take an attitude within an additional two minutes to complete the questioning procedure. If you wish to take advantage, you have two more minutes. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u27	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! I wonder if I should finish some things?! Relations with Russia, as well as relations with the People's Republic of China for Bulgaria are not only a matter at the theoretical level. Relations with the Russian Federation go through the fact that a significant part of the active Bulgarian energy still depends technologically on relations with the Russian Federation. I don't know when the Bulgarian government is fair when it says it will develop the energy projects with the Russian Federation and in the sea I want sailboats to swim, not foreign warships, or when we really do everything we need to do to go to a confrontation with this country? Shortly before this item on the agenda, we discussed issues related to the allocation of warrior contingents and the commitments made by the Bulgarian side at a closed meeting. The road to hell is paved with good intentions, even when they are packed in phrases about Euro-Atlantic values. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u28	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Mihov. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! We need to make a declaration that we will start with our firm support on behalf of the United Patriarchs and the actions of the President of the Bulgarian Parliament Mr. Glauchev in the protection of the Bulgarian national interests in Serbia. We support these actions, as we support the actions of every executive and of all Bulgarian factors for the protection of national interests, of the rights of the Bulgarians, wherever they live, a policy that has led to serious success in recent months. They were almost unthinkable in the period after World War II to this day. I recall that the government of the United Patriarchs and GERB achieved a breakthrough in relations with the Republic of Macedonia. I remind you that the government of the United Patriarchs and GERB won the recognition of a Bulgarian national minority in Albania. And this, counted from May 4th to today, within not more than six months. We amaze that the parliamentary group of BSP made an official declaration in the National Assembly in support of the idea of preserving the name of the old Bulgarian town of Tsaribrod in the Western suburbs. This reminds us of a statement by the former Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, broadcast by the Socialist Party, which called these Western outskirts Eastern Serbia. This very prime minister declared that problems for the Bulgarian minority, recognised by virtue of the Nyeu Treaty in a kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, are not in modern Serbia. We heard the same suggestion today. We don't accept that kind of suggestion. We do not accept such findings. We believe that they are practically working against the interests of the Bulgarians in the Western suburbs, increasing their feeling that they are abandoned by Mother Bulgaria, which leads to severe problems. We stress that this time, if followed consecutively by the party of contemporary Bulgarian Socialists, perhaps it will repeat the fate of this same prime minister exactly 20 years ago. Colleagues on the left often use the phrase that smart peoples learn from history and their mistakes. A historical maxim says that nations do not actually learn from their mistakes. I find it difficult to say if this is it, but with this BSP statement, we are convinced that BSP is not learning from its own mistakes. Thank you. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. We continue with the third question to the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs Mrs Ekaterina Zaharieva. The question is from the MP Ivo Hristov about the recognition of the Bulgarian minority in the Republic of Albania. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u31	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! My question is about the recognition of the Bulgarian minority in the Republic of Albania. My question is from October 10th of this year, which shows that the parliamentary procedures for questions and responses to them should be dosed as deadlines. Dear Minister, Albanian Parliament is scheduled to vote on 18 October on a Draft Law on the Protection of Minorities in Albania. With it, Tirana officially recognises the presence of Macedonian, Greek, Vlask, Montenegrin, Serbian, Bosniak and Egyptian minorities, but not Bulgarian. For hundreds of years in the areas of Golo Burdo, Mala Prespa and Gora live historical Bulgarians. According to unofficial data, between 60 thousand and 170 thousand different censuses are Albanian citizens of Bulgarian ethnic origin. The explanation of Albania's foreign minister Mr. Ditmir Bushati is that during the last census the Bulgarians did not declare themselves as such formal because the number of Bulgarians was simply not there. Dear Minister, my question is: what has Bulgarian diplomacy done so far in your face to protect the rights of Albanian citizens of Bulgarian ethnic origin, and what urgent action are you planning to take to recognise a Bulgarian ethnic minority in Albania? I'm sorry, I want to say again: my question is from October 10th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u32	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Here you are, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u33	Dear Mr. Hristov, your question is indeed old and I would very much like to inform you, as you already know, that on October 13th, the parliament of the Republic of Albania adopted a Law on the Protection of National Minorities, which included as one of the recognized national minorities and Bulgarian minorities. The draft was supported by the votes of 102 MPs, 10 voted against, one abstention. This success was achieved thanks to the really great efforts of all Bulgarian institutions over the years, but especially intensively over the past few months. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I have made an explicit reference to which politicians and ministers have raised this issue over the years. The presidents raised him, starting with Peter Stoyanov, but the foreign ministers, except me, didn't find him. It's a fact. Starting with Petar Stoyanov, Mr. Parvanov, Mr. Plevneliev raised questions every time in this regard. These are the three presidents from which the raising of this issue began, at least in the archives we found in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because there were lines from the Albanian side that this issue was not raised, but was really raised, starting with the Bulgarian presidents. You know that Prime Minister Borisov too [[Voices: "Eee!" by "BSP for Bulgaria"]] He also had a conversation with...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u34	Colleagues, I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u35	Yes, I will list everyone because, as you rightly pointed out, the Bulgarian minority was not present in the project that was submitted. Others were present, but they weren't. The inclusion of this topic begins and actually for the first time acquires much more publicity thanks to the activity of Bulgarian MEPs Andrei Kovachev and Angel Dzhambazki. At their initiative, the European Parliament adopts such a resolution, which explicitly mentions the Bulgarian minority and calls on the Albanian country to recognise this minority and to take care of the protection of their rights. When I was in the Republic of Albania, I raised this issue both to the President and to my foreign minister colleague. Prime Minister Borisov held a telephone call because, nevertheless, the bill was submitted and was not withdrawn, with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Albania. I would also like to thank the Bulgarian Parliament, the Foreign Policy Committee has also made quite an effort by sending letters and having talks with its colleagues from the Albanian Parliament. It was a serious effort. And this really cannot happen without the Bulgarian scientists, because it is a historical justice that is recovering after so many years. On the basis of their studies, the support of the Bulgarian MEPs, starting over the years, is actually stepping on. I cannot fail to note the active work of the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad, as well as the Department of the Ministry of Religion. However, it is true that the greatest efforts, without the unification of people of Bulgarian origin in Albania, of the organizations that exist there, and the collection of over 3,000 signatures in a month and a half, their entry into the institutions of the European Parliament and the Albanian Parliament, may not have been successful, so above all we owe gratitude and gratitude to the Bulgarian minority in the Republic of Albania, that over the years they have succeeded in a month, although they have not been so well organised before, to organise, to collect 3000 signatures and to defend their rights to the Albanian Parliament. That's short for chronology. Of course, in just three minutes, that's all I can say. There is much more to be said about this success that we have been able to achieve and the restoration of historical justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u36	Mr. Christov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u37	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! I'm pleased with your answer, but you've forgotten the most important people who actually did the worst work on the field. These are several Bulgarian anthropologists, ethnologists, who, without any support from the Bulgarian state, performed huge field work in the area of Golo Bardo and Gora, in order to get acquainted with the Bulgarian public that Bulgarians exist in this western part of the Bulgarian land. Of course, success is indisputable. I suppose that perfectly others were the factors that played a role to recognise the Albanian Parliament, at the last moment to make a concession for the Bulgarian national interest there. Of course, it must be said very clearly, and another........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But what they say as long as we're alive, we'll learn something. I keep saying, of course, it's a conjunctural success. And since you had begun to list the great contributions of the different presidents, who are undoubtedly such, it must also be mentioned the team of Dr. Zhelev, who first raised this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. For the coat, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u39	It's not good to miss out on some of my words. It was no accident that I said, "In the archive we found." Unfortunately, President Zhelev didn't even have enough records in the presidential administration. So we are also grateful to President Zhelev's team if you have any information about this. Of course I wouldn't have missed it. I also mentioned the Bulgarian scientists, Mr. Hristov. The truth is that without their efforts, but once again I stress, without the people themselves there who have preserved this, despite the pressure that there has been to forget their Bulgarian self-consciousness and to define themselves as Macedonians, this was a fact, they have managed to preserve this self-consciousness, to preserve the Bulgarian language and to unite again, to tighten up and manage to import these 3000 signatures. Because during the public discussion of the Bill they did not participate in committees during this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u40	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Let's thank Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to the second minister Mr. Valentin Radev, Minister of the Interior. He will answer a question from the MPs Ivan Ivanov and Dora Yankova about the policy of the Ministry of Interior for fire safety and protection of the population. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u41	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! In recent weeks, the issue of the readiness of your government to respond to crises affecting the protection of the population and fire safety is back on the agenda. The disaster in Burgas, the forest fires during the summer season in Kresna and the recent crises in Miziya, Asparuhovo, Hitrino and others give us reason to ask you what is the vision of the future of this sector in the overall activities of the Ministry of Interior. Unfortunately, this issue is posed not only by us, but also by those who are directly implementing these activities, namely the staff of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Population Protection. These circumstances put you in the position to owe answers whether your actions as Minister endanger the health and life of both the citizens and the employees of the Ministry? In this regard, we ask you: how much will be the increase of the budget of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population (CEO) for 2018 compared to the previous year? How will it be distributed, will overtime be permitted by fire-fighting and rescue workers within 70 hours in one reporting period? Do you foresee a maximum limitation of posted staff from busy district services? Will the teamwork of the structures be restored by amending and supplementing the texts of the Regulation on fire-fighting and rescue activities? We hope that you will give us a positive answer, because what has been happening in recent months and the lack of political leadership of the Ministry of Interior to have a dialogue with the social partners and to find a solution to our problems leads to the finding of serious problems and the lack of political will problems to be solved. The topics of conversation are not limited to that alone, there are others that are part of the overall problem. We are looking for an answer to the question about the incomes of the employees of the Ministry of Interior because there is a lasting trend in the freezing of wages, which leads to demitivation. The norm in the Ordinance on the order of fire-fighting and rescue activities, which guarantees the security of the employees, and another reform that has entered into force since February of this year, has, according to our data, led to the imbalance in the pay of the employees of junior executive positions as firefighters and rescue workers who are handling road accidents. According to our data, a doorman in a general directorate and an operating car driver gets more than a fireman and a police officer. From various sources, we also learn that the modern technique that has been purchased with European funds is not properly exploited because of the incompetence of the footage, and maintenance is incredibly expensive. We would like you to tell us if this is the case. Just to remind you that in 2012 a criterion was adopted for categorizing the fire departments in Bulgaria, which lays down four degrees of district services - first, second, third and section services. Each category must maintain a certain number of cars. This methodology appears only on paper to determine the number of cars, and nowhere in another regulatory document does it mention how many teams must serve these cars. This leads to a contradiction and creates prerequisites for violating the safety requirements of work. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Some progress has been made in 2015, which concerns the safety of firefighters to be at least three employees.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u42	Guide yourself to the question, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u43	Minister, I hope you will convince us with your answers that the lives and health of the citizens and employees of the Ministry are not at stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. For an answer the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Valentin Radev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, dear Mrs. Yankova too! I also took the question with me because you asked me so many questions now in your exposé, and your question will actually read it to answer it, and then we have time to ask and I will answer specific questions. Your question is actually: what is the policy of the Ministry of Interior and the resulting measures for fire safety and protection of the population in the country? That's the question I'm answering now. One of the main directions of the Ministry of Interior is providing fire safety and fire protection, disasters and emergencies. The National Specialized Structure, such as the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Population Protection, carries out the following activities: preventive, first and foremost, state fire control, fire-fighting and rescue activities, emergency and reconstruction works, early warning and disclosure, methodological and expert assistance of territorial authorities and executives regarding disaster protection and emergency situations. Operating activity supposes the authorities of fire safety and protection of the population carrying out a 24-hour operational duty in more than 200 settlements. To ensure the fire safety and protection of the population separately in the resort complexes during the summer tourist season each year on the basis of contracts signed between the Ministry and specific municipalities are seconded employees of the Directorate General for Fire Safety and this organization ensures optimal protection of the population and guests of the most visited resorts. It's the same in winter. The average annual number of accidents the teams responded to was 50,428. Of these, the fires are 33 681, 8745 with material losses and 24 936 without material losses. During this period, an average of 16 747 rescue activities were carried out. The preparation of staff from the Directorate General is constantly increasing and in 2016 only 1376 employees have passed training in the different institutions or this is about one third of the general staff in the Directorate. The composition of the Directorate also participates in meetings, seminars, courses and trainings under international cooperation, under NATO and the European Union at the same time. New buildings have been built to enhance the capabilities of the structural units in the last few years for the needs, such as the Ninth District Service in Sofia, the same service in Pernik, the same service in Kazanlak. Fire trucks were delivered, there was such a thing in your inquiry, specialized cars, specialized equipment, equipment and personal protective equipment for over 300 million. lv. On the average employed state Bulgaria occupies eighth place among European countries, with an insurance ratio of 1.02 firefighters per 1,000 people, which is above the average European indicator, which is 0.68, 1.02, against 0.68 is one third more. There are voluntary units created in 212 of 265 municipalities, with nearly 3,000 volunteers, i.e. around 80% coverage from municipalities, but the insurance ratio is 0.405 volunteers per thousand people. Bulgaria is 20th place according to this indicator. The average European standards are 4.45. We've got a lot of work to do and a lot of volunteering to do. 91 demands for equipment from mayors of municipalities, 50 fire trucks are given, 11 rescue cars, 32 transport cars and so on. In this direction to increase and assist volunteering is actively working. Preventive activity and control: information explanatory companies are held each year among the population for fire safety. The authorities of the Directorate participate in the preparation and implementation of training of different target groups of children, students, students and so on. Separate training tools, methodologies, interactive training systems supporting the learning process are developed. Currently, 511 youth fire formations are operating, including over 6500 children and young people. From the brief presentation of the time I have here, I suppose it is clear that the Republic of Bulgaria has a sustainable and targeted policy for ensuring fire protection in disasters and emergencies, as a top priority is the protection of the life, health and property of the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u46	Thank you, dear Minister. For two supplementary questions please come in, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u47	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, the statistics that you presented to us about the activities of the fire department and the safety of the population speak precisely of our concern and desire to strengthen it, to be stable, to have it in the territory of the whole country and to have it all the countries that are in this process. Because in the last few months, after talking about reform, there's some kind of sound. The first question as a sound: where and which fire stations will be closed and which sections? I still don't know why he's hiding. And since you said that 212 municipalities have them, that means we're going to go to 200. The second question: will there be an opportunity for natural disasters, in the winter that is expected, you will also guarantee the early disclosure, which is also in the activity, you will guarantee it and take political responsibility? In this sense, I would like to share that if the budget and regulation are a problem, we will support you for a stronger budget. Personally, I think that these imbalances in the country's regional development at the closure of the fire brigades will not sound good. Our desire is from the 20th place in the European Union that we go up. I hope yours is too. Please answer both questions: what are the fire services and sections that will be closed, and what resources is needed to prevent them from being closed?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u48	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Minister, please come in for an answer to the two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, Mr. Ivanov, these are already specific questions. Where and which fire services are going to be shut down are 12, some of them you know, one area, of course, is Pamporovo, the other is Borovets, and others, I remember Bratsigovo and several others. We don't hide the information at all. Ask for information, and if you had asked me, I would have listed it. I don't by memory know who these 12 are, but I know another reason why this was done. And I want to assure you that this is done the right way. There is a map of the situation where what happened to the fires, floods, earthquakes, including all the other cataclysms that have happened, for which the Directorate is responsible. According to this map is made so that where they are at least they are restructuring these services are not even closed, for example Pamporovo or Borovets. This is the answer to what resources will be needed. The resources are the same. We don't change anything, we don't add, we don't subtract. We're just rerouting them where we think there's a greater need. This is done, believe me, by professionals. We've been debating this subject with the unions and I think it's a good solution. So far, we have not received any substantial objection, including the people who work there, will not lose their jobs. They'll be moved somewhere. I can talk about this for a long time, but you didn't ask me about it in the main question, so I'm not going to continue, I'm not going to have enough time for the rest. Regional imbalances will not be there, as you mentioned, to take it to the first question, for this reason there is a map, it is checked. I remember that for Borovets or Pamporovo, not to confuse them, there are only three fires this year. Only three fires in the hotel area! Well, why should we keep her there, why shouldn't she be in town, where she'll be on nice roads and so on? Early disclosure. Yes, thank you for that question. I'm looking at him, too. Somewhere I mentioned it on my desk there's a report on what money it takes for early disclosure. It turns out that the systems that they disclose, first, are old, then there are no batteries that at a certain time change and ask for a lot of money. My question was: why hasn't anyone been doing externally over the years, and now we have to take out some money and change almost the whole disclosure system. We have good examples, and they are made with other money - European to say, in a sense, not from the budget. This is the example of Burgas, and as far as I know, this system has now worked quite well. Good example, let the others do it, I'm talking about the other municipalities. And speaking of municipalities, I must say that the responsibility is not only for the Directorate. I'll take care of it. I'm doing what I need to do, I've already mentioned this report, and we're going to spend money there, but the municipalities know there's such money. Let them take care of public disclosure. This is not only the care of the Department of Fire Safety and the Protection of the Population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u50	Thank you, dear Minister. For the treatment of Mrs. Yankova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u51	Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! Mr. Minister of Interior, we continue to believe that this reform and the regulation you are defending is thoughtless as a policy on fire safety and protection of the population in disasters and accidents, emergencies, even early disclosure. Why before? I do not accept that you blame Borisov's second and first government. You're in his third edition. In fact, there are now three governments before you that could. Let's not look. If you're looking eight years ago, maybe that's when you created Phone 112, but it's small stuff. Again, I say to you: to such a degree are distorted regional imbalances, the absence of a state and statehood, that the presence of your employees, of your offices, especially in areas such as the Rhodopes, means state and statehood. These are serious things we're talking about. You're not just run by the accounts they gave you. I know there will be a cover, but in what I read in the media, there will be a journey from 20 to 60 km. That's where you're gonna take out your men. With regard to Pamporovo and Borovets, yesterday the mayors of Smolyan and Chepelare signed that they will not be able to be partners with financial resources. But if you take and see, you talk to your colleague the Minister of Tourism, every foreign partner, travel operator asks: does the Ministry of Interior, does the Fire Department have medical services? The three elements to be guaranteed. And I call you again. I heard Commissioner Nikolov on the Bulgarian National Television, who on the 16th said: "And this season there will be professional firefighters in the two resorts. I couldn't understand, you're acting harder, if he gave the back, but he's under you. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I would like to share this with you: there is a need for us not to retreat from the areas where there are fire services and institutions working for the security of citizens. We will support you for an increase in financial resources. The Minister of Finance is also here. It's a little money, but don't back down from these policies with regulations and a sketch. No one is protected 200 liters per square meter of nature to pour into a certain place. This can't be analyzed by any employees. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Mr. Minister, we believe that this policy as a reform is now unthinkable.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u52	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Thank you for the participation of Minister Radev in today's parliamentary control. We continue with questions to Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov. First question from the National Representative Nikola Dinkov about the problems created by heavy goods vehicles in Svilengrad, sq. "Captain Petko Voyvoda" when entering and exiting for goods in the Customs Bureau of Svilengrad. Here you go, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u53	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, in town. Svilengrad, sq. "Captain Petko Voivoda" has a customs terminal at the Customs Office of Svilengrad. There is a charge for goods that are transported by heavy goods vehicles. These heavy goods vehicles create extremely big difficulties in the neighborhood, destroy streets, destroy sidewalks, cause extreme discomfort to those living in the neighborhood because there is great pollution, noise and prerequisites for traffic accidents. In addition, facilities built under a European project are being destroyed because a new water supply network was built in this neighborhood two years ago. The people in the neighborhood are extremely concerned, as this has been going on for a year and a half for two years. The proposal is that these goods should be carried out outside the neighborhood, in the Free Zone of Svilengrad, which is at the National Company "Industrial Zones." There is an infrastructure set up on this issue, so the additional can also be carried out safely there. In addition, the street, which has been designated "Dr. Peter Beron, " as the only entrance and exit, has already been completely destroyed. Target financing must be undertaken for the construction of this street with gauges and regulations for heavy goods trucks and it must be used only for those heavy goods vehicles on which a thorough inspection must be carried out at the customs terminal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u54	To the point, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u55	In this regard, it is also my question: what will the Ministry of Finance take, respectively the Customs Agency, to solve this painful issue for the residents of Svilengrad in the district. Captain Petko Voivoda?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinkov. For an answer, Mr. Goranov, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear guests from Varna and Dobrich!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u58	Let's welcome the guests. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u59	The project is a new customs and bus terminal. Svilengrad, which houses the Customs Office of Svilengrad, was put into service at the end of December 2014 and started operating in November 2015 after equipment, installed equipment and relocation of employees. The terminal is equipped with all necessary facilities for carrying out efficient and quality customs controls, loading ramps, channels, electronic scales, lifting and refrigeration chambers. The site is built on a land provided by Svilengrad Municipality after consultation with it, and for the purpose of the closed Mitnitsa svilengrad, another property is provided to the municipality, located in the ideal center of Svilengrad. The exchange of properties was made precisely for the purpose of the terminal being built in place at the end of the square. "Captain Petko Voyvoda " in order not to disturb the peace of the city's inhabitants, while its location is consistent with the close distance to Republican road I-8 and the immediate proximity to the customs station. "Svilengrad railway station. The only street allowed to cross trucks from and to the Customs Office of Svilengrad is Svilengrad Street. Dr. Petar Beron is about 400 m long, whose pavement is really badly damaged at the moment. On the same street there are no residential buildings and the passage of trucks should not disturb the peace of residents in the neighborhood. Control regarding compliance with a ban on the passage of heavy goods vehicles through the other internal streets into a square. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Dr. Petar Beron is not within the competence of the Ministry of Finance, respectively the Customs Agency. Another question is whether and how far the state can and will decide to help the municipality in order to fix its internal street network something that is its commitment. The proposal for the transfer of customs clearance of goods in the Free Zone of Svilengrad, in our view, at this stage is inappropriate, as significant investments are needed to rebuild buildings and facilities to carry out customs control, as well as to pay rent by the Customs Agency and access fees by carriers such as under the newly built site New Customs terminal of Svilengrad are not necessary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u60	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you go, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u61	Dear Minister, I understand from your answer that a decision will probably not be found in this direction. I just want to tell you that there are the necessary communications in the Free Zone, as there are also parking spaces, and there are also open and closed areas, plus Customs, Svilengrad, until 4 years ago, has performed such activities there. I therefore said that the Customs terminal that was built was decided by the Svilengrad municipality, it should only be used for a thorough inspection of the trucks that defined the management of the Customs Bureau, but this street should be built and defined as the only entrance and exit. At the moment, police authorities are doing regular checks, but they can't place a post there that will stay 24 hours to control the trucks. That is why we are looking for another solution in this regard is also the question of the solution and the question of the calmness of the citizens, which must stand before us and before you in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinkov. For the back, Mr. Secretary? I won't. Let's get to the second question. He is from the MP Vasil Antonov on financial support from the state budget for Pleven Municipality in relation to the preparation of the celebrations related to the 140th anniversary of the liberation of Pleven. Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister of Finance, Mrs. Minister of Tourism! 2017 is a sign for Pleven, but also for Bulgaria. It is 140 years since the liberation of Pleven from Ottoman yoke, 110 years since the creation of the first memorial structure in the post-liberation Bulgaria. The military-historical museums in Pleven, and 40 years since the construction with the voluntary work and funds of the people of the magnificent Panorama Pleven Epice 1877. For any people who want to move forward with dignity and self-esteem, it is important to know and honor their past. There is no Bulgarian who has not visited the Pleven panorama and the Holy Pleven land and has not bowed before the feat and places covered with the bones of the thousands of Bulgarian men, Russians, Romanians, Ukrainians, Serbs, Belarusians, Poles, Finnishs, Moldovans, Victims, Baltics all gave their lives for the freedom of Bulgaria. We, as Bulgarians, have the duty and responsibility to protect their memory. Today, on the eve of the celebrations and the celebration of the 140th anniversary of the liberation of Pleven, many of these saints need repair, funds of about 1 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. The budget of Pleven municipality is allocated the maximum possible funds within 140 thousand. BGN, which is extremely insufficient for this function. My question to you, dear Mr. Goranov, as Minister of Finance, but also as a Bulgarian, as a weenie, is: what funds can be set aside from the state budget for the anniversary that we will celebrate on December 10th? Thank you and I expect your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u65	Dear Mr. Antonov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You know that budget relations with municipalities are voted out and are written clearly and specifically in the annual State Budget Act for the relevant year on individual elements, a subsidy for the activities delegated by the State, transfers for local activities, a common matching subsidy, a transfer for winter maintenance and snowing of municipal roads, a target subsidy for capital expenditure. The issue you are putting is up-to-date, and we will seek the opportunity to provide additional resources, but it cannot go for current costs related to carrying out such an event. Such funds can only be allocated through investment in municipal infrastructure and I do not know which of the sites you are talking about, but we are probably talking about the need for investment in several memorial complexes that exist in the city, related to the 140th anniversary of Pleven's liberation. We express our readiness, together with Pleven Municipality, to discuss the most pressing problems related to infrastructure maintenance, built and maintained in connection with the events of 1877.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u66	Thank you, dear Minister. Come in for a cue, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u67	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Ministers! I am partly satisfied with your reply, Mr. Goranov, in so far as you make commitments with the municipality to make the necessary investments in infrastructure and other necessary sites. The minimum necessity is the one I quoted as a number of a million and a half. The sites are also mentioned in the letters, which the mayor's leadership sends twice to the office, later to the Prime Minister of your cabinet. You have a corresponding answer, not yours, but the Deputy Minister, in which he uses the same arguments in a way......................that he uses the same arguments............................. the same arguments................................ that he uses the same arguments........................................................................................................................................................ This, of course, happens at a meeting of the Council of Ministers on 8 September, when in the same arguments there are funds and paragraphs when funds are allocated to the military monuments in Bulgaria. I believe that the celebration of the 140th anniversary of Pleven, which in military textbooks, there are serious military here, is given as one of the bloodiest battles in the wars that took place, and for good reason because there are dozens of dead who left their bones there. 140 years since the liberation of Pleven is the first step in celebrating the 140th anniversary of the Liberation of Bulgaria from Turkish yoke. Your attitude as a Bulgarian minister, as a person from Pleven, of our Council of Ministers of Bulgaria is very important because it is a sign to the entire celebration of the 140th anniversary. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There are other very serious arguments, but we expect you to be at the height of the celebrations that follow next year and those that are on December 10th this year. We are expecting you personally with all the weeds on December 10th to be together in the square of celebrations.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u68	Thank you, Mr. Andonov. Mr. Minister for the doppelganger. You won't have the back. We should thank the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to answers from Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova. The issue is from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov on the construction of the Single Tourism Information System (ESTI). Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u69	Thank you, Madam President! Honourable Members, Dear Minister! In his third annual speech, European Council President Jean-Claude Juncker placed the security of the European Union as the main priorities and dealing with migrant flows. The other thing about Bulgaria is that from January 2018 the country will host the Presidency of the European Council. In this regard, my question to you is: at what stage is the construction of the Single Information System?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u70	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u71	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prodanov, honored guests from Varna and Dobrich! In its third annual speech of 13 September 2017, which you mention, the President of the European Commission, in addition to setting out the security priorities, also called for closer cooperation among the Member States of the European Union. In order for Bulgaria to successfully build on this cooperation with the other members of the European Union, it is necessary to continue to develop the degree of synchronization between the institutions in the country itself. This is also one of the main missions of the Single Tourism Information System (ESTI), together with putting competitiveness in the sector on a real basis and ensuring the security of the destination. With the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Tourism, promulgated in the State Gazette, No. 75 of 27 September 2016 is a fact the changes that regulate the functioning of ESTI, which allows in real time data to be exchanged on protected channels between the Ministry of Tourism, the NRA, the Ministry of Interior, municipalities and hotel receptions. In this sense, measures have been taken to address the grey economy in the sector by introducing an effective control system. As regards the actual chronology, I inform you that, in connection with the Decision of the Minister of Tourism of 16 December 2016 on the opening of a procedure for the award of a contract with subject matter A complaint was lodged at the KPC on 16 January 2017 and deposited with the Ministry of Tourism and therefore the public procurement was suspended on 19 January 2017. Until May 2017, there shall be no movement on the complaint lodged and no other action taken by the Office. In view of the above and in the meantime, the establishment of the State Agency for Electronic Governance, as an authority with the functions of issuing, imposing control of policies, rules and good practices in the field of electronic management, which requires that the relevant documentation be passed before the contract was announced, on 23 May, at the beginning of my term of office, I terminated the contract by decision of 23 May 2017. After waiting for the legal deadlines for appeal, we launched a conciliation procedure with the State Agency for Electronic Governance on 28 June 2017, and to date the Decision went through the Agency on 26 October and certified that the Ministry of Tourism could, with the technical order of the procedure, proceed to the public procurement. By the end of next week the procedure will be announced and the planned deadline for selection of performer is the beginning of 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u72	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelkova. Here you are, Mr. Prodanov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, you are, after all, Minister of Tourism for the last three years with a little interruption. We have an established regulation by the Council of Ministers at the beginning of 2015, which regulates the construction of the ECTI system. Unfortunately, during the Presidency Bulgaria, apart from the focus of many politicians, journalists, tourists, will be the focus of the attention of many people who have unclean intentions. So this delay may not be fatal, but it is necessary to build this system as quickly as possible. I know that in your case, the issue of political, personal responsibility for actions, for inactions or for wrong actions does not stand. Failure to build the ESTI system is a problem not only for security, but also a problem for the fight against the grey economy. You know the data that are exported by representatives from the hotel sector that the loss and gray economy in the unregistered nights is in the order of 250 lv. So my call to you is to personally take over the management of this project and as soon as possible to be built. I also ask you to tell me, however, you said that the procedure would start at the beginning of 2018, how long will it take to build this system? About two years ago, you say it takes about a million. 200,000. lv. Is that money in the budget and in which of the feathers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u74	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. Here you are, for the coat, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Prodanov, in the exhibition I mentioned that the changes to the Tourism Act of 26 September actually allowed the launch of the construction of the system ESTI, for which I, as a minister, as well as the entire cabinet We certainly didn't take long to stop this system in any way. We comply with the requirements laid down in the Law. I explained to you that the month of December was announced a procedure, on 28 December there was a complaint, respectively, under the Law, the procedure stopped. Next week, after all the movements of the procedure that I explained in the exhibition, we announce the public procurement again and expect at the beginning of 2018, I open a large clamp, if there is no appeal, to have a selected contractor. After which, according to the technical assignment, the development of the system will take between 9 and 12 months, of course, we will set the short term, having a test period so as to see how the software itself works. We have a financial resource of 1 million. 200,000. lv. and it is in the pen related to the policy of sustainable tourism development. I hope, if there is no appeal, at the end of the summer season, for the beginning of the winter to be able to test the system and it will begin to function. I am talking about 2018, not 2019, if there is no appeal with this clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u76	Thank you, dear Minister. We should thank Minister Angelkova for participating in today's parliamentary control. Next are the questions to the Minister of Culture Mr. Boyl Banov. The question is from the MP Ivo Hristov about the home of the writer Dimitar Talev in Prilep. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u77	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question is about the condition of the home of the writer Dimitar Talev in town. Bat, Republic of Macedonia. Dear Minister, on Street. The home house of the great Bulgarian writer, classic and Buddhist Dimitar Talev is located in the town of Prilep. It is clear from information in the public domain that the current owners have an explicit desire to sell it to the Bulgarian state so that it is not destroyed. To this end, they have repeatedly been involved with Bulgarian diplomatic and cultural representatives in Skopje. They also sent letters to institutions in Bulgaria, including the Ministry of Culture. So far, they've got no answer from anywhere. According to the local Historical Museum, the home of Talevi is the oldest house in the town of Prilep. 210 C.E. I remind you that from the yard of this house the stories of Talevi heroes start: Sultana, Nia, Lazar, Rayko Vardarski, Katerina, Avram Nemtur, Boris, Rouza and so on. These are not just literary names, but a code to the Bulgarian Bible, written with the participation of a powerful talent with strong folk instinct. Dear Minister, next year we will celebrate 120 years since the birth of Dimitar Talev. This is a sufficient reason to consider a patriotic initiative with which his home to become a house-museum, cultural center and an outbreak of the Bulgarian spirit in the center of Prilep. My question to you is: why has the Ministry of Culture not responded until the time of the proposal of the owners of the property; what are the obstacles to such initiatives; what is the reason for ignoring the possibility of Bulgaria having its own cultural and historical monument in the center of the town of Prilep, at this home of one of the most talented and prominent Bulgarian writers of the 20th century? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. For an answer. "Boil Banov, Minister of Culture. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u79	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, dear Mr. Hristov! The home of the great Bulgarian writer Dimitar Talev, the town of Prilep, the Republic of Macedonia is privately owned by several heirs. At present the Ministry of Culture has not received a proposal from the owners of the property for the purchase of the house by the Bulgarian state. The National Scientific and Documentary Archive of the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage contains no evidence that Dimitar Talev's home house is a real cultural value. It should be borne in mind that the acquisition of properties outside the country by the Bulgarian State, their granting for management and their disposal is carried out on the basis of a decision of the Council of Ministers. In the event of an initiative by the owners, the Ministry of Culture, within its competence, is ready to take action to preserve the home of the great Bulgarian writer Dimitar Talev, together with the competent institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u80	Thank you, dear Minister. The line, Mr. Hristov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u81	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. Take this as a signal to activate the Bulgarian Ministry of Culture and to enter into the necessary contact with the current owners of the house, who are not heirs of Dimitar Talev, I would like to point out. I believe that in the context of the treaty that was signed with Macedonia, where it is explicitly written that the Bulgarian cultural and historical heritage there will be guarded, this will be the first practical step in this direction, all the more so that in the Republic of Macedonia there is currently an unprecedented process of seizure of the Bulgarian cultural and historical heritage, including the work of such a great Bulgarian titan and writer as Dimitar Talev. I don't know if you know this, but the Iron Lamp was issued to the so-called Macedonian, as a result of which all Bulgarian was removed from it. The Bulgarian state should not allow in any way one of the biggest Bulgarian authors of the 20th century, or even of a modern Bulgarian author, his heritage to be reversed. This will clearly show the cultural perimeters and the red lines from which the Bulgarian state and we, as Bulgarians, as a society, will never give in, regardless of any vows of good neighbourly relations. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Mr. Minister, for the coat? You won't. Let us thank the Minister of Culture Mr. Boel Banov for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to a question to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Biser Petkov. The issue is from the National Representative Anton Kutev about the amount of pensions of children with permanent disabilities who are over 18 years of age. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u83	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, I will begin my speech with expressions of gratitude for something that came out yesterday in the media, which you announced. The efforts, I suggest not only to your Ministry, to make a separate and different assessment of the performance of the disabled people, and to further develop the system of TelK, which is obviously not working properly so far. Obviously, you've made the same, I suppose, and the current Minister of Health, efforts to make that happen. I hope it's a good result. We still have only intentions, but I hope and support the efforts to find the right solution there. It's about children with permanent disabilities. We all know what the problem is there. Still, maybe I should clear it up. Good efforts have been made over the past few years to get some fairly normal means of survival themselves. As a result, for several years now, depending on the degree of disability, between 50 and 70% respectively, they receive 350 BGN, then 450, and for those over 90% are already 930 BGN. a month, which, generally, is some kind of amount that doesn't solve all of life's problems, but it's an opportunity. From now on, you understand that I ask the question with the idea of what happens to these children, for example, with 90% damage, which have received BGN 930, and at some point it turns out that one of the most unfortunate events in their lives is that they are 18 years old. By turning 18, they go into a completely different order and a completely different pension, which in this case should be at least 145, or you will say how many, with the corresponding integration supplements. There's no chance that a child who was born or who acquired the damage at that age would actually remove these injuries. These are usually injuries that are life-long, that is to say, up to 18 years of income, and from 18 years onwards it turns out that things actually...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u84	Mr. Kutev, the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u85	My question is: what are the pensions for children with disabilities after 18 years, and what are the changes that you possibly foresee in pensions for these children?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u86	Thank you. Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy for an answer. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Kutev, Ministers! The Social Security Code provides for the possibility of granting a social disability pension to persons over 16 years of age with a permanently reduced capacity, type and degree of disability more than 71 per cent. Depending on the degree of work lost, these pensions are calculated in percentage of the social pension for old age, which from 1 July this year is 120, 98 BGN. The amount of social disability pension in the case of permanent disability, type and degree of disability from 71 to 90 percent is 110 percent of the social disability pension, i.e. from 1 July 2017 is 133,08 BGN. In case of permanent disability, type and degree of damage over 90 per cent is 120 per cent of the social pension for old age and from 1 July 2017 is 145.18 BGN. In accordance with art. 103 of the Social Security Code, pensioners with permanently reduced working capacity, type and degree of disability over 90 per cent who are constantly in need of foreign assistance, receive an addition to the pension of 75% of the social pension for old age. The size of this supplement is BGN 90,74. from July 1st of this year. Persons with 50 and over 50 per cent permanently reduced workability who have worked or worked shall be entitled to a personal disability pension due to a general illness, occupational accident pension or occupational sickness. The amounts of these invalidity pensions shall be determined according to the insurance service and the insurance income of the persons as they are employment pensions. The minimum amount of disability pension due to a general illness shall not be less than 115 per cent of the minimum amount of retirement pensions and age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). One of the CSRs. This is for persons with permanently reduced performance above 90 per cent, 105 per cent respectively for persons with permanently reduced performance, type and degree of disability from 71 to 90 per cent and 85 per cent for persons with permanently reduced performance, type and degree of disability from 50 to 70.99 per cent. Thus the minimum amounts of disability pensions due to a total disease from 1 October this year are respectively: 230 BGN, 210 BGN. And 170 BGN. The minimum amounts of disability pensions were increased by 24 per cent compared to those in force from 30 June this year as a result of a double increase in the minimum amounts of employment pensions in the second half of 2017. The State Social Security Budget Act for 2018 provides that when recalculating these pensions from 1 July 2018, their increase will not be less than 3.8 per cent. In addition, children can receive a survivor's pension from a deceased parent. The amount of the survivor's pension from a deceased insured person shall be determined in percentage of the survivor's pension, depending on the number of heirs. However, regardless of the number of heirs, the minimum amount of the survivor's pension may not be less than 75 per cent of the amount of the retirement pensions and age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1, that is, from 1 October this minimum size is 150 BGN. Our legislation also provides for the possibility of granting personal pensions to children without the right to a survivor's pension from a deceased parent. These pensions are granted by an act of the Council of Ministers and are at the expense of the state budget. In conclusion, both personal pensions and inherited pensions are obtained from children until the age of 18 and while studying, including higher education, no later than 26 years of age. If they have been disabled before then, however, there is no limit in the age to which these two types of pensions can receive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u88	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Kutev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u89	Dear Minister, in fact, I note here that my question was deliberately directed at children who do not have any internship. Yes, it is true that when they have, for example, five years of minimum internship, after which it is calculated as a pension on an employment relationship, is already different and is a little higher in pension. My question is quite deliberately asked for this group of children. People because they are already over 18 years old, who do not actually have any internship so far and are practically with pensions, as you said, if they are over 90% disability, they have 145 BGN if they are between 71 and 90% disability, respectively are 133 BGN. That's the income they practically have. God forbid they have to receive appropriate inheritance pensions from their parents. It's obviously impossible to live with that money. I am aware that the country lacks funds and that the hardest battle is the battle with the finance minister. I know that this is not a matter of your desire, and that if we could all do whatever we wanted, we would give these people enough to live a comfortable life if we could. The fact is, he can't. I purposely place the issue on this particular occasion, because this is about a not very large contingent of people, in which, if there is, how can I say it, more overloaded by destiny beings than those children who have permanent incompetence since childhood, who from then on enter into life with BGN 145. and with some integration supplements, eventually, i.e. get 90. 100 BGN. on top at best, although the guaranteed minimum income, which you are now talking about will eventually increase, it will raise them by 5 10 BGN. integration supplements, no more. It's still something, I don't underestimate it. The point is, however, that they obviously cannot live with this money, that is, something that can be called social genocide. This is not an attitude towards you, and I do not claim that you are imposing it. However, I say that society in this case must take action. We, together with you, must fight this particular battle of this group of people. It's good that it's realized and that their income was raised before they were 18 years old, but from then on, it's becoming genocide. We have to do everything we can to make the incomes go up for at least these, because this is the most vulnerable group that these people have. It is a matter of the cause to change to a lasting battle with the finance minister, whether it will be carried out now or within the next budget. I ask you to develop the documents for this budget is already too late, but for the next so that the finance minister has enough clarity in time that this needs to be done. This is a matter of general pressure, especially for this group of people, which we must not give up on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. For the back, Mr. Secretary? You won't use it. We should thank the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Biser Petkov for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to questions to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov. First question by Nikolay Tsonkov on the development and adoption of regional plans for the development of forest areas. Here you go, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues! Since 2011, the Forest Act has introduced the development of district plans for the development of forest areas. This concerns absolutely all forest areas, regardless of ownership. In this sense, the plans must be synchronised with the regional development plans laid down in the Regional Development Act. This also directly concerns the management and control of state-owned enterprises which are also directly responsible for forest areas. In this sense, the information so far is that eight forest development plans are being developed, but we have no results so far. We do not have prepared plans, and they should be ready long ago. Therefore, my question to you is: what is the problem with the development of these plans, what is the policy of the Ministry and when can we expect them to be ready? After all, we have, you know, 28 areas, and we're nowhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Mr. Rumen Porozhanov, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u93	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, your data is even more optimistic, mine are for less development of regional plans. A little information, of course. The policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry with regard to the development of district plans for the development of forest areas is aimed at strictly implementing the provisions of the Forests Act in this part. The necessary efforts are made to prepare and implement the process of integrated planning of forest areas at administrative level. What has been done so far? First, preparation for the realization of regional plans for the development of forest areas. In 2016, a project was implemented with financing of the European Economic Area, within which a preliminary analysis was carried out concerning the location and connection of the district plans for the development of forest areas with planning documents developed under the Law on Construction of the Area, the Law on Protected Areas, the Law on Biological Diversity, the Law on Forests or, in other words, the place of the district plans for the development of forest areas in the common planning system of the country. A detailed structure and content of the district development plans for the forest areas has also been developed. I can give it to you further, which is currently used in the development of the specific district plans. In the form of pilot development, a regional plan for the development of forest areas has been drawn up for two municipalities in Montana region, Berkovitsa and Varshets, while the overall project for development, public consultation and adoption of the plan has been completed for experimental purposes. Secondly, the implementation of the regional plans for the development of forest areas. At the beginning of 2017, the Forest Executive Agency developed and adopted at the Expert Council for the development of three regional forest development plans for Montana, Smolyan and Dobrich respectively. Subsequently, three public contracts were prepared and awarded by the Forest Executive Agency through the regional forest directorates of the town of Berkovitsa, the town of Smolyan and the city of Varna to award the three district forest development plans. The implementation of public procurement began in September. In the process of developing the regional plans for the development of forest areas are currently held meetings with the stakeholders............................................................................................... 163 of the Forests Act, regional environmental and water inspections, swimming directorates for water management, NGOs and others. It should be borne in mind that to date, the country has no practice in the development of planning documents for forests of such a strategic nature and of such an administrative level. For this reason, the Forest Executive Agency is taking due account of the three plans allocated, as they are still perceived as piloting both in terms of philosophy and their specific content and in terms of the financial resources needed to develop them. In 2018 and 2019, depending on the budgetary opportunities, the development of regional development plans for the other 25 districts is also forthcoming. Even more simply: the two regulations relating to these regional plans, I can quote them to you, one adopted 2015, the other at the end of 2016. That is why the very implementation of this legal provision has been delayed for several years. On the other hand, it has to be borne in mind that the development of these plans is not a coincidence that this pilot project has passed to identify the content and what it should contain is not, as I said, a popular but also costing a certain financial resource. Let's see how the first three public contracts go now, but I guess not less than 100,000. lv. it will be the development of one of the plans. Let's see how they go. So the development itself in the coming years will require a financial resource, whether we can accumulate it in the number of plans that are being developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u94	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Tsonkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u95	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. It makes it clear that there is obviously a serious problem. We have a great delay, firstly, with regard to legislation concerning regulations, and now I understand that financial resources are also somewhat limited in the end, too, because it has to be ensured. I agree that this is something new for the country, but, on the other hand, I think that they should be developed as soon as possible because they really concern governance, the development of forest areas. I believe that they will also help to improve the financial mechanism of management of these territories. This should also have a better effect on the state from the point of view of funds entering the budget. So I'm counting on you and I'm going to follow the process. I'll periodically ask how far development has come. I think we have an understanding of the importance of this problem on both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. A hole, Mr. Secretary? You won't. Let's get to the second question. He is once again from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov on financial and economic indicators of the South Eastern State Enterprise. Here you go, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In your written reply, Minister, you pointed out that the Southeast State enterprise has the best financial and economic results from all businesses in the country. At the same time, in oral answer to the question that I have asked you, it has become clear that there are obviously serious problems there, although the checks carried out so far do not show these abuses. I also know that there are numerous complaints and signals of non-governmental organisations, interested parties regarding the very nature of the management of these state-owned enterprises and also of the Southeast State-owned enterprise, because the following revenue is obtained, let us say, of this enterprise is slightly over 67 million, while the costs are almost the same value. For 2016 we have one profit of only 273 thousand per such a huge enterprise! That sounds really weird. It's too small, too. Please provide information about the condition of the Company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u99	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, the South East State Enterprise, the city of Sliven, is in good financial and stable condition, which is evident from the reported positive financial result of the enterprise for the half-year of 2017, which amounts to 1 million. 469 thousand. lv. As of the end of the third quarter, the State-owned company reported a second positive financial result of less than 2 million. BGN, as it is larger than the previous year. I don't really like this kind of stuff, because their main goal is not profit. You know that very well. They're not meant to make a profit, they're designed to maintain a yes, in this case we don't have the district plans, but we do have 10-year lesco planning plans, based on which their overall annual programme is made both for logging and for afforestation and many other things. As regards the financial results and annual financial statements of the State Enterprise for the period 2014 to 2016, as is your question. In 2016, a profit of 174 thousand was reported. lv. In 2015, the positive financial result was 916 thousand. lv. In 2014, we had a negative financial result of 493 thousand. BGN, mainly the negative result is related to two reasons. The first reason is accounting and it is impairment of the claims resulting from the declared bankruptcy CTB. The second main result was carried out very unplanned significant costs in connection with the increased migratory pressure on the border with the Republic of Turkey, which was related to the construction of routes to the border, as well as the provision of firewood for the Border Police. As I pointed out, the main function of state-owned enterprises is the management of the forest areas and the implementation of the planned events in the forestry and hunting plans. The financing of all these events shall be carried out with own funds from the business of the undertaking. You mentioned a number of signals, a number of violations not only in this enterprise, but also in others. It is normal in the management of huge territories to have affected, including economic interests, regardless of whether they belong to non-profit associations, whether they belong to natural or legal persons. There is always a dissatisfied decision in one process or another. We continue with the inspection and the audit based on the findings that you made last time. I'd like to tell you that the numbers don't correspond much to what you said. Including that yacht you mentioned. I think you know there's no boat. There's a boat, I can give you the parameters of this boat, but I'll show it to you later in the picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u100	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Tsonkov, come in for a cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, I agree that the profit is not leading, but in the end these enterprises manage a state resource... the national wealth of Bulgaria. From this point of view, I do not agree very much with this point of view, because I do know of many experts from the guild who believe that the mechanism under which these enterprises are managed must be really changed, including those mentioned. The question of control is also about public control, in fact how is this accumulated resource spent? At the moment, that control is somehow lost. To help you check, I'll give you a few more disturbing things. In Kotlenski Balkan, it turned out to be heavily deforested the whole area. No afforestation measures have been taken, you know, as it should be done. There is also a problem with the firewood of the population, which are purchased for another September month, paid for and not yet delivered to them. Now the question is this resource that is accumulated, what is it used for? Why didn't they get wood? With this obviously, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a problem with the management of the company. Pay attention. I don't know, some of the costs make a serious impression on civil contracts and the like. Are the movements of some public figures there also part of the problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u103	Thank you. You're getting information, not all your information is accurate? be sure of this thing. The firewood is not a coincidence for me to be consulted because there were problems here and there, but mostly in Northern Bulgaria. In Northern Bulgaria, where there is an interest in the export of wood to Romania in terms of the fact that in Romania they managed to accumulate it much faster and currently there is a shortage of wood. At the moment, there is only a slight delay in another enterprise, so my deputy is currently there to see which municipalities where there is some problem. But right in the South East, we don't have a similar power problem with the firewood. Neither I nor you are part of this forest guild, which is like a flock. They know each other very well, as they say, and they love each other very much. That's why I wouldn't want to go into their movie, and I would recommend to you. After all, this is your decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u104	Thank you, dear Minister. We should thank Minister Rumen Porozhanov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are going with questions to the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Neno Dimov. The issue is from the National Representative Stefan Burgeev on the protected area of "BG0000181" - part of the European ecological network of "Inertia 2000" - unregulated extraction of inert materials in a property with cadastral No 045001 in the land of the village of Riben, municipality of Dolna Metropolia. Here you go, Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the land property with cadastral No 045001 in the land of the village of Riben, municipality of Dolna Mitropolia falls within the boundaries of the protected area BG0000181, the river Vit. According to local residents, more than five years in this land estate is carried out unregulated organized extraction of aggregates, and for them what is happening is vandalism and ecological barbarism. There are thousands of cubic metres of inert materials, much of which, according to the same population, are deposited for the construction of the water cycle in the cities of Lower Metropolis and Trastenik, which is currently underway. The municipality of Lower Metropolitan has repeatedly carried out checks, but so far they remain with findings only without taking the appropriate measures. So far, there have been no reactions from the competent authorities of the Ministry of Environment and Water. Dear Minister, my question to you is: what measures will you take after we bring the matter to the Ministry of Environment and Water, to stop these and to prevent subsequent uncontrolled actions? Will responsibility be sought by the principal "The Municipality of Dolna Metropolitan," for violating environmental legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Burgeev. For an answer, the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Neno Dimov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Dear Mr. Burgeev, in response to your question, I would like to inform you of the following: the land No 045001 of the municipal land fund of Dolna Metropolitan Municipality is public municipal property. It falls within the Natura 2000 site - BG0000181, Vit River, designated for the conservation of priority habitats and wild flora and fauna under art. 6, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 of the Biodiversity Act. For the protected area, no order has been issued. On 19 October 2017, experts of the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection City of Pleven carried out a thorough on-the-spot inspection and on documents. The on-the-spot inspection has found that the terrain of the property is occupied with excavations of different depths, filled with water and overgrown with water-loving vegetation. In addition, the Commission notes that the UK authorities have not provided any evidence of the existence of State aid in the form of State aid. At the time of the inspection, no yields shall be carried out. The Ministry of Environment and Water, respectively the Regional Inspectorate of Environment and Waters in Pleven, did not receive any signals of illegal extraction of inert materials on property No 045001. For this property in the land of the village of Riben there were no investment proposals for the extraction of underground riches, respectively there were no procedures under the order of Chapter 6 of the Law on Environmental Protection and the Law on Biological Diversity. Under the requirements of the Law on Underground Treasures, the overall control of the carrying out of search, exploration and extraction of underground riches, including without authorisation or concession, is carried out by the Minister of Energy or the Mayor of the municipality concerned. The criminal administrative measures in the event of unauthorised extraction shall be taken by the Minister of Energy or by an official authorised by him. In this regard, by letters dated 19 October 2017, the consolidated protocols of the verification of RIEW Pleven were sent to the Mayor of Dolna Metropolitan Municipality, to the Minister of Energy and to the District Prosecutor's Office, Pleven, to take further actions in jurisdiction. In fact, I have thus answered what the Ministry of Environment has already undertaken to handle this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u108	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Burgeev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u109	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! I see that there is an active reaction following the question I have asked, and I hope that the appropriate actions have been taken in the portfolio of your ministry. Such cases of outrage and plundering of land goods and resources in no way correspond to European environmental legislation, put black spots on the Bulgarian image in view of our future Presidency of the Council of Europe. I also hope that after the ongoing checks until the actual violations are established, you will refer, as you have done, and continue to monitor in the process how things are going, because the citizens of Lower Metropolis, including me as a Member of Parliament from the region, we hope that such outrage will be prevented and the offenders will be punished to show that there is order and rule of law in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Burgeev. For the back, Mr. Secretary? I won't. The next question is with a common answer. The questions are from the MPs Daniel Yordanov and Krasimir Yankov about the investment intention to extract natural gas in the area of General Toshevo Municipality, the locality of Spassovo. The second issue with the same theme is from the MPs Plamen Manushev, Yordan Yordanov and Daniela Dimitrova on the gas extraction survey in General Toshevo municipality and the investment intention for gas extraction. Here you go, Mr. Yankov. Before that, let's welcome our guests students from the Second elementary school - Gotse Delchev, gr. Gotse Delchev, and their teachers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Secretary! My question to you is about the investment intention to extract natural gas in the municipality of General Toshevo, the locality of Spassovo. In 2014 the company Rusgeocom BG is conducting a survey for natural gas extraction on the territory of the Municipality of General Toshevo, the locality of Spassovo, which covers the territory of 18 villages in the region. More than 2000 signatures have been collected against the intention to extract the investor's gas from the municipality. So far, several protests have been held by both the local population and residents of neighbouring municipalities and districts. On this issue, the mayor of General Toshevo also took a proposal to the local Municipal Council for holding a referendum. The municipal council has unanimously decided and a referendum will be held on the territory of General Toshevo Municipality on 17 December. A few years ago, a similar investment interest was claimed in the region, but for shale gas production, which was stopped following numerous protests by the people of the municipality and the region through a moratorium imposed by a deliberate decision of the National Assembly. What is the position of the Ministry of Environment and Water with regard to the extraction of natural gas from an environmental point of view? Is there an environmental impact assessment based on the investment intention of Rusgeocom BG and what is the chosen method for the extraction of natural gas? We pay attention to you, Minister, that the concerns, the excitement of the people are extremely great and from your response they will either calm down, but most importantly they will be able to form an informed attitude to this investment intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u112	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mrs. Dimitrova, to develop your question as well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u113	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues, Mr Minister! Our question is identical to the one of my colleague Iankov and is dictated by the tensions that arose among the residents of General Toshevo municipality and the whole district of Dobrich about the investment proposal of Rusgeocom BGSAD for the development and utilisation of the field of Spassovo in the block of Dobrich, including four sections: Rogozina, Chernookovo, Kalina and Rogozina East for the exploration and extraction of natural gas in the territory of Dobrich district. As you know, since October 16th, a series of public discussions have been held among the local community on the EIA Report prepared by RIEW. Varna, which recommends approving the implementation of the investment proposal. According to the report, the research works carried out in the block are localized promising resources. A commercial discovery certificate is to be issued and a concession for natural gas extraction is to be obtained from the field of Spassovo. The investment proposal outlines the framework of activities for a 35-year period for developing and operating the gas field. However, the concerns of the population are that the prepared survey in General Toshevo municipality threatens nature and livelihood in the region. Although no fracking is planned, at the intended depth of the drilling machines will penetrate below the level of the underground lake from which it draws drinking water all over Northeastern Bulgaria. It is also claimed that there is a possibility, after assessing at each working stage, to change the extraction model, which could allow the replacement of the conventional method with the non-motorised fracking or coal gasification, all of which are carried out at a depth of 2700 m. The grain producers from Dobrich district came up with a protest declaration. They are concerned that gas production and generally passing through Dobrudzha's water layer poses a risk to people's lives and health. They claim that radiochemical substances that are used pose huge risks to the livelihood, life and health of people. According to farmers, there is no clarity as to where waste water will come out of exploration and drilling, as there are no treatment plants to absorb all capacity. There are protests that are still going on, and rallies, including the 7th, will be next...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u114	On it, Mrs. Dimitrova!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u115	...and on the international road to Romania between Kardam and the border. In this regard, our question is: how can the lives, health and livelihood of Dobrudjans be guaranteed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u116	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dimitrova. Mr. Secretary, come in. You have six minutes to develop your answer as you answer two questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u117	Mrs. Dimitrova, Mr. Manushev, Mr. Jordan Yordanov, Mr. Danail Yordanov and Mr. Yankov, this is actually the interest in this very, obviously serious issue. Firstly, I would like to thank you, because this makes it possible to clarify once again exactly what is going on and it is good, as you yourself have said, to have an informed decision from a point of view, including citizens who can potentially be most affected. In relation to the topic of natural gas extraction and the preparation of an environmental impact assessment, I inform you that the issue concerns, as you yourself said, an investment proposal for the development and use of the locality of Spassovo, in part of the block of Dobrich, including four sections of the section of the building............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. As a result of a procedure to assess the need to carry out an environmental impact assessment on 26 November 2014, the Director of RIEW (Varna) issued Decision No VA150-PR 2014 with the character of carrying out an environmental impact assessment. The investment proposal envisions a 35-year period of development and operation of the gas field. The field will be developed in four mining districts of Rogozina, Rogozina-east,................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The site is a classic gas field in which shale rocks are not developed, which is why the use of horizontal drilling technology is not necessary. According to the environmental impact assessment prepared, conventional means will be used for the production of the extraction, which will not affect the quantity and quality of groundwater in the water horizon, as well as the integrity of the drilling. It is not intended to use hydro-rift technology, hydraulic shock, hydraulic cracking, hydrofracking and fracking, which are characteristic of shale gas extraction. That's not foreseen! Reinforcement of the drill stem is carried out by lowering siege tubes with a strength characteristic and cementing them along the entire length. When passing any water-bearing horizon for its use in the drilling trunk, a siege column shall be lowered to which mandatory cementation is applied. For the treatment of drilling fluids from drilling water and drilling waste, the construction of an earth-saturated sediment and a storage depot for the rock part of the shaft shall be envisaged at each site. After sedimentation and separation of the solid and liquid phase, the water will be transported to a treatment plant and the sedimentator will be flooded and finally liquidated. The EIA report does not show any evidence of the use of radiochemical substances. The EIA procedure is currently at the stage of a summary of the results of the nine public consultation meetings held on the EIA Report with the attached assessment report on compatibility of the protected areas of the Natura 2000 network. In relation to the great public interest expressed in the investment proposal, for clarification of all the circumstances relevant to the decision on EIA, RIEW.Varna will require additional information from the Ministry of Energy, RZI "Dobrich," VK "Dobrich" AD, as well as from independent experts with competence in hydrogeology, it is about scientists from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and others, about the chosen method of exploration and extraction, the completeness of the assessment carried out and the extent of the expected impact on groundwater, arable land and the health of the population as a result of the investment proposal. Depending on this additional information, the Regional Inspection will adopt further actions under the environmental impact assessment procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u118	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line? Mr. Iankov, will you be again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, you sound justified, but people are excited. There is tension among the public, among the inhabitants of these 18 villages in the municipality of General Toshevo, who are perhaps more informed than anyone, because it is something that concerns them personally.. the land of their parents, ancestors. The main concern is that this land is arable, agricultural land. If you cannot convince and calm this tension, are you ready in connection with all the opinions you are about to take to stand behind the people? Because if they are not convinced of all the facts that you provide for the safe extraction of gas, it is normal for the state, because the executive authority, and we must meet the public expectations, what people want us to stop this investment intention, since even more is yet to be pronounced on 17 December, and if they say that they do not want gas to be produced on the territory of this need, then this decision is binding in a referendum on the respective territory of General Toshevo municipality. But is there a case of the gas production method described by you elsewhere in the country or somewhere in Europe to be an example for people who are excited? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Mr. Minister, two minutes for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u121	Maybe backwards, Mr. Yankoff. Yes, Bulgaria is mined, probably also in Europe, I am not familiar with all the places where it is produced, but it is produced in this way gas and at the moment it is quite, quite conventional. When we talk about people's fears, very clearly once again, as you did when asking your question, and I in my reply to make clear: when it comes to shale gas, you, the MPs, although in another Parliament, have put a moratorium and this moratorium has not been lifted, and no one in Bulgaria can even think at this stage of extracting shale gas. This is about conventional, but precisely because of this high level of concern at the moment that there is, the Regional Inspection will require additional information. It is now important that we set aside the corresponding responsibilities. Although the final act. "Assessment of environmental impact" he stepped on a different expertise. When we talk about people's health, this is about RZI, because they are competent, we don't have that competence. We will address both them and the Ministry of Energy, including the scientific community, to make sure that what is said in the EIA report is what is actually happening. Within our competence, it is to collect these opinions and take them, it is said to be an environmental impact assessment. Will there be any follow-up? Firstly, let us complete this procedure, because the procedures you certainly know, but for those who listen to us, there are four possible outcomes: to say that they approve of the investment intention; to return the work report, which means that some changes must be made; to return the work report, which means that there must be substantial changes; or to refuse. These are the four possibilities. At this point, I can't tell where it will go, it's an independent body, with sole responsibility, but the procedure is ongoing, and when this procedure is over, let's see how it ends, because there are all four possibilities open. The aim at the moment is to obtain the best expertise to take the expert decision. And the ban itself, by banning shale gas, we see that this is a political ban and another type of responsibility and solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u122	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Manushev? You're not gonna ask... Yeah. The answer was comprehensive. Thank you for the participation of the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Neno Dimov in today's parliamentary control. We begin with the questions to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The first question is from the MP Nikolay Tishev on illegal construction in Novo Panicharevo village, Primorsko municipality, and the inaction of municipal and state administration. Here you go, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u123	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Nankov, honourable colleagues! A few weeks ago, on my reception day in Burgas, I met with residents of Novo Panicharevo, Primorsko municipality. The meeting raised the issue of an illegal building on municipal property in the center of the village. In the last seven-eight years, countless complaints and signals have been sent to the municipality of Primorsko "RDNCK" Burgas, DNCK, district manager in Burgas, without any action taken by the municipal or state administration. Although the municipality of Primorsko has issued a constitutional act in accordance with art. 225, para. 1 of ZUT, namely to remove, and the DNCC is pronounced that the removal of this illegal construction is entirely from the competence of the mayor of Primorsko municipality, in practice a transfer of the ball between municipal and state administration is received. To my question I have also applied a small part of the answers and correspondence, in this case only four pieces, between municipal and state administration in relation to complaints and signals submitted by the residents of Novo Panicharevo. In relation to the above-mentioned case describing the failure to comply with the LU, please answer the following questions: what measures are you planning to take as Minister of Regional Development for the implementation of the Law and the elimination of the illegal building and what administrative penalty will you impose through your DNCD of the responsible employees of Primorsko Municipality for the non-application of art. 223 of the Law on the Construction of Territories? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u124	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. For a response the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov. Three minutes, Mr. Nankov, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u125	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Tishev! The transfer of the ball sounds quite interesting, spoken from your mouth, but you last week, from last Friday, have picked me up with colleagues from your parliamentary group. Last week was the People's Representative Manol Genov. Cutting trees outside the waitresses, going in and cutting, doing something that, bravely put, is illegal. Don't make me do anything illegal! I'll give you a timeline of what our powers are and what we do about them. Following an alert in 2009 On the occasion of the illegal construction of municipal property, located in the center of Novo Panicharevo village, Primorsko municipality, Burgas district, employees of Primorsko municipality have carried out an on-site inspection, we are talking about the distant 2009 year in which a constructive act No 33 of 5 November 2009 was drawn up, according to the current art. 225, para. 1 of the Law on the Construction of the Area, which is based on the initiated administrative proceedings for the removal of an illegal building, a one-storey building, a hexagonal shape with dimensions..., located in the district of. "3 A" according to the plan of Novo Panicharevo village, Primorsko municipality. The paper was sent to the RDNC "Burgas" for a ruling on competence. The fact is that three years there has been no pronunciation of the RDNC Burgas. Fact! As of 26 November 2012, you know, the amendment of the Law on the Construction of the Area is in force, on the basis of which take into account the fact that according to the provisions of art. 223 of the ZUT ZID, the complete control of the constructions of the fourth, fifth, sixth category, such as the above-mentioned illegal construction, is entrusted to the mayor of the municipality or an official authorised by him. The claim was returned to the mayor of Primorsko Municipality in jurisdiction to take subsequent legal action on the case. On the basis of the constitutional act drawn up by officials of the municipal administration and according to the provision of art. 225a, para. 1 and in relation to art. 225, para. 2, p. Art. 2 and Art. 2 233, para. 1, t. 8 by the mayor of Primorsko Municipality was issued an order from 13 July 2017, No 709, for the removal of illegal construction, a one-storey building with hexagonal form, located in the district of Z A. according to the plan of Novo Panicharevo village, Primorsko municipality. On 2 October this year, a further review of an illegal construction by the DNCC has been carried out, although it is outside our jurisdiction at present. I'll tell you what administrative action we're going to take. You asked the right question. We have the opportunity. In the examination it has been found that the illegal construction has not been abolished, which is why its immediate removal has been ordered. We have this right to control the municipal administrations how to carry out control of the sites in the fourth, fifth and sixth categories. The deadline is one month. You know what the clauses are, what are the administrative-criminal provisions in the Law on the Construction of the Area: If the illegal construction is not removed, administrative responsibility of the guilty persons will be sought in this case by the municipality of Primorsko. These are the persons who have not taken the necessary action. And in this regard, we will exercise our full right of control. As I mentioned, we have no follow-up action in the municipal administration area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u126	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Tishev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u127	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Mr. Minister. It is good that some action has been taken by the Ministry, however, because the municipality of Primorsko clearly does not want to fulfil the obligations entrusted to it by Law. My question is: should a Member of the National Assembly ask a question to the Minister in order to have any subsequent action? Because those actions that the DNCC carried out in the last month could have been carried out, the law allowed them, and in the previous years. But there's no reaction. One more question. In your reply, I did not understand within what time, if the municipal authorities in Primorsko fail to comply with the duties and regulations of the Ministry, the sanctions will be imposed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. Would you like a hole, Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the House, Mr. Tishev! For the timeline of events. I can't agree with the fact that because of your question, the DNC has moved. The issue is introduced to the Ministry's business and to the National Assembly's Law. We have carried out a check on how the municipal administration respects its legal powers in controlling the illegal construction of the fourth, fifth and sixth category. The fact is, since July 13th, a warrant has been issued. However, we are talking about an administrative procedure, as an order has been issued by the municipal administration. For constructions first and second category the first step in removing illegal construction is from the DNCC. We have a choice of performer. The order may be appealed by administrative procedure in an administrative court. Then an order is issued when we have a decision in force. When we have an elected contractor for the removal of illegal construction, a contract letter shall proceed by setting a date and time for the removal of the object. It, as an administrative act, could also be appealed. We have a one-month period after the delivery letter, its issue and its entry into force, because you ask exactly what the deadline is. Thirty days is by law. If the elimination is not implemented afterwards, we are going through all the statutory procedures, then we should also take our action on the relative verification. On October 2nd, we don't have an object removed. At the moment, we want the documentation available to see what the hypothesis is and why the municipality was delayed because of the lack of an elected contractor or an appeal against the order? Or the letter of assignment? I'll let you know in writing as soon as I get a response from Primorsko Municipality. With all the strictness of the Law, as it is done, we will fulfill our commitments and powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u130	Thank you, dear Minister. The second question is from the National Representative Todor Baychev concerning: has the control-technical inspection been made with regard to the number of agricultural equipment that is duly purchased and registered with them and the number of permits issued for the movement of extra-large road vehicles under the conditions of art. 8, para. 2 and 3 of Decree No 11 of the Council of Ministers of 3 July 2001. Have an assessment and analysis of the economic effect and effectiveness of the application of the above-mentioned Ordinance been carried out? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! According to the current Road Traffic Act and Decree No 11 of the Council of Ministers of 3 July 2001, traffic on the roads from the national road network of oversized and/or heavy road vehicles is paid, with the order, manner, methodology being defined in Section IV of the abovementioned Ordinance. The agricultural equipment, which in its vast part has gauges, shall also be included in the requirements of the legislator for out-of-the-board road vehicles referred to in art. 14 in connection with Art. 8 of Decree No 11 of the Council of Ministers on road traffic from the national road network of out-of-the-board and/or heavy road vehicles. I believe that the order and methodology in the regulation in question are outdated and do not correspond to the current working conditions or to the modern methodologies. Another side of the question is that especially during the harvest it is important every hour or day on the conclusion of the harvest. As a basis for comparison I can give something else: 2169 machines have been purchased in 2015, which is a kind of record and only 254 permits have been issued. In this case, my question to you is: has KTI been consulted on the number of agricultural equipment that has been duly purchased and registered with them and the number of permits issued for the movement of extra-sized road vehicles under the conditions of art. 8, para. 2 and 3 of Decree No 11 of the Council of Ministers? Has an assessment and analysis of the economic effect and effectiveness of the application of the above-mentioned Ordinance been carried out?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Baychev, according to the amendments and additions of Ordinance No 11 of 3 July 2001 on the movement of extra-large or heavy road vehicles, new, SG No. 97 from 6 December 2016, in force from 1 January 2017, it is intended for wheeled tractors, tractor trailers and other road driving equipment for the agricultural holding registered for work under the Agricultural and Forestry Control Act to move with a one-year permit valid for the area indicated in the application and the border areas issued by the administration managing the road, which is agreed with the relevant control service at the Ministry of Interior. The permit does not apply to motorways and roads, as well as to roads of I, II and III class included in Annex 6 to that Regulation. A year-long permit relieves farmers using the said technique. In addition, payments of tolls due by consumers seasonally using the technique due to the specifics of their business are thus encouraged. From the beginning of May to the 20th of October this year, that is, for nearly six months, 576 permits were issued worth 88 thousand. BGN 370. In comparison, for the period from May to December 2016, 135 permits of 23 thousand were issued by two months longer. BGN 949. The analysis shows that during the 6 months period the increase in the issued documents was 441 pieces and the increase in revenue from fees amounted to 64 thousand. BGN 421. The Road Infrastructure Agency does not support statistics on the number of registered agricultural equipment purchased. He has no jurisdiction under the law. The same is not necessary for the purposes of Regulation No 11, since only this technique, which exceeds the maximum permissible width within the range of 2,55 m to 4,50 m including, i.e. does not cover the full range of agricultural machinery with a one-year permit. By amending and supplementing the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment, in force from 1 January 2016, the registration and control regime of agricultural and forestry machinery is reorganised. The control-technical inspection of the Ministry of Health and its regional services in the country is closed and the new functions of the Inspectorate are transferred to the relevant Regional.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u134	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u135	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Members of the National Assembly! First, I would like to thank Minister Nankov for his correct response. It is clear from the data it has exported that the amounts entered into the budget are of a small amount of EUR 88 thousand. lv. for about a year. I think that's certainly less than 1%, maybe a thousandth or a tenth of a percent. It doesn't matter. I'm aware there's not enough money in the country. Does this mean that a sector that works, develops and is competitive in the international market, to burden it with unnecessary paperwork and bureaucracy?! Example. Processing documents at the DMV cost 50 leva. The processing of documents in KTI costs 50 BGN, and the so-called license for equipment from 2.50 to 3.20 ms is from 33 to 100 BGN, i.e. if they pay the maximum amount, the processing of documents is the value of the permit itself. Another is the question of width over 3,20 m there already jumps to 170 BGN. I do not understand why the cost of labor is so expensive in Bulgaria. Mr. Nankov, you are Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, but if you engage people to fuck stones and make pavements, you will pave the whole of Sofia and it will come out cheaper than the valuations given at the moment. You, as Minister, were quick to respond to you last Thursday, and the commitment you made fulfilled it, for which I thank you, but the regulation in question is archaic and not applicable at this time. I think you can safely offer a new modern Regulation and these fees to be dropped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u136	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. Mr. Secretary? You're not gonna make a doppelganger. The last question to Minister Nankov is from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov on readiness for the winter season of the roads in the country from the Road Infrastructure Agency. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u137	Dear Madam Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Mrs. Tsacheva! Hello! As Mr. Baychev said, you are cooperative enough, but not only that. You, Mr. Nankov, take things very seriously. For this reason, because we know that the winter season is coming, especially in December around the holidays, a large part of the population goes on the road, in such cases quite often we get caught up in situations that tell us about the TVs about how the roads are unprepared, unclean, how hardly the snow has surprised us and the snow is presented as a phenomenon that nowhere else in the world is happening. For this reason and given that you are already in such preparation, and perhaps you have already completed it, my question is: would you be so kind as to let us know what is the degree of readiness at the time of API for collateral during the winter season of roads from the national republican infrastructure?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u138	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u139	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Alexandrov, on behalf of the Road Infrastructure Agency was established the necessary organization to meet the winter season. Checks were carried out at support points of the readiness of road support companies. The availability of inert materials is more than 60% on average. Every year we start with about 55-60% availability of materials from the required quantities throughout the country. Three thousand machines will clean the Republican road network. An inventory is made on regional road managements for their availability, assembly with the necessary paddles, ready to perform activities in winter conditions. There are district road stations with fully equipped equipment at 100%. In other areas, the equipment is committed to ongoing repairs, but the companies declare that it can be refurbished in 24 hours, and this is declared in writing. If they fail to fulfil their obligations, they also suffer material sanctions. Checks will continue monthly throughout the winter season and sanctions will be imposed on those who fail to deal with their obligations under maintenance contracts, as I mentioned. On October 31st, that day, a National Meeting was held at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works under my supervision. It was reported to ensure the winter cleaning of the road network in the country. All the directors of regional road stations were present. I can also declare to you that all regional road departments have been checked, the directors have been prepared, the weather forecast is monitored to ensure the necessary organisation within a maximum of 24 hours. The resources for winter maintenance of the Republican road network are within 80 million. lv. In better weather conditions, we hope for such, and saving funds, which, if not spent for winter maintenance, will be redirected to ongoing road repairs in the next year 2018. Six regional meetings were held in the period 18 October this year, i.e. by the end of last week, with the participation of representatives of the Central Administration of the Road Infrastructure Agency, the regional road administration, the territorial structures of the Ministry of Interior, the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration and the road support companies. You see what administrative capacity is available for the quality of this activity. Good coordination between all institutions is a fact and it is essential and a role for quality winter maintenance. The meetings took into account the readiness of each of these institutions involved in the process of ensuring the normal passage of the Republican road network in winter conditions and the safety of travellers, as discussed issues related to coordination of actions between the Parties. The winter maintenance of the Republican Road Network was introduced by order of the Chairman of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency on 1 November this year. The necessary actions are taken to ensure the safe travel of the drivers on the high-mountain roads and the old-mountain passes, especially such as Petrohan, Troyan-Kurnare, Shipka, Predela in southern Bulgaria, the districts of Smolyan. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] One sentence and I'm done. The Agency receives daily information from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences on weather conditions and the forecast for the upcoming precipitation, according to which it takes the necessary preventive action. When forecasting expected weather deterioration in certain areas, the Agency publishes information on its website, cautioning drivers. We therefore call again on Bulgarian drivers to put their winter tires on those who have not, as the process is bilateral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u140	Thank you, dear Minister. Come in for a cue, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u141	Thank you very much, Minister, for your comprehensive response. Perhaps more as a wish to you and to us this winter will be more seamless and indeed all of us will comply with the rules so that it can be with minimal difficulties for API and with minimal difficulty for drivers who will be on the road, as this cost human lives in the end. Thank you and wish you a lighter welcome to the winter conditions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u142	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. A hole? You won't use it. Thank you for the participation of Minister Nankov in today's parliamentary control. The last question is to the Minister of Justice Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva from Polina Tsankova-Hristova on the effectiveness of the European funds used for reforms in judicial systems. Here you are, Mrs. Christova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u143	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 12 October 2017, the Regulation establishing the European Public Prosecutor's Office was adopted by the Member States which are part of the enhanced cooperation for the establishment of the European Prosecutor's Office, including Bulgaria. The European Prosecutor's Office will bring together the efforts of the European and national law enforcement authorities in combating fraud with EU funds and will work with them in close cooperation. The natural question arises: how does the Bulgarian government see the collaboration with the European Prosecutor's Office? It is widely known that Bulgaria is defined as the poorest country in the European Union and as a country with the most unreformed judicial system, which does not enjoy the trust of its European partners. The co-operation and verification mechanism on progress in judicial reform, in the fight against corruption and organised crime has continued to apply for 10 years and the European Commission has not yet found satisfactory results on the six indicators applicable to Bulgaria. At the same time, the Commission has provided generous financial and technical support to support reforms. For the 2007-2013 programming period, Bulgaria was granted 51 million. EUR within the framework of the Operational Programme for the Development of Administrative Capacity in the Judicial System. A priority axis for the judiciary with a budget of more than 30 million was included in the Operational Programme for Good Governance in the new programming period 2014-2020. Euros. In 2016, Bulgaria requested assistance from the European Commission's Structural Reform Support Office to prepare an independent analysis of the prosecution. As a result, experts prepared a report on the functioning of the prosecution, which also made recommendations. In relation to what I have said, my questions are: what is the effectiveness of the European funds used, to whom and how does this effectiveness be taken into account? And another question: what is your personal efficiency as Minister of Justice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u144	Thank you, dear Mrs. Christova. For an answer, Mrs. Tsacheva, Minister of Justice. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u145	Dear Madam President, Dear Mrs. Hristova, Dear Members of Parliament! I will answer your second question first: my personal efficiency will be appreciated by you, the MPs, and Prime Minister Borisov's cabinet on how I perform and do my job. As for the first question, without commenting on my motives, some of them are irrelevant to the question, but as it is asked: what is the effectiveness of the European funds used, to whom and how this effectiveness is taken into account, I answer you the following. European Union funds for the modernisation of the judiciary are provided for the principle of money against reforms. The key national document in the area of justice is the updated strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary adopted by the government and approved by a decision of the Forty-third National Assembly. The strategy has a horizon of seven years to coincide with the financial period in which the funds are allocated. The Council of Ministers adopted in 2016 a roadmap to implement the updated strategy. The implementation of the road map measures is financially supported by the Operational Programme "Good management" financed by the European Union budget, namely the European Social Fund. We provide additional funding for the reforms under the Swiss and Norwegian mechanism. The effectiveness of each project is subject to constant checks and reports to international financial institutions, national authorities responsible, non-governmental sector and to internal financial control. I provide more specific information on the completed projects and those in progress. The project "Inventarization and analysis of the state of information and communication infrastructure, information systems, services and registers in the sector "Justice" has been completed. In the process of implementation are the following projects related to reforming the judiciary. I will probably not have the time, but there are 12 in number and I will present them to you in writing: Modernization of the penitentiary system in Bulgaria; development of the potential of the human resources of the judiciary by building an effective model for the acquisition of legal capacity; development and implementation of an electronic information system; national register of supports; realization of a national register of powers; increasing the guarantees for a fair process in executive proceedings by building an information system; realization of a centralised automated information system; new concept of criminal policy; order and loan of administrative and information systems and minor authorising officers with the aim of switching to use and exchange only electronic documents and electronic content in the sector by the executive authorities; training of staff for work with automatic information systems and electronic documents; encouraging the use of mediation as an alternative means of dispute resolution; building funds for video-conferences and their use in the phases of pre-trial and judicial proceedings, including in cross-border cooperation with the judiciary; and electronic documents; encouraging the use of mediation as an alternative means of mediation, as an alternative means of dispute resolution; [[the President signals that time has run out]] on the use of information resources in the executive bodies in the justice sectors. In the back, I'll probably complete the answer to my question as time... Ms. Karayancheva is very strict in reporting the seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u146	There were 40 seconds more, Madam Secretary. Here you are, Mrs. Christova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I am so pleased with the answer so far and I ask you to continue in the back with the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u148	Here you are, Madam Secretary. We'll take advantage of the line time, so you can talk for over two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u149	Mrs. Chairman! Mrs. Hristova, what lies behind the specific names of the projects on which the Ministry of Justice is working, we are on some together with the Supreme Judicial Council in implementation of the updated judicial reform strategy, as well as in the roadmap on the recommendations of the last Annual Report of the European Commission on the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism. I can assure you that the deadlines within which the recommendations of our partners are intended to be implemented are respected. The only problem still seeking a solution that is very complex is the burden of judicial structures. I am referring to courts and prosecutions, as this workload is not equal between the different units. There are district, district courts that are less burdened, at the expense of others, who, in view of the size of the administrative unit they serve, certainly have a higher number of cases. You have rightly mentioned that we are also receiving funds under the European Structural Reform Office. Such funds were made available at the end of 2016 to carry out an analysis of the prosecution. In the mandate of our current government with Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Zaharieva, who is in charge of judicial reform, and I have asked for funds to be allocated to us in three more directions related in general to the work of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Supreme Administrative Court, the administrative administration and criminal justice. We have the assurance that these funds will be allocated by March 2018. We work in good dialogue and communication with our partners. And the last thing I want to finish with, we are implementing the recommendations on the cooperation and evaluation mechanism within the time limit, all the more so, that we are waiting very recently for another report, which will be announced and I hope objectively that these efforts will be taken into account by the European Commission, as well as the inability to revert the results achieved so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-03.u150	Thank you, dear Minister. We should thank Minister Tsacheva for participating in today's parliamentary control. Colleagues, this was also the last question about today's parliamentary control. The next regular plenary session shall be held on 8 November 2017 at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
