ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the following additional item be included in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly. We have resigned from the National Representative Nina Mitkova on 27 September 2017. I propose that this be the first point for Friday, 29 September 2017. First vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, importer: Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, to become the second item for Friday, 29 September 2017 respectively. Please vote. Vote 172 MPs: 157 against 2 and abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I make a procedural proposal to extend the period between the first and second reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior of the maximum period of 3 weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. Please vote on the proposal. The vote is 172 MPs: 163, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Message: On 27 September 2017, the National Assembly received: - Final Audit Report No 0600-100-817 for an audit carried out on the Report on the implementation of the budget of the State Social Security for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 with an opinion on the Review on the implementation of the budget of the State Social Security for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. - Final Audit Report No 0600-100-917 for an audit carried out by the Audit Officer for the implementation of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 with an opinion on the Review for the implementation of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. By letters of the President of the National Assembly, the materials were sent respectively to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We continue with the next item of our program: ANNUAL REPORT BY THE COMMISSION ON REGULATION OF MESSAGES FOR 2016 Importer is the Communications Regulation Commission, on 30 June 2017. There is a report from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The President of the Commission will introduce you to Mr. Halil Letifov. You have the floor, dear Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If I may, admission procedure in plenary. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please be admitted to the Chamber Mr. Veselin Bozhkov, Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission, Mrs. Irina Romanska, Member of CRC, Mrs. Milena Petkova and Mrs. Boryana Stoeva, Head of Departments in the Directorate of Market Regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u5	Please vote on the proposal made. Vote 153 MPs: 148 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Bozhkov to the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u6	Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u7	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on an annual report by the Communications Regulation Commission for 2016, No 720-00-11, submitted by the Communications Regulation Commission on 30 June 2017. At the meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on 19 July 2017, the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2016, No 720-00-11, submitted by the Communications Regulation Commission on 30 June 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Dimitar Genovski, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Veselin Bozhkov, Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission, Commissioners, Mrs. Andriana Atanasova and Mrs. Irina Romanska, experts from the Commission and representatives of branch organizations in the field of electronic communications. The annual report was presented by Mr. Veselin Bozhkov. The annual report of the Communications Regulation Commission drawn up on the basis of art. 38, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications is an analysis of the development and progress in the electronic communications sector for 2016. In the presentation of the report Mr. Bozhkov outlined the main trends in the development of the electronic communications market in Bulgaria for 2016. According to data from the CRC register as of 31 December 2016, a total of 1134 companies registered their intention to carry out a public electronic communications activity, with in one year their number dropped by 2.4%. In the performance of art. 5 of the General Terms and Conditions for Public Electronic Communications received information from a total of 1040 enterprises. In 2016, 856 enterprises were active, with a decrease in their number compared to the previous year being 4.04 per cent. This reflects on the total volume of the electronic communications market in Bulgaria during the year, which amounted to 2,480 billion in 2016. BGN, decreasing by 0.99% compared to 2015. Both in previous years and in 2016 the total volume of the electronic communications market in Bulgaria is determined by the revenues from voice services, package services and data transfer services and/or access to the Internet offered on its own. Mr. Bozhkov noted that in 2016. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. in the case of planned 2015 503 million. lv. These figures show that the investments planned by the companies for 2016 were made at 95%. The CRC President pointed out that taking into account the trend of dynamic data traffic in mobile networks, as early as the first half of 2016, additional radio frequency spectrum in the 1800 MHz range was provided to mobile operators. Thus the CRC has created conditions for the development and wide penetration of 4G networks and the provision of 4G services on the territory of Bulgaria. In order to increase the effectiveness of control activities related to the implementation of electronic communications and compliance with the requirements of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature, inspection checks were carried out in 2016. It was pointed out that particular attention was paid to compliance with the requirements of the Law on Electronic Communications with regard to the protection of public interest and the interests of end-users. In this regard Mr. Bozhkov stressed that about 49% of the inspection visits were carried out to the three largest companies providing electronic communications services - BTC EAD, Mobiltel In 2016, 4 planned checks were carried out on compliance with the requirements of the Law on Electronic Document and the Electronic Signature, where there were no violations of the requirements of the Law. After the presentation of the Report was held a discussion, which took part the MPs Halil Letifov and Dimitar Danchev, Mr. Bozhkov, representatives of the Association of Bulgarian Radio and Television Operators and of THERAPRO - Association for Protection of Legal Distribution of Television Content in Bulgaria. The representatives of the branch organizations expressed the opinion that some of the cable operators did not correctly take into account the number of their subscribers to the Communications Regulation Commission. In this regard, they pointed out the need for legal amendments in order to strengthen CRC's powers to carry out monitoring and control. As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 13 votes for the Council and 7 votes abstentions proposed that the National Assembly accept the following: Project! DECISION adopting the 2016 Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 17 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 90, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 38, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2016 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u8	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. I'm calling off the debate. I give the floor for speeches. Are there any speeches? I don't see any speeches. Mr. Bozhkov, will you take the attitude? No. In that case, I shall close the debate. Let's move on to the vote. We vote: Project! DECISION adopting the 2016 Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 17 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 90, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 38, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2016 They voted 163 MPs: 120, none, abstention 43. The 2016 Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission has been adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: ANNUAL COMMISSION REPORT ON REGULATION OF MESSAGES 2016 ????????????????????????????????????????????????? Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Here you go, Mr. Tashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u9	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the 2016 Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission supplied by the Communications Regulation Commission on 30 June 2017. At its regular meetings held on 19 July 2017 and 13 September 2017, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications examined the 2016 Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission. The annual report was submitted by the Communications Regulation Commission on 30 June 2017 and the Annex with the corrections to the Annual Report, No 720-00-17, submitted by the Communications Regulation Commission on 7 August 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Dimitar Genovski, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Deyan Daneshki, Executive Director of the Bulgarian Posts, Mr. Veselin Bozhkov, Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission, and the members of the Communications Regulation Commission, Ms. Andreana Atanasova and Mrs. Irina Romanska, as well as experts from the Commission. Mr. Veselin Bozhkov presented the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2016 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In the Report drawn up on the basis of art. 17, para. 1 of the Postal Services Act, an analysis was made of the provision of universal and non-universal postal services in the country. It also contains information about the state of competition in the postal market. It states that the postal services sector is developing rapidly in recent years, mainly due to changing market conditions and the development of consumer needs, which, in turn, entails a change in demand for postal services. During the presentation of the Report to the members of the Commission it was claimed that the provision of the universal postal service across the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and of services covered by the universal postal services and the provision of the service of postal cash transfers are carried out on the basis of individual licences issued by the Communications Regulation Commission. At the end of 2016, the number of postal market participants was 160, which represents an increase of 4% compared to the previous year. Mr. Bozhkov noted that in 2016 the volume of the postal market amounted to around 393 million. lv. and is formed by the revenues provided in the market segments of universal postal services and non-universible postal services. This volume is calculated on the basis of the data obtained from 73% of the licensed and registered operators in Bulgaria. The report noted that the volume of the postal market shows a growth of 25% compared to 2015. The development engine of the postal market in recent years is the services of the non-universal postal services segment, but still in 2016 and the revenues of universal postal services have increased by reaching an increase of 18% compared to 2015. The total number of consignments and services provided in 2016 amounted to 184 million. No., which represents an increase of about 5% compared to 2015. The reported increase in the number of postal items and services in 2016 compared to 2015 is due to the increase by nearly 5% in consignments of the non-universible postal services segment and an increase of 4% in the number of delivered consignments of universal postal services scope. The Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of postal services for 2016 states that the market share of the Bulgarian Posts is reduced by 3 percentage points compared to 2015, as the main reasons are the reduced volume of the services carried out by the market segment of universal postal services, while maintaining the volume of revenues from the market segment of non-universal postal services, as well as the significant growth of courier services carried out by competing operators. The data provided in the Report indicates a 7% reduction in the share of the Bulgarian postal services in the market segment of universal postal services, calculated on the basis of revenue in 2016 compared to 2015. In the non-universal postal services segment, the market share of the historical operator in 2016 fell by 1% compared to 2015 and reached up to 4 percent of the total revenues generated by the non-universal postal services provided. [[Noise and lines.]] According to the data summarised by the Communications Regulation Commission in the Report, the revenue from universal postal services amounted to around 77 million in 2016. lv. and rose from 2015 to about 18%. The number of delivered shipments and services of universal postal services in total for the country and abroad is around 38 million. The Annual Report states that the analysis of non-ubiquitous postal services includes the provision of courier services up to 35 kg, hybrid mail, direct postal advertising and additional services The revenue from non-ubiquitous postal services in 2016 amounted to 305 million. BGN, compared to 2015 grew by about 27%. For the same period, the total number of consignments processed was 136 million. No., which is an increase of 3% compared to 2015. During the period considered, courier services form almost 90% of the non-ubiquitous postal market annually. In a one-year period, their share increased by nearly 3 percentage points, while the direct postal advertising rate decreased by about 3 percentage points. The report noted that in 2016 the revenue from courier services amounted to 282 million. BGN, with in a one-year period they grow by 31%. The total number of couriers accepted, carried over and delivered is 48 million. No. The increase in both revenues and shipments during the reporting period shows a rise in the courier services market, as the main driver of the business is e-commerce. In accordance with the legal obligation to control compliance with postal regulations, requirements for the provision of universal postal service, the conditions for the implementation of the individual licence issued and the obligations of non-universal postal service operators, a total of 137 inspection visits were carried out in 2016 by authorised CRC employees. 10 acts for the identification of an administrative infringement in the field of postal services, of which 9 are for the failure to provide information to CRC and 1 for the violation of art. 105b of the Postal Services Act. In connection with complaints/signs received or following checks carried out by the Directorate-General for Communications and there have been 7 cases of committed administrative criminal liability, in any case criminal decrees have been issued. At the presentation of the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2016 Mr. Bozhkov pointed out to the members of the Commission that in the initial report submitted, by No 720 00 12 of 30 June 2017, adjustments were made, which were reflected in the text sent to the Report and submitted to the National Assembly under No 720-00-17 of 7 August 2017. The reason for the error was the software processing of the information system data of one of the postal operators. That error reflects the data submitted by the operator in the questionnaire on the activity of operators operating services within the scope of the universal postal service for 2016. The error made consists of a duplication of revenue from the execution of postal transfers in two questionnairees for postal transfer operators and for operators operating services within the scope of universal postal services. The corrections submitted require changes to the following sections of the Annual Report: I. State of the postal market in Bulgaria 2. Volume and structure of the postal market in Bulgaria. II. Provision of universal postal services 2. Volume and structure of the universal postal market. 4. State of competition in universal postal services. Mr. Bozhkov also added that due to the incorrect data presented, based on the provision of art. 105, para. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 106 of the Postal Services Act, the operator is subject to sanctions. The corrections submitted in the 2016 Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission The 2016 Postal Service Analyse was discussed and voted at the meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on 13 September 2017. As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications Project! DECISION adopting the 2016 Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission "Search Service Analyse" The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 17 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 90, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in connection with art. 17, para. 1 of the Postal Services Act HAS DECIDED The annual report of the Communications Regulation Commission 2016 shall be adopted. "Thank you very much, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u10	Read her the draft decision, Mr. Tashkov. Do you have it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u11	I read it, that's all.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u12	Did you read it? Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u14	Thank you, dear Mr. Tashkov. I'm opening the debate. Statements? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u15	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Bozhkov, in full harmony goes the discussion of the reports presented by the CRC, but I will allow myself here to raise two questions. One is according to the figures presented in the Commission Report and in the Report, which is presented by CRC and the second issue is essentially about the work and future of the Bulgarian Post Office. What do the numbers indicate as given? I only stop at two digits. This is the paragraph on page two, sorry to read part of it, but to find out what it is about: In the market segment of universal postal services, calculated on the basis of revenue in 2016 compared to 2015, the growth is 77 million. BGN, or is calculated at 18%. "This is recorded in the Commission Report. In the Report, which is presented by the Communications Regulation Commission, in point two: It's about growth, which is about the same postal service, for the same period of time. Where do these 8% differences come from in the Commission Report and the Report presented by the Communications Regulation Commission? What wasn't considered inside? Crossing is quite essential. The second question, which I would like to address and draw attention to the honourable Members, to the attention of the Minister and the Government: is there any idea of the development of the Bulgarian Post Office and what is going on in this market? Because if the growth of universal postal services in one year on the market is 28%, according to one figure given to us - 27% and 18% - according to the other figure given to us - the loss of the market share of the Bulgarian Post Office for the same period of the year is 7%. What is this about, fellow Members of the National Assembly? It's simple stuff. What's going on in the Bulgarian Post Office? How can the share of universal postal services increase by 27%, the market share of 7%? This, calculated in pounds, you know what it looks like? What is the state policy regarding the development of this sector? What is the future of the Bulgarian Post Office, which is the state enterprise in this sector, and what is the responsibility of the minister, the ministry, the government and who disposes of this market? Because, as it becomes known, even for lackeys like me, from this Report, the development of the universal postal market is most likely due to the exceptional dynamics in the development of e-commerce in the last few years, the so-called sites, where people buy different types of goods. What is the policy of the management of the Bulgarian Post Office for participation in this market segment? It seems to me that this is the reason why there is a 7% loss in market share as a side monitor of this process. If possible, the Committee's management shall provide information on the matter. He is hardly able to say what is the state policy in terms of the Bulgarian Post Office, because it seems to me that for years there is none other than to sell the property of this enterprise to a priceless and rent-out company, I have not noticed anything else being done there. The fact that these reports today pass in total silence in plenary, without speeches, including by committees, with obvious factual errors in the reports, speaks extremely badly of the work of both the National Assembly committees and the experts who have provided us with these figures. These reports lack any analysis of the actual situation. I do not know if the Communications Regulation Commission is a registrar for what is happening on the market or can offer solutions to the government, to the ministry to improve the quality of the work of the state enterprise. If we continue to be a registrar, the discontent of Bulgarian citizens with the quality of postal services, the amount of fees, the quality of the service of whole areas of the country will continue to decline. It seems to me that this is a subject worth paying attention to. It will hardly happen today, at this meeting, in the debate on these reports, but it seems to me that the duty of the MPs and the committees I mentioned is to change their purely formal attitude towards the adoption of these reports and the commitments of the executive. We are dealing here with the very big policy issues, but how does one of the biggest Bulgarian state enterprises work for sure?No one raises a sentence on the matter. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u16	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov! Replies to Mr. Zablyanov's statement? I don't see any lines. Here you are, Mr. Shopov. Yes, I'm sorry Mr. Shopov, Mr. Bozhkov asked for the floor to answer Mr. Zablyanov, then you will speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u17	Madam President, Vice-Presidents, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, thank you for your attention, secondly, for the comments made by Mr. Zablyanov. As he himself said, some of them relate to other institutions, including the executive power, which I cannot commit to answer, although I have a position on these issues. Regarding the first question: why is there a gap? Perhaps there is a discrepancy in the Report which Mr. Zablyanov read because we had two meetings of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and I would like to say that I am not a lawyer, but I think the Commission in this Chamber is working extremely consciously. We have examined twice the 2016 Annual Postal Services Report, because at the last moment there have been adjustments, for the reason that the "Econt Express" is one of the largest operators in postal services, which duplicates twice a sum of 6 million and in fact these 6 million have made that difference. Therefore, in the first Report, we have a volume of the postal market of 399 million, which is an increase of 27%, as Mr. Zablyanov rightly pointed out, but the second Report, which was adopted with the corresponding adjustments, thanks to these duplicates of 6 million. BGN, the market becomes 393 million and the increase is 25%. Accordingly, the total revenue from the universal postal service of 83 million So you just have to read it. I think you may have made this mistake because you read the first and not the second report, which was final a week ago. That's how I answered the first question. Regarding the state of the Bulgarian postal market. As few people may know, but I am also the chairman of the European Postal regulator, which is an assessment of the work and of the Communications Regulation Commission, from the view that I have at European Union level, I can say that Bulgaria is the only country in which we have an increase in revenue, because it is no secret that traditional postal services, especially in recent years, are losing place and, as you have said, more modern services are e-commerce, hybrid mail and so on. In this respect, we must be happy that both the executive and the Commission create sufficient conditions to promote investment, sufficient conditions to promote competition. As a result, as is noted in the Report, we have an increase in postal items by 5% and revenue by 25%. As far as the situation of the historical enterprise is concerned, this trend is not only typical of Bulgaria, it is characteristic of all countries of the European Union, and indeed at the end of the day we opened the market, ensuring that we are an open market economy. Economic players according to their qualities, with their capacity increase their influence and as a result the market share of the historical enterprise in the last three years, if we catch the trend 2014 The other moment, which is within our competence, is an assessment of the burden of performing the universal postal service. Every year you know that an audit is being carried out and this year the audit that the company has done proved to have 17 million. weight. Our experts have examined it and we confirm this 17 million. lv. to be made as compensation for the provision of the universal postal service by the Bulgarian Post Office. Of course, there is more to be desired in terms of quality of the service. Where they have violations, of course, we do checks and sanction them, but in terms of network development, we do not allow the closure of post offices anywhere if they do not prove that they can in an alternative way with the mobile stations concerned and so on, provide the same level or better quality of service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u18	Thank you, dear Mr. Bozhkov! [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u19	There is no such procedure, Mr. Zablyanov. It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u20	Mrs. Chairman! I'm sorry to have to get into this procedure, but this is about something serious. The question is not, Mr. Bozhkov, which report have I read and which option? The question is, who's being dealt out right now? This is the report, the text that stands before me and which we must vote on. If there is another version of the Report, why hasn't it been distributed and when has it been adopted to the Commission with the adjusted figures? I accept what you're saying as a factual explanation, but then there's another, more fundamental question: which Report do we accept? Here, here, second from when, with which number? Because this one is on 30 June 2017. Is this Report about No 750-01-83? If we accept this report, it is with the actual error and there is a gap between the Commission report with 6 million levs, as Mr. Bozhkov said, and the report we accept to the Communications Regulation Commission. If otherwise, please make appropriate adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u21	Thank you, Mr. Jablyanov! Here we have given another Report. Besides the one that is on 30 June 2017, there is one that is dated 7 August 2017, perhaps this is the corrected Report. There is a second report that is attached to the documentation, which is, I suppose, with the corrected figures and it corresponds to the report, which just read Mr. Tashkov because there are corrections here. Yeah, there he is. In the amount of 27%, crossed out, 18%, the second. Yeah, the misunderstanding's clear. Colleagues, other speeches. Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u22	Thank you, Madam President. My coming out of the stands could also have been in the form of a line regarding the statement of my esteemed Mr. Zablyanov. I'm taking the floor to give you a little more time, Mr. Zablyanov. I come out as a leic, as you said, to respond to a leic, because you mentioned in your speech that in this quality you go out and talk. I will try to explain to you, as one of BSP's ideologists, that you are one and I respect your opinion to explain to you from where and why this is happening so that your concerns about reducing BTC's market share by six or eight percent are being made. Yeah, that's true, but these are objective things. Mr. Bozhkov explained some of the reasons. This is the reality, this is the economic and market model, including in the niche we are talking about in terms of BTC. This is because our Constitution says that Bulgaria is a social, not a socialist, social state, but in fact its entire economy and everything is subject to liberal rules. Bulgaria is essentially a liberal country in terms of economics and everything else. Hence, especially during your management of the BSP in the triple coalition, and when you managed, it was largely realized this time: from a social state in a liberal state, including the economy, of the economic model. Hence this service and these activities, which in the normal, classical state, are one of the symbols of statehood, there is no doubt about that, have been brought into the last ten, fifteen years in a niche, in one state as they are in the federal state. The branch was liberated, the whole system was liberated and many private companies entered it, various Bulgarian legal and foreign legal entities, and there is no dispute in that. In this way the entire share of the market shrinks in terms of the opportunities of BTC, it is natural, Mr. Zablyanov, the logic is simple, and hence the market share falls. Therefore, your concerns and concerns are explained in a simple and simple, logical way. And you have to understand that. Perhaps your speech is in the context of what BSP is constantly doing to jump for everything, to challenge, to challenge. You find this figure from so much to so many, and you are re-entering as a critic. You're an extremely serious man. Don't, I'd just advise you to keep things small in the gym to one-on-one, one-on-one, one-on-one... Think logically. There is no wonder that it reduces market share. This, Mr. Zablyanov, and anyone who would stand up to oppose is not a question of mismanagement. It is a matter of objective laws, of objective market developments, of Bulgaria being a liberal state, that some foreign companies enter and operate here, and I will not mention the names of famous worldwide companies where we see cars moving across the country with shipments. They're competing with BTC. If you will, I am a layman, but I am aware of the fact that Bulgarian private companies in the industry also sell their property to foreign companies and more and more this activity is seized by foreigners, by foreign guests who come, suck the Bulgarian market, the Bulgarian consumer. Liberals, liberals will say: this is good, there is competition. According to my ideas, the Bulgarian economy is just a broken yard in which they come, operate, earn, export the profits and we will remain poor. But this is a question, Mr. Zablyanov, of strategic, economic, political, general state vision. So I'm going out to this room and I'm going to do it every time there's a place for a collision of these problems. And I am much closer with you in my views than with liberals, liberals, those who have allowed this situation of things, because by this logic of things I can and I am sure that you will also start criticizing: why the market share, for example the electricity that shines on us, at the prima vista I say, in this room, at the moment the state is already zero in the distribution of electricity. Because the liberal model made us give the three energy distribution companies somewhere, someone who wins. Some families in Vienna and other cities, who knows where, live and waste, have property in Bulgaria for free and the market share of the Bulgarian state, which could benefit from electricity, to enter the state budget, is zero. So let's talk objectively and when we think about these things, think about the big categories, think about the real reasons, not the Bulgarians blaming each other for bad governance and all kinds of things, I won't list sins that make us pour ashes on our heads and blame ourselves.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr Shopov! I didn't mean to speak, but in the context of your speech I will allow myself to give you a reply, because you have well outlined the situation in which they are working, perhaps not only "Bulgarian Post Offices" but every state enterprise, but when an enterprise loses market share, believe me, the majority of the reason this is happening is management and management. To get your market share, you have to let this thing go. When you have a passive attitude on the other side, you close your eyes, you create conditions for this thing to happen, there's no way private companies can not take advantage. Mr. Zablyanov is right when he asks the question, and this is our job, because really the reports are a constructive part of what happened in 2016 and we cannot now change themq as well as vote, but we can show our attitude to what they were doing in this case............................. I'll give you just one example from last year. There are desks at the post offices that collect electricity bills, heating bills, phones, utility payments. At the Bulgarian Post Office, these desks worked until 17.00, provided that the post office was open until 7:00 p.m. at 17.00 p.m. they closed so that the people who had to pay their bills could go outside to private companies. This is the management that we asked the question about at the time. I think the Bulgarian Post Offices made some decision to make them work a little later, but there was no explanation. This is probably with any activity of the Bulgarian Post Office. The place of this conversation is really to conduct it in the Transport Commission to see how the Bulgarian Post Offices develop, what is the vision of the managers for this company, do they want to have it, or do they want it gone? Because as much as they want to have it, one of the majority wants this company to end, because it has a base, there are branches, there are staff. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Yes, I'm done, Madam President. From this point of view, I can agree with what you said, Mr. Shopov, about the whole environment in which the Bulgarian Post Offices work, but I cannot agree that management is not responsible. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Another line? Here you go, Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Shopov! Today we are debating an issue that is important in a field where more than ten thousand people are working, posters, participants in this activity in the Bulgarian Post Office and not in BTC, who unfortunately perform an important function for the state despite the huge competition of Bulgarian and foreign private companies. I believe that there is a place for the state to support the Bulgarian Post Company because they face serious competition, they have big problems, and the state might be interested in whether the state administration, the state companies take advantage of the possibility of the Bulgarian Post Office and not seek the services of private companies in order to obtain one or another personal benefit. I believe that the possibility that the Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, who was until now Deputy Director of the Bulgarian Post Office, and is now Deputy Minister, is appointed with such a task to support this important for the state company. I believe that he will make it possible to change things so that the state finds its place in the support of posters and of the Bulgarian Posts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. Is there gonna be a third line? I can't see. Mr. Shopov, douche bag? There won't be. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u28	Madam President, honourable Members! I didn't intend to take this topic seriously, but since my previous colleague reminded me a lot about the time in 2005, when in fact the triple coalition in the face of Petar Mutafchiev, who was the Minister of Transport, started and laid the foundations for the breakdown of the Bulgarian post office or, more precisely, the looting. Let us remember these things, since some reproaches have been made about the present condition. As people who are analytical, and people who need to look for the reason why this happened, we should say that at this time the disbandment of the Bulgarian Post Office is started. Moreover, at this time I remember, I think Harmandzhiev was the head of the Bulgarian Post Office at the time............................................................................................. It was thus given the opportunity without the Bulgarian Post Office to be prepared for a competitive situation, many private companies and large external companies were admitted on the track of the Bulgarian Post Offices. So very quickly they became prey to large private companies and private interests. So, when we sit down today and talk about the Report and the condition of BTC and respectively of the Bulgarian Post Offices, we need to remember the genesis from where and how it started, because even then the model was set up the Bulgarian Post Offices not to work and in time they should have a slightly quiet function. Therefore, I do not see anything surprising today when we look at these reports, what is the real state. I took the liberty of saying these things because the memory of some people is cheating, of others not, the younger ones do not know, but let us draw the relevant conclusions, and when we are talking about a state and about preserving state interests we should say the way in which the condition of the post office has reached this point, of BTC as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ivanov, when you recall 2009 and press charges...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u31	2005
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u32	...2005 and you are blaming the beginning of the looting of the Bulgarian Post Office, when a minister was a colleague of ours, from 2005 to 2017 12 years have passed, in which 10 rules GERB. Where have you been? You were a Member of the National Assembly during all these years, including 2005 "2009." Why didn't you give a signal to the authorities that should take care of the state's order that the Bulgarian Post Office is being looted? Why did you stay here in these places and wait to see what would happen if there was such a looting that you claim? The example that I gave was from last year and not from 2005. That is, let the path that is set be analyzed, but let it be analyzed correctly and correctly. And if there are any accusations that someone has allowed themselves to plunder the Bulgarian Post Office, there are authorities that have to do this thing and reach out to the person who caused these things. And from this tribune to throw accusations, I don't think it makes any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Second line, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u34	Madam President, honourable Members! Colleague Ivanov, we're probably talking about a technical error. I take a cue for two reasons, one is moral, the other is factual. It is moral because Enzislav Harmandzhiev is a colleague from my Department of Economics, I have known him for a long time. And second, I know the facts of the Bulgarian Post Office. The period you are talking about when colleague Enzislav Harmandzhiev was released, the Post Office was profiting from 8 million. lv. After that period, changes took place in the Post Office manuals all these years, which led to this condition. So I guess it's just a misunderstanding, first of all. Secondly, let us take occasion from this discussion, because we all understand that thanks to party ladybugs of different colors, especially from some, not to specify them, state companies are in the condition of poor governance, incompetent ladybugs manage state companies in many cases, increasing state companies and draining from friendly private companies. So this, colleague Ivanov, is a great occasion to address this issue in a complex way. But with colleague Harmandzhiev, the Post Office was at record profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Mr. Panchev for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues! Mr. Ivanov, I allow myself to make a line, first because he is my friend Petar Mutafchiev and not as one, but as a former minister, I believe that he did quite well in this ministry and I do not accept the assessment you gave. It is true that Bulgaria has a market economy. It is true that there are already dozens of Bulgarian and foreign companies in Bulgaria and there is serious competition of the Bulgarian Post Offices. What is important are the managements of the Company, and what is important is that, once again, the state must support the public sector. There is room for the state to support the Bulgarian Post Office and we are trying to do so. I think, since it is a serious enterprise, we should also have the opportunity to listen to the management of the Bulgarian Post Office. Such a proposal will be made in the Commission in order to really see the opportunities and prospects for its development. In the future, even greater competition will be and even more difficult will be the activities of this Company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. Mr. Ivanov for the coat, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u38	I'd like to thank my colleagues who made a line for me. Thank you. I will start by reminding that the Law on Bulgarian Posts was changed right during the three coalitions. The Law was then changed for the Bulgarian universal post office. I'm starting from there to change the law. The second thing I thank Mr. Gechev for, I don't see him, but what was said back then was that Mr. Gechev's personal proposal was Mr. Harmandzhiev. Something else. Since you said that the Post Office was on profit, thank you, and for that, exact lists could be drawn as to why they were on profit. Because the sale of some of the property and of the bases of the Bulgarian Post Office began to see how many bases were sold. I don't want to get into this because it's getting too warm. In this case, we are looking at a completely different report and we will deviate from the subject. I came out to make this statement to remind some of the moral stags here, out of this tribune, that they're throwing accusations without reason right now, and to say that $16 million is at a loss. There is no economist and financier, there are also professors who lead departments: when an enterprise does not have the necessary financial capacity, it is not competitive, and when it goes to participate in auctions, it cannot participate in these auctions, it can win. When a company is drained, and when there are no financial opportunities, there is no way in modern conditions of free competition, it will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I understand that the Post Office issue is extremely important and that the numbers in the Report give us reason to have this discussion. But let us not forget that the discussion we are having is for 2016 with the idea of seeing what we are going to do in 2017, 2018, 2019, that is, from now on what we are going to do. The themes of what was 12 years ago, I understand that some colleagues slowly perceive reality and after 12 years have realized what happened, but this is no reason to waste the National Assembly's time with things that...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u41	What's the procedure, Mr. Ermenkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u42	The procedure is to interrupt them, Madam President, because any reminiscences and personal memories when you were here and had the opportunity to actually influence things, and now you're making findings. The only thing that might be the reason, and you're supposed to correct it, is that the guy somewhere slept it off these 12 years and now he's awake. Thank you. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u43	Thank you. We continue with the speeches. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u44	Thank you, Madam President, honourable Members! Let's get back to the Post Office debate. Here I heard various speeches that were not quite accurate, so I would like to make some clarity about the Bulgarian Post Office. First, it was mentioned which Report we were looking at. We are looking at a report which was reviewed on 13 September 2017, as the previous report was a factual error, a double increase in the value of one of the companies. For this reason, an additional Report was viewed at a meeting of our Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. This report has been submitted to the National Assembly, it has been entered.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u45	We found him, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u46	I don't know what part of the coworkers were worried about. Regarding the universal postal service, I heard that the Bulgarian post office lost to the universal postal service from e-commerce. I would like to make it clear that the universal postal service is in no way engaged in e-commerce. The universal postal service is something other than the commercial activity of those enterprises that carry out the different types of activities with regard to delivery of packages, e-commerce and so on. However, with regard to e-commerce, which has also been mentioned, I would like to emphasise that the Bulgarian Post Offices are currently developing a market intervention plan precisely for these electronic services, and I hope that very soon they will provide this plan. This plan will result in revenue in the company and thus this company will be able to stabilise. I hope it goes well soon. These were my explanations regarding the Bulgarian Post Office. I hope they have understood from everyone and we do not need to speculate with the topic "Bulgarian Posts" anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. The confusion came from the fact that there were two reports attached. One is the first, the other is the second, which is from 7 August, and the other is from 30 June, the corrected is from 7 August. Replies to Mr. Ivanov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Let's move on to the vote. I vote on the draft decision adopting the 2016 Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission. "Analyse of the Services of the Services." Vote 157 MPs: 103, against 3, abstention 51. The draft decision has been adopted. Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Volja. Mr. Donchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u48	Dear colleagues! A political party, Volja, is very worried about the information that the Draft Law on the Protection of Minorities in Albania, prepared by the Albanian government, among the recognised minorities available, lacks the Bulgarian one. According to various sources of information, between 50 and 100 thousand people of Bulgarian origin live in Albania. If this results, it will contradict the resolution adopted in February by the European Parliament on Albania, which includes a text confirming the need to grant rights to the Bulgarian population in Mala Prespa, Golo Bardo and Gora. The same document recommends that the Bulgarian minority be recognised in the country's legislation and guaranteed its respective rights. The political party of Volja is sorry that the actions of the Bulgarian MEPs in defence of the representatives of the Bulgarian minority in Albania were not supported by targeted, consecutive actions by the Bulgarian state institutions. For this reason, we call on the cause of the Bulgarians in Albania to become a real priority for the Bulgarian state, to be one of the leading policies for our country during the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of Europe in 2018. Albania's desire and practical actions towards recognition of the Bulgarian minority should be key criteria for the assessment of the authorities in Tirana, for their readiness to continue the process of EU integration.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-28.u49	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Communications of parliamentary control on 29 September 2017 Friday. First will answer the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov to a question by the MP Tasco Ermenkov. Second will answer the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer two questions from the MPs Konstantin Popov; and Kolyo Milev and Vasil Antonov. Third will answer the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to three questions from the MPs Diana Savateva; Petar Vitanov; and Tsvetan Topchiev and two questions from the MPs Anton Kutev and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; and Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savateva. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer two questions from MPs Krum Zarkov; and Tasco Ermenkov. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer a question from the MPs Lalo Kirilov and Krasimir Yankov. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer two questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov; and Anton Kutev. Culture Minister Boel Banov will answer two questions from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev; and Lubomir Bonev. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will answer a question from the MPs Filip Popov, Tsvetan Topchiev, Ivan Genov and Nikolay Ivanov and a question from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to a question with a written answer from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to four questions from the MPs Sevim Ali; Tsveta Karayancheva; Dimitar Georgiev; and Nikolay Tishev and five questions with a written answer from the MPs Nikolay Tishev. Two questions; Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; Ahmed Ademov; and Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Desislava Kostadinova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to two questions with written answer from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; and Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov to two questions with written answer from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; and Stoyan Mirchev and Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to a question with a written answer from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to two questions with written answer from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; and Hasan Ademov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to a question written by the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question written by the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to two questions with written answer from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Rumen Georgiev; and Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Bisser Petkov, one question from the National Representative Anton Kutev; and one question with a written answer from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to two questions from the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Dimitar Georgiev; and Miglena Alexandrova; and to one question with a written answer from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krassimir Karakachanov to a question written by the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Boris Yachev; to a question from the MPs Ivelina Vassileva and Dimitar Boychev; and to three questions with written answer from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; Hasan Ademov; and Alexander Sabanov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva "To two questions from the MPs Miglena Alexandrova; and Ivo Hristov; and two questions with written answer from the MPs Polina Tsankova-Hristova; and Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister for Environment and Water Neno Dimov will not participate. For health reasons, the Minister of Health Nikolai Petrov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will not participate. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda for today, I am closing the plenary session. Tomorrow, regular plenary session at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
