ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-17.ana.ud829e42	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-17.ana.ud829e45	I will be allowed to present proposals for the reintroduction of the previous system for the treatment of the State budget by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-17.ana.ud829e50	The proposal put forward will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-17.ana.ud829e64	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-17.ana.ud829e80	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-17.ana.ud829e94	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 419]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-17.ana.ud829e102	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-17.ana.ud829e108	A vote shall be taken on the proposal of the representative for the Inge Wage on behalf of the Right, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelstingen on 5 November 1998: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for changes in teacher education with a view to establishing differentiated approaches to the stage, middle and early stages of education for the past 2 years.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-17.ana.ud829e124	A vote shall be taken on the proposal from the Inge Wage Committee on behalf of the Right, submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 5 November 1998: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a change in the qualifications of teachers in secondary school so that teachers who teach theoretical knowledge should have at least one year of professional immersion in the subject.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-17.ana.ud829e170	The presidency's position is that the proposal is not being discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-17.ana.ud829e173	I would suggest that this matter, Document No. 8:5, is sent to the Municipal Committee for normal consideration, and will briefly justify my proposal for a procedure. This case concerns the spatial plan of Stavanger Municipality, approved by the City Council on 29 September 1997. The plan has been drawn up in full agreement with the local government sector authorities. These have made their comments and approved the plan without any objections. The Ministry of the Environment has asked for changes. It is therefore a very important political principle, namely local autonomy. It should be such that if the local authorities want something, it can only be over-tested by a political body, that is, the Stortinget. This is a proposal put forward by representatives of the Labour Party, the Right and the Progressive Party, three representatives from Rogaland. Of course, I will not comment on the content of the proposal, but I think it would be relatively remarkable if the Stortinge were not to deal with such a proposal to look at it. I must also be allowed to mention that there are several ways in which the Stortinget takes a position on concrete proposals. There should be a most reassuring basis for the Storting when making decisions. Treatment of a difficult policy area is much better based on an attitude from a committee than, for example, from a committee. to adopt something to be put forward in the context of only a debate in the Chamber, be it an ordinary debate or an inter-pelling debate. There is no particular basis. The reasonable procedure should be for a case of this nature to be referred to a committee. I can't see that this is a big business either. On the contrary, according to the Constitution, the Storting has the task of controlling the executive, the Government, and I regard this as also part of this control of the government's work. I think it would be quite natural to send this matter to the municipal committee. I would recommend Stortinget not to be put on the sideline on these questions, but on the contrary support the proposal to send this Document No. The 8th proposal from the representatives of Jan Simonsen, Jan Johnsen and Tore Nordtun to the Municipal Committee of Storting for ordinary consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-17.ana.ud829e186	This is a kind of proposal that we've discussed many times before because it presents the Storting with a dilemma. On the one hand, the Storting should be careful to intervene in decisions taken by the Government in its field of competence. On the other hand, it is also important to exercise control over the way the Government uses its powers. From the Right side, we have previously stressed that we do not put ourselves on one or the other extreme in a fundamental consideration, and that we exercise caution, but that we reserve the right to exercise this control authority, which also Carl I. Hagen was in the house. That is why there will be a very concrete assessment of the matter before you. This matter, I think, is of such a nature that the Storting should be interested in it, and should take it to treatment just as long as we see here that the government's judgement has not been exercised in a way that we are satisfied with. I refer you to the interpellation debate that we had on this question a few weeks ago. On this basis, I would like to recommend support for the proposal that Mr Hagen has just made.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-17.ana.ud829e197	I will agree with the course of action to which the Presidency here refers. In an interview with Stavanger Aftenblad, Grand President Kirsti Kolle Grondahl says that she regards this matter as very clear and in principle important, and that she describes this as a big business. It is important to add, in addition to the elements highlighted by the representative Hagen, that the handling of this matter takes place on the basis of guidelines drawn up by the Stortinget. There is also an important point that there have been similar decisions to this in cases in districts other than those affected by this case. I give my full support to the scheme outlined here by the Presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-17.ana.ud829e206	When I asked for the floor, it was not primarily to agree with what Gunnar Kvassheim just said, but because I so far in the debate lack the Presidency's reasons for the decision taken. When we get a case of such a fundamental, great importance in the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy, and a unanimous presidency has disagreed that the matter is being dealt with, I think the time in the debate is now for us to hear the reasons of the Presidency. I feel that it is so far lacking in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-17.ana.ud829e211	It is not immediately easy to draw the conclusion in this case as it is now available. In principle, I would be very reluctant that the Storting should deal with matters of other authorities, and in general, I would say that where the Storting should exercise control of the administration, there are also more appropriate instruments than taking government decisions to deal with the Storing. However, I agree that in this particular case, there is a difficult case of doubt. I will therefore agree with the wish that the representative Jacobsen just had of a more fundamental reason from the Presidency. For my part and on behalf of the Labour Party, I would like to find it difficult to overdo what I understand here is about a unanimous attitude on the part of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-17.ana.ud829e216	In recent years we have had some cases of Document No. Eight proposals that have intervened in what you can say are the government's work force, and the Storting has reacted slightly differently to these. The Presidency – at least the majority of the Presidency – has, as far as possible, tried to keep a line on these issues, because it is the only way to have some consistency. And as it has also been said, most cases can also be traveled in other ways than through Document No. 8 proposals, so if you really have an urgent political case, there's always ways to do it. The fact that the Storting is going to intervene and oversee the Government in its jurisdiction when you don't like something that the Government has a responsibility for, in my opinion, is an indiscretion. The members of the Presidency had a somewhat different view of how to deal with similar matters during the previous period. A fairly similar case to this one we had a year ago in relation to Northernland, and it was similarly handled by the Presidency and was rejected in Stortinget. If you want to have a line in these matters, you almost have to decide how to deal with them, and in the Presidency we were not in doubt that in this case we should recommend that it was not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-17.ana.ud829e225	The President will add that it is daren to be known to Stortinget that in the case of Document No. Eight proposals, there have been differing views from time to time among the members of the Presidency on handling, and that it has led to disagreements in the Presidency, but it has been such that a majority of the Presidency has stood for the line that Grand President Kirsti Kolle Grondahl has just set out. In this particular case, there was an overall presidency which, after a number of assessments, found itself willing to support the fact that Document No 8 is not addressed in this context, but of course it is up to the Stortinget to decide the procedure. It will probably also be the case for Document No 8 proposals in the future, that there will be shared views in the Presidency on these, but in this very special case an overall presidency assessed it so that the matter should be rejected sent to the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-17.ana.ud829e230	It was an interesting post by Grand President Kolle Grondahl, which I understand in a way calls for a kind of principled attitude and a line in these questions. I want to mention that it has to be that there will always be different political judgement, and that you can't always just make a line. It depends on the political discretion exercised – that is why there are different political parties – and then it is difficult to establish a solid line for such proceedings. But I also interpreted Grand President Kolle Grondahl there that she thought it was a difficult balance, and that maybe you should look more at these things. It might have been interesting to ask the President-in-Office if it might be appropriate to send the whole matter of record back to the Presidency with the request to review it, and perhaps also on the basis of this case, to include a request to the Presidency to facilitate in an appropriate way a principle consideration of this. We've only had discussions on records. It could perhaps be useful if there were a position to clarify the Rules of Procedure or something like that in order to have a debate with a conclusion on these matters. I allow myself to address questions to Grand President Kolle Grondahl as to whether she thinks it might be an advantage to send this report back to the Presidency for a review of it, based on the debate that has now been in the Chamber. If she is willing to do so, of course I will withdraw my proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-17.ana.ud829e236	I do not think this matter is of such a nature that it should form the basis for any review of the treatment. I am on the contrary, as opposed to Mr. Hagen, concerned that the Storting should have a certain line in dealing with these matters. The reason why some doubts arise is that the Storting assesses matters that are relatively parallel, different from time to time. As Hagen quite rightly says, for political reasons, treatment is assessed a little differently. I am of the opinion that as President and Presidency we shall try to have a line in dealing with these issues, and that is why the Presidency, in relation to the big debates on these issues, may have seemed a little ‘directed’ and a little stiff in its assessments. But I think these questions are going to be completely impossible to deal with if we don't try to keep a certain direction and line. I think we should insist that tasks delegated by the Storting itself and determined to be the responsibility of the Government are the responsibility of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-17.ana.ud829e241	Several have not asked for the floor, and the President will then sum up the debate on the consideration of Document No. 8:5 as follows: There is a proposal from Mr. Carl I. Hagen to send the matter to the Municipal Committee. The presidency's attitude is that Document No. 8:5 is not proposed during treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-17.ana.ud829e253	The matter has therefore not been dealt with.
