ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e70	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odelstingen meeting in the evening – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e75	I suggest Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e80	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt is proposed as president. –Other proposals are not available, and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt is considered unanimously elected president of the evening meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e97	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 133]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e111	: I would first like to make a correction to the setting. On page 13 there is a reference to a proposal which is also expressed under B in the Committee's position on the decision. The proposal is listed as if the Right Party and the Workers' Party are behind it, but also the government parties are behind it – all except the Advance Party and SV are behind the proposal. The proposition now being presented is an aggregate proposition for changes in the law that are largely linked to changes in the social security system. Several of the proposals have been promoted in the context of the budget and with direct budgetary implications, while others relate to more regulatory adjustments and clarification of practices. The proposal also proposes a new system for regulating the medical market. Most of the proposed legislative changes give the Committee its unanimous support. In some areas, the Committee is divided or the majority do not share the Government’s views and ask for the proposal to be referred back for review. This is the case in the case of the Government's proposal for an intensified pension requirement. The government suggests that the intensification referred to here be implemented immediately – and not just for new cases –. It could have the effect of leaving behind, for example. This can be 50 to 55 years old today, and living on a survivor's pension, quite immediately their income can be reduced by about 50 to 55 years. NOK 25 000. The Committee notes that the proposal and its design have been discussed with the Rikstrygdeverket but that the issue has not been consulted. It shall be emphasised that the Committee shares the Government's view and intention to arrive at a design of the survivor's pension that stimulates self-sufficiency through its own work. However, the majority point out that the proposal promoted by the Government has a different design from that suggested by a majority of the Storting during the treatment of the welfare notification. Therefore, all lots, with the exception of SV and the Advance Party, are asked to consider different models, including: a scheme involving the age-grading or time-limiting of younger women. The majority now ask that such models be evaluated and that the case be sent to the hearing before it returns to Stortinget. The proposal to limit the transitional benefit to single dependants, as proposed by the Government, is in line with the work being done to make the economic and social conditions of married and cohabiting couples equal. But I think it's right to point out that there's a reduced sample that's going to go through this field in a whole way, and one should maybe be a little careful to keep taking care of bit by bit before the whole setting comes to treatment. There is a tendency for the restrictions to be made in the first place, while the benefits that spouses enjoy do not benefit the cohabitants at the same rate. Rules on support for spouses and families of those in the military are an example of this. But it is a majority, all but the Socialist Left Party, who support the Government's proposals in this context. However, the Labour Party has seen the need for exceptional provisions in order to protect the lone carers who have started a training course. As you know, the education aid for lonely caregivers is meant to be a help to self-help, and I think it would be a little wise if we now had rules that make it difficult for the individual to complete his education. For this reason, the Workers' Party proposes that exemptions be introduced for training aid in cases where single-parents enter a cohabitation in the middle of an educational course. Perhaps the most drastic change in popular security is the attack on the health insurance system. The Government proposes to raise the minimum level of entitlement to sickness benefits from 0.5 G to 1.25 G, and a majority, all except the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party, supports the Government's legislative amendment proposal. The Progress Party, even though they protest in large words, is also involved in weakening the labour rights of the weakest. By way of agreement, it will be decided to raise the income limit for sickness benefits. This will mean that approx. 200000 part-time workers and disabled persons may lose a basic employee’s right. Such a decision will further weaken part-time working women. Last year, many of them were deprived of their additional pensions and became minimum pensioners. This year, they are deprived of the right to sickness benefit. And in parallel with this deterioration, the Government introduces a cash support scheme and offers women who are at home with their children NOK 36 000 a year. Preliminary statements seem to confirm that there are many low-paid women who feel that saving costs for kindergarten while getting 36 000 kroner to be at home is provocative. At the same time, they are consistent losers in the development of welfare systems, only at a later stage in life. For example, the government's policy is that women who work in low-paid occupations, or who have part-time work through the social security system, are not given any particular leave for their work. One might say that the government is consistent in its quest to get women back to home, but this policy can put us back many years in gender equality work. And one has to ask questions about where the Center Party is in its defence of equality, and where they are in their defense of the sick pay system. Another comprehensive proposal is related to the amendment of the Hospital Act and the Municipal Health Service Act. The proposal for a new regime for the regulation of the medical market is based on a negotiated outcome where the Municipal Councils and the Medical Association have been the key actors. The proposal presented is supported by all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party. It is still the case that there are 800 – 900 vacancies in primary and specialised health services in the Norwegian health system. This, together with the introduction of demanding health reforms, will impose recruitment and distribution requirements, confirming the need for state regulation of the medical market. The majority are pleased that the parties appear to have arrived at a mutually agreed outcome that will help resolve key issues of distribution. The fact that the majority of the hearing bodies have given their assent also seems reassuring, and the majority of the Committee endorses the proposal submitted. As I said at the outset, there are many legislative changes that are presented in this proposition. Most of them have received unanimous agreement from the Committee. However, in my presentation I have also tried to show the points where the committee is divided, or not share the Government's view. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Workers' Party has promoted alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e137	Britt Hildeng has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e140	Ot. pp. No 4 deals with a number of different changes in the Law on Social Security and in some other laws, as represented by Hildeng. It was added to change in the employer's oden for sick pay. Fortunately, this was not the case because of the negotiations that the Progress Party and the Right had with the government parties. However, I feel the need to comment on this desire to shift costs more and more towards employers, and I hope that no such proposal will be made again at the next crossroads. The entire committee, except for the Workers' Party, does not wish to extend the employer's period of sick pay. Only the Workers' Party wants it, and then with one day. In the case of intensified requirements for the occupational activity of surviving spouses with survivors' pensions, an intensification was introduced by the Government in this area. Such intensification as it was provided for is something that the Advance Party finds unacceptable. This sharpening will not be applied in 1999. However, it is with respect to notifying not enough that the argument of a majority in the committee is merely that the matter should be referred back to the ministry and that it should be sent to the hearing before such a reduction is carried out. It is not surprising that the Labour Party and the Right are in favour of the tightening up of proposals, but it is very surprising that the government parties want such a change, and especially since the Christian People's Party and the Central Party voted in favour of the following proposals, together with the Progress Party and the Socialist Left, when dealing with the welfare message: «The Code of Inheritance of Supplementary Pension Rights remains unchanged so that the spouse continues to inherit 55 pst. of the total pension entitlements of the spouses. ‘... Based on what these parties stood for in the welfare announcement, I hope that the same parties still have this view. If such conversion is to be carried out, it must then only apply to those who are starting their earnings today. In conclusion, I must be allowed to ask what is the background to this total turnaround by the parties of the Centre and the other government in this matter. Have you taken a new position that it makes sense to introduce this tightening, or are there simply economic reasons behind it?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e158	Nearly 1.5 million people received social benefits from popular unrest last year. The schemes must be kept under constant review in relation to the objectives and needs which may be changed. In Ot.prp. No 4 there are some adjustments that will both simplify administratively and seem fairer. For a long time it has been unfair for a single caregiver living alone with the children to have the same social benefits as those living in a stable cohabitation. And why should couples living in stable cohabitation have special advantages over those who have married? The Christian People's Party is pleased that this discrimination is now over and supports the fact that social welfare schemes only apply to dependents who are responsible for the children alone. Some criticisms have been made that the requirement for minimum income for entitlement to sickness benefits is raised from 50 pst. to 125 pst. of the basic amount. This will affect some part-time employees, who are mostly women. However, it is important to clarify that no one will lose the right to sick pay during the period of work. It will also contribute to some harmonisation of the rules in relation to the day-to-day arrangements. At the same time, I do not fully understand the argument from the Workers' Party, which is always talking about women having to go into paid work. This is, of course, an incentive for employers to create larger labour fractions, so that as much as possible can make enough sense to become self-employed. In the future, the payment of social security shall be made through a bank account. The Committee stresses that this should be voluntary and that other forms of payment should be possible. I expect that more and more older people will become comfortable with electronic transmission, which can make 50 million. kr per year. The Government has reinforced the requirement for expected professional activity for surviving spouses with survivors' pensions or transitional benefits from social security if they are under 55 years of age. In dealing with the welfare notification, the Right Party and the Workers' Party wanted an assessment of age upgrading or time limitation. The government believes that this can produce unfortunate results that do not take into account the individual’s living and working conditions. The Christian People's Party sees the need for the proposal that a survivor should be expected to obtain a 2G labour income, to be sent to the hearing, and supports the re-promotion of the case after a consultation round. The proposition also contains a change in the law to ensure a better distribution of doctors in our country. At the end of 1997, there were 190 unaccompanied positions in the municipal health service and over 650 in the hospital sector. If Norway had not reduced the study places in the 1980s, we would have had enough doctors today. In the fall, 580 medical students have started their studies. They're hardly going to be unemployed, with the efforts we've started in psychiatry and cancer care. The proposal provides for stronger government governance by providing the Ministry each year with an overall framework for the number of medical and contractual positions to be established. The health regions make the further distribution of the individual specialists. The distribution to municipalities will be given directly through certain criteria such as population and geography. The scheme replaces current regulation through the medical distribution agreement and the job structure agreement. The permanent scheme shall be established in 2001. And for everyone to get an offer to join a general practitioner with a public contract, it is important to regulate the medical market so that the whole country for a real offer. The Christian People's Party supports the recruitment project set up to get doctors from abroad to Norway. We also support the use of financial incentives so that the most vulnerable municipalities get more stable medical coverage. There will be no fixed medical system when you still have to deal with many temporary workers. The Christian People's Party has noticed that several of the hearing bodies want sanctions in the event of infringements of the established framework. We will evaluate the scheme before any financial penalties are allowed. We have dealt with the last health and social budget for this century earlier today. It is with great satisfaction that I see that the Government is trying to settle all the injustices of World War II. The Jews have been compensated for assets taken from them during the war this year. Today, war pensioners are finally getting the highest pension base, whether they were war participants, war sailors or captives. A selection will look at the replacement of war children – those born during the war with a German father. Many of these have had a bad growth. It's about money, but it's mostly about respect for individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e184	I have followed the debate earlier today. There is a proposal in this case that makes me so upset that I want to take the floor. It is the proposal to abolish the minimum grounds for entitlement to sickness benefits, a proposal that I understand that the government parties are trying to make harmless in their posts. It's a proposal that has a very bad social profile. It's a little district friendly, and it's -- I want to use the word that the Council of State wouldn't make up for today's -- female hostile. It's a fact that most women work part-time. As stated in this case, approx. 200000 workers lose their entitlement to sickness benefits when this proposal is adopted. Most of these are women in part-time work who combine work and social security, or work and care. In District Norway, many women work part-time in all occupations. The reason is often that not all jobs are available in small municipalities. In the trade and office, in the cleaning industry and in the care sector, many women work part-time. Almost all health and social institutions have based their tours on fractions. We are totally dependent on many jobs being part-time, even though we could ideally wish for more full-time jobs. We must inspire women to work – also in part-time – either in combination with social security or in combination with care. In the care sector, there is a growing need for labour. Some people want to work part-time for a few years because they have small children. It should be in line with the government's family policy. As the representative Britt Hildeng said in his statement: this proposal is a step backwards, especially for women. In the Workers' Party, we are very concerned about the consequences of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e195	I can state that most of the Government's proposals have been approved by the Committee. I want to comment on a few points. Expenditure on social and health activities in the population in 1999 is estimated at DKK 141.9 billion. There is particular reason to look at the costs of sick pay and disability pensions. In 1999, they total 45.6 billion dollars. That's an increase from 1997 to $8.1 billion. In spite of paychecks and other so - called natural explanations, there are many in this country who struggle between work and illness. In the debate on the budget, I have underlined the measures taken by the Government in connection with this. Let me just say that it has been important for the Government to take forward the main lines of today's sick pay scheme, which provides full pay compensation from the first day of illness. Budgetary work for 1999 has been particularly demanding. The proposal would involve an unusually large contraction, NOK 9 billion. This means that the legislation on sick pay and other regular schemes in the public sector are also subject to a particular critical assessment. The minimum income base for entitlement to sickness benefits is 50 pst. of the basic amount, while the corresponding basis for daily allowances is 125 pst. The reason given by the Labour Party for changing the daily allowance base from 3⁄4 G to 11⁄4 or to an average income over three years of 1G was that the current minimum limit, i.e. the one that was at that time, could not be said to contribute significantly to the employee's self-sufficiency. And we've chosen the same foundation, that's an approximation to a change that's been made before, after the recommendation from the Working Party, when it comes to day money. With this proposal, the cost of sickness benefits can be limited without substantially interfering with the sickness scheme. The minimum income requirement for sickness benefit and day-to-day pay schemes will come at approximately the same level. But let me stress that during the employer's period, there is no rule on minimum income. It seemed strange to me that the representative Britt Hildeng compared a change in the basis of sickness benefit with the increase in the minimum pension that occurred from 1 May 1998. There was quite a large group there that later on would be called minimum pensioners, but it's a fact that very many of those who had small supplementary pensions, got an increase in their supplementary pension, and that no one got less paid. The majority of the Committee endorses the proposal to limit the social security scheme for single people-backers. A single mother or a father living in a conjugal relationship who has been in at least 12 of the last 18 months shall not be entitled to transitional benefit on the basis of the proposal. The representatives of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left propose a rule that educational support can still be provided to persons who, during education, are deprived of the right to other social benefits provided on a voluntary basis. I mean, the most neat thing is that the arrangement applies to everyone from the same time. This is the responsibility of both equal treatment and administrative care. The government will focus on the end of the school year when the change takes effect. So a few words about the proposal to intensify demands for expected professional activity for surviving spouses with survivors' pensions after transitional social assistance from the populace. This proposal fulfills the welfare message's intentions with regard to greater requirements for self-employment through self-employment. The majority of the Committee points out that the proposal does not imply any age-age and/or time-limit for younger participants, such as the majority of the Social Committee, when the Labour Party and the Right wished to be treated in the welfare notification. Ageing and time-limiting can produce bad results. Medieval and elderly women may have very different job opportunities, and younger women may have different care burdens. A transition to age-grading or time-limiting at fixed rates can therefore lead to a less flexible system than today. I'm basically skeptical about a conversion to a time-limited system. The majority note in the vote that the proposal has a different device than that expressed by the majority in Stortinget in the context of the treatment of the welfare message. That's right. The proposal in the proposition is more moderate. The objective is to tighten up current practices. At the request of the majority, which is behind the proposal for a more extensive change, I will follow up with sending the matter to the audience and bringing back a new case for Stortinget later. I would also like to mention the proposal on the method of payment of benefits from the people's rights. The Committee agrees with the inclusion of a rule in public awareness of the way in which performances are to be paid. The Committee asks the Ministry to include an exceptional rule in the regulation. This rule shall apply to people who cannot find it negligent and practical to receive payment into a bank account. I understand that it is right to make exceptions in specific cases, and will apply to a regulation that replaces it. Finally, let me express my joy at the support of a consensual committee to the proposal to wind up the lowest pension base in the war retirement. This means that three-quarters of the war pension list will increase their pension by approximately. NOK 10 000. However, the most important thing about this issue is to correct old wrongs and meet expectations. Both the League of War Damage, the Advance Party and many individuals have taken up this matter. I am pleased that today's decision has clearly seen a sentence in a matter that is now urgent to be settled.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e225	Governments mentioned war pensioners, and SV are also very pleased that the lowest pension base is now being abolished. This matter has been dealt with in the Social Committee earlier with the background in a Document No. Eight proposals from the Progress Party, and then received support from the SV and the Right, but not from the majority. Now you get this in place, and that's good. Gunn Olsen mentioned, and Britt Hildeng has been involved in the same thing, that one is upset at the rise of the minimum income base from 50 to 125 pst. of the basic amount, and SV has the exact same reaction. As has been said by several here, this hits quite a lot, and especially women, in a very unfortunate way. The argument that you get some kind of discrimination from those who go on a day-to-day basis could have turned your head around and said that you might be able to do something in relation to the day-to-day pay system. But what you're doing is reducing income or living conditions to a previously disadvantaged group. I record that we are upset here with the Workers' Party, but SV is upset with varying minorities in other matters as well, but I have to change partners from case to case and stand alone in terms of the social welfare scheme for single dependants. It's really outrageous to see that now you're changing the rules in such a way as we saw in the state budget today, that the transitional aid as a consequence of it is cut by 20 million. kr. You get a cut in babysitting for 30 million. kr. Changes in the rules on transitional benefits are now also having consequences in relation to education aid. The government itself has said in its comments that this is a group, even though it is heterogeneous, that very many live on the smallest corps and have it difficult. So this is a group that needs to be supported in order to get better, says the majority of the Social Committee, and despite that, this kind of change is being made. It is clear that cohabitants cannot initially be treated as married, even when they have lived in 12 of the last 18 months. For many people it will be that you have special children from maybe two different marriages or previous relationships, and to be based on the fact that the one you are living with can have a care obligation for your own children, can give quite an unreasonable result. The fact that a relationship that has a significantly longer duration can be treated as a marriage matter is a matter for itself. But that's what SV thinks is not valid here. Luckily, the survivor's pension is not to be dealt with here, so the case is to be returned. Here we're upset with the Progress Party. It is clear that the rules of the game are changed when it is initially expected to have pension rights attached to a spouse who then falls off, and then proposals are made for changes to these rules that create uncertainty for the remaining one. In the case of the other matters that I have not come up with here, there is an overall committee behind them, so I do not have any special comments for them. But I would like to say again in the case of the social welfare schemes for lonely dependants, that in many ways it is shameful. Hjallis has said in a different context, that it's not possible to go to zero, and it's of course going to apply to single dependants. I hope that this development will not continue.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e242	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2 [[Fotation, see page 134]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e256	I will say a few words as the case rapporteur on the Odelstinget case now. The amendments to the Food Oversight Act, etc. and the law on quality control of fish and fishery products, etc. have a close connection with a matter The Stortinget will deal with later this week. I'm thinking about St. pp. No 6 for 1998-99 concerning the amendments to Annex I to the EEA Agreement. The amendments to Annex I to the EEA Agreement are the main reasons for most proposed amendments to the two mentioned laws. In addition, the amendments are justified by the follow-up to existing EEA obligations, the follow-up to decisions taken by the Stortinget in connection with the notification by St. No 40 for 1996-97 and the need for the creation of what is called editorial errors. The Committee has addressed these legislative changes which help to avoid a major debate on the amendments to Annex I to the EEA Agreement in connection with these legislative amendments. That is why, in its recommendation, the Committee: ‘The Committee points out that there are several views on the issue of Norway on the part of Stortinget to approve the proposed amendments to Annex I to the EEA Agreement. To this end, the Committee takes on board the above mentioned amendments the clear reservation that the Ministry must present a new draft law of 19 May 1933 No. 3 on the supervision of foodstuffs, etc. if the Storting during the treatment of St. pp. [[1998-99]] No 6 were not to approve the amendments to Annex I to the EEA Agreement. The Committee would not rule out that several of the amendments should nevertheless be implemented, but would like to reconsider if such a situation occurs. Furthermore, the Committee considers that if the Stortinget approves the amendments to Annex I to the EEA Agreement, the proposed amendments to the Law of 19 May 1933 No. 3 on the supervision of foodstuffs, etc. reasonable and necessary. ‘... As regards the amendments to the Quality Control of Fish and Fish Products Act, the Committee states: «Where the Committee also has no comments on the proposed amendments to the Law of 28 May 1959 No. 12 on quality control of fish and fishery products, etc. this is based on the same reservations as given above. ‘... The reservation is therefore linked to the examination by the Storting of the amendments to Annex I to the EEA Agreement. With this, I should have explained why the committee's attitude is structured as it is. This should also explain why the Committee’s position is unanimous despite the disagreement that actually exists in relation to the amendments to Annex I to the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e280	The changes to the laws that we are invited to adopt today are based on the treatment of the veterinary agreement that SV opposes. We want to keep the border control. In addition, we also want to strengthen the control of food. We'll come back to that on Thursday. Treating the legislative amendments before the matter is settled is a bit unfortunate. We understand the reason, but we think it's unfortunate in a matter as important and controversial as this is. It should have been possible to take things in the right order. But we're going to come back to the main content of this on Thursday, but because SV is not on the committee, I need to say a few sentences about it. This is about concrete legislative proposals that are now to be considered. SV will support the legislative amendments, but we have to say that we are very uncertain whether it is sufficient if the veterinary agreement is to be adopted because a risk analysis has not been carried out specifically in a situation of increased imports. Notwithstanding decisions on the veterinary agreement, there will be a need to strengthen controls. Monitoring of food quality in Norway is not good enough as it is today, and therefore some of these changes are good. This is important not only in order to ensure the responsibility of the authorities for health but also in order to have as low a level as possible for infection, e.g.: in relation to Norwegian agriculture, in order to develop it in a direction we want to pursue in the future, and to take care of it. If it's going to develop positively, you have to make sure it's cleaner and you develop it ecologically. If the veterinary agreement is adopted, the possibilities for doing so will be much smaller, because the spread of infection is almost impossible to get rid of and may require measures that are inconvenient to ecology. In our view, border controls have an important function and can hardly be replaced. The legal provisions that we are now invited to adopt, which are intended to make it possible to carry out a check on them, may prove to be inadequate. The compensatory measures to prevent increased infection, as proposed, are relevant but are insecure and deficient. In particular, the practice of the law will depend on the availability of adequate means to enable the provisions to be actively and effectively applied. The pre-goods principle must provide a high level of control of products, an active use of co-determination and a continuous assessment of the need for new legal provisions to ensure food quality and safety. SV expects that the costs of a new regime to replace border controls will be much higher than what we have been presented to date, and we expect those who want this new regime, which no one has really claimed is an improvement in its own seas, feel a great responsibility and also take responsibility for following this up financially with sufficient resources.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e293	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Before the Odelstinget progresses, the President will recall that the regulatory time for the evening meeting is now over, but the President proposes that this meeting continue until the current map is completed. [[See page 139]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e309	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 142]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e323	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Progress Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Socialist Left 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the People's Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e332	Ot. pp. No 83 for 1997-98 on amendments to the Military Nethering Act is mainly a follow-up to the St.meld. No 22 for 1995-96. In that communication, there was an overall review of civil service. There was a review of the content of the service, of the teaching offer, of the length of the service and of the treatment procedures for the application for civil service. And the treatment in Stortinget followed up the message and well saw it. Several amendments and reforms were adopted. Some of those changes require legislative changes, and they are the ones proposed in this proposition. In addition, there are some changes to close loopholes that show that some young people who are under protection are exploiting to escape all protection obligations, both military and civil. There is an important fundamental and practical change proposed, namely the liquidation of the police hearing. The majority of the Committee is in favour of such liquidation and it has already started through the introduction of a simplified standard hearing. As in the position of the notification, the minority, namely the Right Party and the Advance Party, opposes this change, but the majority sees that the system of police interrogations does not work as intended, as it has been now and is today. There will be no real testing of the conviction, which was the purpose of the hearing. We see that there are different practices from police districts to police districts in how the hearing is conducted. We see that in some places, there are only known questions that people in the environment know in advance, and that you pre-apply answers to, answers that should contain the right words to be believed in. We also have examples that there has been an unacceptable tone from the interviewer. In addition, it is also of fundamental concern that the police should be involved when such an application is promoted by a person seeking civil service obligations. In addition, we know that a lot of resources are spent on these interrogations. There's a lot of time going on for paperwork, and police officers get tied up. And the police have more sensible tasks to do. So with the new system, we get a self-declaration that the applicant for civil service signs. Of course, it is also possible to obtain additional information if it is necessary when the self-declaration reaches the military department. Such information may also be obtained on oral questions, but – to be emphasised – it is the exception that it should occur. As a general rule, the self-declaration shall be designed in such a way that the necessary information is provided through a written form of processing. Then the Swedish Civil Protection Agency will grant the applications it finds to grant, and the refusal goes on to the Civil Service Administrations. There is once again a point that the Right Party and the Advance Party oppose. They believe that civil service administrations should not be involved in this decision-making process. Any appeal after that goes to the Ministry of Justice. So that means that it's the Justice Department that's going to be the new appeal board, and that's why we get a lot fewer cases to the courts, which is the only appeal board today. The need to automatically refer rejection cases to the courts thus disappears. This will only happen when the applicant himself wants to make use of that possibility. This will, of course, lead to great savings for the courts, for the prosecutor, for the Ministry of Justice and for the police. It is the effect of this new arrangement that we should also know to value. For the sake of order, I would like to stress that, of course, these are the same conditions that must be met in order to be transferred to civil service. The conditions under which the applicant is informed in writing, and he must sign that he actually fulfils those conditions, possibly with the addition of his own comments. It does not imply any change in the requirements for a transfer to a civil service obligation. There is no major opening for transfer from military protection to the civilian. The system will also bring us into line with other Nordic countries and Austria and Germany, which have already, some of them for some time and some recently, introduced this system. When these countries introduced the scheme, we saw that there was a certain increase in the number of applications, before it fell again and stabilised on average at a slightly higher level than had previously been. It may be difficult to analyze why this happened. It may, of course, be related to the introduction of another treatment system, but there may also be factors from outside that are difficult to analyse — what has happened elsewhere in society in international policy. Nevertheless, the majority say that we must have a safety valve for possible undesirable consequences of such a change. We say that if this change leads to ‘so extraordinarily large an increase in the number of applications that there is reason to believe that the stated conviction is not real’ — yes, the Ministry may consider the introduction of mandatory oral explanation in addition to the self-declaration and also consider extending the term of service. But we say that the Storting should be briefed on such changes, so that we can thus give our view of the changes. Of course, it will also always be an opportunity through a change of law to go back to police questioning. Since the police are out of the picture with the mechanism to be adopted by the majority, it is also not natural for the police to be responsible for the notification of the decision on the application to the applicant. Now it becomes a purely administrative decision, and the treatment and service of it should therefore also be followed. Evidence that the decision has been reached until the guardian can be ensured, for example: through the recommended letter. An overall committee therefore maintains the original proposal of the Ministry of Justice that the police should leave the picture on service, which they therefore agreed to in the consultation proposal but do not promote in the proposal. We have a general duty to protect all young men in the country, but unfortunately not all look at it with equal joy. Even though there are no statistics on it, people who sit and deal with these matters believe that there are those who are trying to avoid the duty of protection, both military and civil. This is unacceptable. That's why it's important that we close the loopholes that make it possible to misuse the system. An example is that there may be a return to military service after civil service obligations have been granted, as well as commuting between the various protection obligations before entering into the obligation of protection. That way you get constant delays, maybe until the duty of service actually falls away. It is therefore proposed to close the possibility of repatriation to the military position. But a whole committee thinks it's too strict, and maybe even suspicious. Young men may actually change their mind — entering a new phase in life, getting new types of recognition and yet wanting to defend the country with weapons in hand. Then they also have to have the opportunity to do that. To this end, the Committee opens up the possibility of a reversal, but only after the civil service obligation has been served. Thus it will be open to those who really change their mind, while it will be uninteresting to those who seek back to try to escape everything. Another option for the unskilled is to apply for community service after the military convocation has arrived, or immediately after the military service has begun, so as to withdraw the application before the decision on the civil service application has been taken, and to return and revisit this round. It is possible today because an immediate diplomacy is obtained by making such an application. The proposal therefore proposes that we should not have an automatic immediate graduation but that the applicant should remain in the service for up to four weeks while the application is being processed. This supports the majority, but we assume that there is a system that has been assessed in relation to human rights. I assume that the Council of State can confirm this today that it is. And we emphasize that there must be a quick handling of the applications, they must have priority in the system. The four-week limit is going to be an absolute limit, but you have to try to make it even shorter. In addition — and most importantly — during the four weeks in which the applicant is in service, the service must be rendered in a manner that does not conflict with his convictions. Here you have to take individual considerations into account. Once again, the minority at the Right and Advance Party break out and say that it should not be a diplomat, but the four-week deadline for treatment should not apply either. In addition, the majority advocates a clean-up of the legal text in respect of the terms ‘civil service obligation’ and ‘civil protection obligation’. It is the same theme that we had in the Stortingen earlier today, as mentioned in the letter from the Ombudsman, but we referred to the debate here in Odelstinget. Today the concepts of each other are used in the legal text. During the examination of the notification of civil service obligations, the bulk of GDP was proposed in the Netherlands. S. No 177 for 1995-96 a new point of use. It says, among other things.: Civil service is part of the general obligation of protection. This was the final confirmation that defending the country with weapons or without weapons is two equivalent, equal ways to defend our country. The country needs both defence methods, and this is said, of course, without compromising the need for the military defence we have. This reform has had two consequences, which are also mentioned in the communication and in its suspension, namely the roll-out of all civil servants, and thus the obligation to be prepared in the event of a crisis, conflict or war, and also the risk of being called for repetition exercises to the extent deemed appropriate. The second consequence is that the content of the civil service should also be of real protection or that it should be of peacekeeping nature or that it should be of conflict prevention nature. It is quite clear here that there is still some work to be done before we have been able to provide all the service providers with relevant content in relation to the place they currently have in their total defence. The same majority – the Labour Party and the Christian People’s Party – believe that this two-and-a-half-year-old reform should also be reflected in the use of concepts in the legal text and in the instructions of the Ombudsman for civil servants, while the minority, who also opposed the reform last, still stand firm in their view, and do not want such a clean-up in the use of concepts.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e368	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e371	This is a day of joy – or a night of joy – for the military in our country and a similar little pleasant day for those who look at the defense of the country in its traditional form. I will try to clarify a few things in relation to the case rapporteur. She allows for a review of the case if this has undesirable effects in that sense, it must be understood that there will be a disproportionate increase in the number that will seek military denial. I would like to refer to the proposition on page 11, where reference is made to the situation in Austria. It says: With the introduction of self-declaration, the number of applicants increased from between 2000 and 4000, as it had been for 16 years, ‘to a place between 12,000 and 14,000 applications, i.e. at least one triple’. I would like to ask the rapporteur: is there this level that is needed to reconsider the matter in Norway? I can also mention that already now, with the expectation that this will be implemented, there is an increase of 40 pst. of 1998. So a little thing finally. In the setting of St.meld. No 22 for 1995-96, the majority of the Workers' Party, Christian People's Party and SV say: ‘The protection of the country may take many different forms. The concept of protection must cover more than the traditional militaristic definition. ‘... I repeat the word "military". Is it the opinion of the rapporteur that serving the military duty of protection in Norway is ‘military’?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e387	What is important in this case is that we have a system that ensures that all young men who have a deep and real conviction that it would be contrary to their fundamental values to enter and earn a military duty of protection and undertake to stand at the disposal of the Norwegian military defence in the event of a possible crisis/war situation have an alternative to go to. We have to do that because we are a civilised state of law, but we also have to do that because we have committed ourselves to it under the Human Rights Convention, which we have signed up to. I think we should have known how to ensure that group gives something back, and that we use the resources of these young men, that they are trained for protective work. In terms of numbers, I think it's hard to start going into them. Here, an overall assessment of what is believed to be the real reasons for the increase – if it is believed that there is real conviction on the basis – and of the needs of the defence at the stage. We see today that one third of the annual coals do not carry out any protective duty at all, neither civil nor military. That's what I think maybe I should worry about both one and the other a little bit more. What comes from the fact that there are so many who get graduated from first-time service for various, different reasons? In the case of militaristic defence, to which the representative here referred, I must admit that I do not fully understand that there may be anything controversial about it. It's clear that if you go into the service of first-time protection in the military, there's a militaristic defense training there.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e398	I think it was a useful clarification. I find it very difficult to imagine that the representative Ane Sofie Tömrös is not aware of and will not take on board the meaning in which it is generally attached to the word ‘military’. That it is possible for members of the National Assembly in Norway to write that word into a position in our country and as late as militaristics are nothing but military, I find almost impossible to believe. I have to assume that despite the fact that I now refer to it, and she confirms that this is the case, it is meant to produce Norway, the Norwegian defence, as a militaristic unit. I put in that word what I think most people do. In addition, it was not possible to get an answer to my specific question. The number of committees must have added to the comment that if the increase is too large, you will have to come back to the matter again. I'm saying 40 pst. increase that we have now had only by the possibility and probability that this will come, obviously not too much, or so much that it leads to some reassessment of the positions. I referred to the increase in Austria, which ranged from 2 000 to 4 000 applications in a 16-year period to 12 000 to 14 000 after the introduction of the self-declaration. I want to hear it again: I understand that 40 pst. Is it too small, but is a three-four-double enough?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e405	It was a sentence from an adventure that just now ran into my mind. It may not be so parliamentary to say it, but it is: Cut, cut, said the bitch. I cannot do anything but refer to what is in the setting about this, and what I said in my post, namely, that if, after the introduction of a self-declaration, there would be such an extraordinary increase in the number of applications that there is reason to believe that the stated belief is not real, then you should consider the different measures that I referred to, and the Storting must then be given information about such changes in an appropriate way. That's what the majority suggests if the increase is so large that there's reason to believe that there are people among the applicants who really don't have reason to be transferred to the civil protection obligation. The representative indicated that 40 pst. obviously not enough. I haven't said that at all, because I think it's impossible to figure out. We have to see what's the real thing, and what's added to it. Something more numerical fixing than that is not possible to do. Making sure that those who actually have a conviction that they cannot enter the military are given an alternative protection-relevant service, we are obliged to do so under the Human Rights Convention, regardless of the increase in the number. But then, of course, it's very important that we make the analysis, that we're sure that those who are granted their application have a real conviction, and that we have a system that can verify and try it in a real way. That's what we're trying to achieve with the changes that are being made here today. Unfortunately, the Progress Party and the Right will not support it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e414	That quote of adventure may be accepted in this Chamber, the President will mean. No more lines have been requested.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e419	I would like to make it clear that the Progress Party does not wish to introduce a self-declaration system for exemption from military service, which means that the applicants only sign a self-declaration stating that the conditions for exemption from the law are fulfilled. We disagree with the value-neutral attitude of the government parties towards these important principles. In this way, the unlucky impression is created that military protection and civil service are equivalent and equivalent. We will underline the fundamental difference between defending their country, if necessary with weapons in hand, with life as a mission, and other community service. I want to refer to Innst. S. No 177 for 1995-96, where the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right, inter alia, pronunciation: ‘These members believe that the obligation to protect their country of origin, if necessary by military means, is such a fundamental obligation for a citizen of society as to go a long way before an exemption should be granted. These members therefore believe that the argument that the procedure takes a long time and that it is economically resource-intensive in this context cannot be given decisive importance. ‘... In addition, the Party considers that eliminating the situation of police interrogation actually increases the risk of obtaining unjustified applications for military service exemption. It's also in the proposition. Today’s police interrogation system should continue until any proposal for a better system is presented. They haven't been presented. We see that there may be a need to find a less resource-intensive way of dealing with exemption requests, but we believe that this must be done in a different way than to wind up a system that involves a real test of the convictions of the exemption applicants. So far, the Ministry has made no provision for solutions other than self-declaration. The Progress Party and the Right will therefore promote a separate proposal that is just about to come up with. I refer to page 3 of the setting. The proposal concerns Section 2 without having to quote directly – it becomes too long. Furthermore, the Progress Party agrees that the first instance should be added to regional protection departments with legal remedies to the Ministry of Justice and that individual teams must bring proceedings before the courts. It'll seem less bureaucratic. However, we do not see the need for the Civil Service Administration to take part in the proceedings and believe that all decisions at first instance should be taken by the Civil Service Departments, even if they are rejected. Some guardians wonder that applications for exemptions will take a long time, especially when cases are brought before the courts. And we have a bunch of examples of that. The Contracting Party agrees that if the self-declaration system is to be introduced, the law should be amended as proposed by the Ministry, namely that a military service is not initially suspended or can be expelled from the military while the matter is under consideration. However, unlike the Ministry, we do not want to set a maximum time limit for the four-week procedure. We also do not want to apply for immediate termination, where the applicant has been refused and then brings the case to the courts. Military service may be provided without, for example, having to use weapons during the course of proceedings. That continued service in that case would mean no undue detection for him, should not be present. Together with the Right, we will also propose amendments to Section 9. With the two amendments I have now referred to, I take up the minority proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e437	The representative has drawn up the proposals he made.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e441	The suspension we are considering today is about changes in the processing of applications for military service waivers for reasons of persuasion. So there are procedures we're talking about, and not changing the terms of what's going to be good enough grounds for exemption. The first striking change is to introduce a self-declaration form instead of having to meet for police interrogation. In the Christian People's Party, we believe that young people who do not want to do military duty do not need to be placed in a booth with those who are being examined by the police because they are considered to be possible criminals. That is why we believe it is a major step forward when we now introduce a different procedure where the police are kept out. This isn't an inexperienced experiment, either. Both in Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Austria, it is usually sufficient for the applicant to make a declaration that he is unable to perform military service without conflicting with his serious convictions. In Germany, too, the decision is normally taken on the basis of a written application. Why should we change the system we have followed in Norway for a long time? I have mentioned one reason in relation to the applicant's feeling of being suspicious. Secondly, oral explanations often provide little guidance as to the seriousness and substance of the conviction of the guardian. Thirdly, the current procedure for dealing with individual applications is resource-intensive and time-consuming. Are we now introducing the self-declaration form to facilitate exemption from military service? No, no, no. The form will need to be designed to enable applicants who fulfil the conditions of the law to have their applications implemented and others not to be transferred. The self-declaration itself will be sufficient in most cases. However, where further information is deemed necessary by the body of the decision, the applicant may be required to meet in person with the decision-making bodies. This should be a certainty that there will be no dramatic change in the direction that anyone can release the military for reasons of convenience. We do not ignore that in a transitional phase there may be a certain increase in the number of exemption applications. If this will continue for a longer period, it would then be natural to consider whether to go back to the system of police interrogations. What will be the future procedure for assessing the grounds for exemption? Regional protection departments are given the competence to grant waiver applications. The applications which the departments are unable to grant, proceed as far as possible to the civil service administration as the first instance, with the effective right to apply to the Ministry of Justice. If the Ministry of Justice rejects the application, the person liable may, on his own initiative, have the administrative decision tried before the courts. Everyone knows that there are those who will try to take advantage of the opportunity to escape the security service, both civil service and military service. The Christian People's Party believes that the present attitude points to the possibilities that could be exploited to avoid the statutory duty of protection, and the precautions taken to prevent this. This is what the rapporteur has done in a transparent way, which also covers the views of the Christian People's Party. We point out, together with a majority, that applicants for a transfer to civil service must be able to discharge their duty of protection even during the processing period in a manner that will not conflict with the applicant's convictions. We do not believe that the person should or must be removed from the military context, but that the service should be organised in such a way as to safeguard his integrity. There is nothing inferior to serving their duty of protection through civil service. Because even if one does not want to use weapons to protect or secure peace, service is in conflict prevention, in peacekeeping and social work to the highest extent serving his country and his people. We just have to make sure that the conditions are set in order for this to happen. It is therefore natural that civil and military protection obligations are equivalent. This must also be expressed through the use of the word in the law, as proposed in the second legislative decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e464	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e467	On request, the rapporteur stated that, in her opinion, there was no difference between the adjective ‘military’ and the adjective ‘military’. It is a rather remarkable form of language feeling in my ears, so I would like to hear if the representative Marthinsen also shares the view that the two adjectives mean the same thing. I noticed that the representative, Mr Marthinsen, used the same expression as the rapporteur on the matter, namely that civil service and military protection are equal. I have personally understood the Basic Law's provision on general protection until then that we have an obligation for all persons of male gender in this country to serve military defence protection. But there is a right of reservation on the basis of conscience. I find it very difficult to understand how this right of reservation can be made an equivalent alternative to the express provision of the Constitution. That's why I want to ask the representative Marthinen what he's adding in this expression, that there are similar alternatives. One last question: The representative Marthinsen stated that there would be something criminalizing in assigning the police tasks of the kind they have had up to today. Then I have to ask how it relates that the majority in the committee position says that if there is a significant increase in the number of applicants, it may be right, in the majority's view, to go back to the system of police interrogations in the event of a change in law. Will it no longer be criminalizing?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e478	To me, the terms military and militaristic have some content other than that clearly expressed by the representative of Ane Sofie Tömrås. The right of reservation, says the representative, Wohnning, has to state that there is some kind of inferior alternative you go into, because it's the primary one that's the actual military service with the use of weapons. I believe that when the law of exemption from military service for reasons of conviction of 19 March 1965 speaks of guardians and causes them in two directions, namely military service and civil service, it is an expression that one does not want to put a stamp on any people who choose another way of serving their service for the country, a stamp called inferior. I think it's much more serious with all those who evade military service because they think of a whole lot of things or are able to create excuses that qualify for a total exemption. The representative on the payroll asked what I was adding to the ‘criminalisation’ of the persons to be interrogated by the police. I'm adding that normally the police are investigating and investigating people in context with what's related to crime facts. When it comes to the guardians being investigated, it feels emotionally criminalized.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e489	When I hear Mr Marthinsen's explanation of the purpose of the new establishment, I ask myself the question: What in all the world's kingdom can it come from the fact that – as far as I know – a quite unambiguous reaction among the defence personnel is going in the opposite direction of what the representative Marthinsen is trying to give the impression of? After all, the reaction of the defence team is very strong. They feel deeply harassing that the concept of protection for which they have had the right of reservation and which has had clear content as long as we have had a military defence of this country is now to be equated, even conceptually, with what was in its time called military denial. It is right, as the representative Marthinsen says – at least I don't have any other opinion about it – that there is nothing inferior to serving the service as military nectar. No – but can it not be very inferior to earn it as a soldier? As the representative of Wohnning stated instead: the normal concept of Norwegian law is to do military service, and then a rule of exception has been introduced, which many people have now highlighted, because we are not going to break the Human Rights Convention. We all agree on this. We want people to follow their conscience, but there must be no doubt about what is the first choice. So finally, I am pleased that the representative Marthinsen understands what'military' means. I want to ask him if he wants to distance himself from what his party was in the St.meld setting. No 22 for 1995-96.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e500	Yes, it may well be that the representative, Hernæs, has an overview of the reaction of the defence team, which, according to the statements, is unambiguous in the matter of equalising civil protection obligations with military protection obligations. I have not asked the defense what they thought about this. I've been thinking for myself. It's not stupid that more people do, so that they form an opinion, not based on what others might think about it, but based on what you think about it, experience and mean. Then I was also asked by the representative here next, if it is inferior to being a soldier, and if not the normal situation. Of course, being a soldier is not inferior. That is also – quite right – the normal situation. I myself have served my duty of protection, and have no reason to look back at it with discomfort. On the contrary, it cost me in a field performance perhaps less than for those who have had to labor in another way, but still: I think it was a service that was valuable. I have even received a letter saying that Norway thanks me for the effort. That doesn't mean I'm not usable anymore, but it also creates some feelings. The first election, I noted as a keynote. Yes, it's clear that initially there's a general protection obligation, and then we're thinking basically of military service. [[The President clubs.]] I'm sorry I can't finish.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e511	I don't want us to talk past each other, but I had the feeling that this was exactly what happened in the representative Marthinsen's reply to me instead, when he interpreted me there to think that civil service is inferior to serving military protection. I didn't say that, and of course I didn't mean that either. But what I find difficult to understand is how what the representative Marthinsen himself characterises as the normal situation, and what he himself characterises as the exception, can be as equal. Because, after normal language usage, normal situations and exceptions are not equal. We are in a Norwegian legislative tradition facing an exact parallel with regard to the right to refuse military service, to the provision we have for health professionals in the abortion law, which allows us to reserve the right to participate in abortion if it is contrary to his conscience. I assume that the representative Marthinsen does not believe that it would be inferior to make use of that reservation right, and how would it be inferior to make use of the same reservation right in the protective duty legislation? I find that hard to understand. Then I must be allowed to repeat my question, because I did not get an answer to it: if the representative Marthinsen believes that it is reprehensible for reasons of principle that the police should have a task in this context, how can he himself be a member of the majority who has written into the vote that if there were to be a significant increase in the number of applicants, you would go back to a system of police interrogation? It must be as reprehensible as it is now, if it is objectionable first.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e520	Let me start with the last one first. I have not said and not written that police interrogation is reprehensible, but we believe that the system it is now being added to is a better system, because it removes some of the things that I have described as a sense of suspicion in those who are being examined. But if the result is that we get overwhelming amounts of applications with a desire for a waiver, and that this seems to be the result of having a ‘simplifyer and easier way’ to be exempted from military service, yes, then I am willing to go back and evaluate the original arrangement that we have per. today. But I think – until the opposite is proven – that the arrangement we are now putting up with is a better one. So to this that goes on community service, that it shouldn't be inferior. I am pleased that the representative of the Wage Group underlines this. At least we agree on that. Then he asked me a question about this with equality. I could maybe instead of the expression equivalency used the expression, in the sense that what you do is a service for country and people, and for that reason it is something that is both a sacrifice for the one who does it, in the same way that it is for the one who deserves military protection, and an effort that the country is happy to receive.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e529	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e532	I will be allowed to stay a little while because the representative Marthinsen has thought for himself. The representative himself has a profession outside this room where the movement of a layman has a certain pasture. I do not believe, however, that it is recommending the introduction of a defensive law-enforcement movement. Even with an attempt at a benevolent interpretation, I can understand nothing other than that his rejection of the military reactions must be a rather gross downgrading of the professional competence that exists in our military defence. For everyone who sees a self-esteem in the defense of our country, this harvest has been no good time. It began with that the government, after very energetic argumenting for the need for a shooting and training field in the East, concluded that we should not have such a shooting field anyway. Secondly, we received the draft budget from the Government, presented only three months after the Government's own long-term budget, a budget which, in a very devastating way, broke down under the intentions of the long-term message. Now, through the budgetary agreement that the Right Party and the Advance Party were able to achieve, something that can be lived with in dire need. When I express it that way, it's because it's a prerequisite for me saying that we can live with it, that this is an exceptional year in terms of strangling the appropriations for the defense. There is a promise that this will not happen for another year. But the experience we have from the previous long-term announcement, where we are located somewhere between 7 billion and 8 billion dollars below what was also the premises, makes me take a never-ending reservation. With regard to the two issues we are discussing today, first of all one that we have already voted on in the Storting, a letter from the Ombudsman for Civil Service Officers concerning the change of the concepts of civil duty to civil protection obligations and now in Odelstingen this law of exemption from military service for reasons of persuasion is being attacked by the concept itself and thus the identity of the Defence. First, the crews are deprived of time and effective training, then the budgets are cut, and then the identity of the Defence and Defence crews is attacked. This cannot be done better if the intention is to make the situation as difficult as possible for the defence of our country. The obligation to protect the country is governed by the Constitution § 109. There is little doubt that this concept has been thought of and reserved for military protection by the legislation that has been brought down over time. That is precisely the reason why exemptions from military service have been granted the designation of civil service obligations for reasons of conviction and that there is an exception. The serious reason for believing that military service was to be released has so far been based on competent questioning by the police. It cannot be seen as anything but an attempt to legitimise military denial beyond what has been practice so far, when the majority of the population now go in to abolish the police hearing and introduce a self-declaration. Military denial shall be harmless and normalised. It requires little imagination to imagine that an active group of military negates will produce standard responses that meet the conditions for exemption. The representative of Marthinsen may be familiar with the type of standard forms for the promulgation of the State Church. Furthermore, the Ministry proposes to introduce a mechanism which excludes the Ministry of First Instance from giving the Swedish Defence Agency the power to grant applications, with the Civil Service Administration as the first Board of Appeal and the Ministry of Justice as the third Board of Appeal. On the right, we see this as a red tape and recommend decision-making powers to the Swedish Defence Agency with the right to appeal to the Ministry of Justice. When the Armed Forces' claimed terms are attacked from multiple sides, the Right cannot be involved in this. Together with the Progress Party, we will underline as much as we can, that there is a fundamental difference between defending the country with weapons in hand, with the risk of his own life, and doing other community service, if it is isolated, never so important. That we in this society are so humane and have the respect for the reasons of belief that we have that opportunity is a completely different matter and a matter of course for the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e551	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e555	The representative Hernæs said that for those who see the self-value of a defense, it is a sad harvest. With that he insinuates that I and the Workers' Party do not see it, and I actually feel a little offended about it. We are not going to reopen the debate on the Ministry of Defence's budget, but I can only refer to what the Labour Party actually stood for there, and I can also refer to which parties it was that made a compromise with some government parties that wanted to cut a lot more, and that ended up with a result that was worse than the Workers' Party wanted regarding the Ministry of Defence's budget. And then the representative goes on to say that this is nothing more than 'to legitimize military denial'. It's even much more than legitimizing military denial! What we did two and a half years ago, and which we are now following through the conceptual changes, is to say that we have a total defense in this country, where some young men – most – choose to defend with arms in hand, while some young men – a small group – choose to do that defense without arms in hand, choose to put respect for human dignity and refuse to kill over it to decorate and accept orders to do it. And then the representative here next says that he refers to those who want to defend the country with their lives as efforts. There are no military negotiators who say that they don't want to defend the country with their lives as efforts, but what they say is that they don't want to defend the country by killing others and by taking the lives of other people. And there's a significant difference, which the representative herenæs should look to bring with him.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e566	Yes, it's about raising the vocal cord and increasing the excitement when the arguments are bad. I repeat what I said – that this has been a bad harvest for friends of Defense. I'm actually glad that Ane Sofie Tömrås is offended by that. I take that as a good sign, because insults most often express the idea that you might be wrong. There we are boundless open in the Right. We have great room for doubters and for those who had to repent of their sins. We still haven't pressed the buttons here tonight. The representative Timber Rush continues to refer to this famous message from two and a half years back that I have quoted from a few times. I maintain that she has not made any attempt to nuance herself in relation to the language confusion that obviously exists. I also want to add that the concept of total defence in Norway is far beyond both military protection and civil service, which I still prefer to call it. It's a concept that takes people of old who go beyond the age when you usually earn this service. So Ane Sofie Timberås says that she demands respect – that may not be the word she used, but I understood it this way – because there are some people who do not want to “kill others”. Again I also react quite strongly. Using the term ‘killing others’ in relation to the job that Norwegian society can in certain circumstances impose on young Norwegians is once again an expression that language confusion is quite obviously total, if there are no other intentions behind using the type of stigmatizing words that the most serious command society can give its youth.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e575	It seems to me that the representative Hernæs is using suspicion as a deliberate strategy, and I don't think that's fair play. He's trying in a way to need meaning nuances out to the extreme, so that one necessarily has to take a position on the extreme opposite wing. And that's not necessary. The representative Hernæs also says that there are situations where you can accept that people have grounds of conscience and can earn their protection from the country in another way – he does not use the term "must protect," but I put it into it. I think it's unfair to use suspicion as a strategy. The minority also writes that they disagree with the value-neutral attitude of the government parties. It is with respect to make a statement that I would like to make. What does the representative here put in this with the value-neutral attitude to the defence? I have another question to ask. The representative Hernæs referred to standard forms for the Church's discharge. What about all those who use every opportunity to get a military exemption? What does the representative Hernæs do with them?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e584	To the last one, what I'm doing to those who are unjustly trying to avoid military service is very good. If it can be detected, it is a police matter, with the reactions that should result – if it is not too demeaning for the poor to be accused by the police, of course! ‘Mustification’, says the representative, my dear colleague from the Justice Committee. It is completely unnecessary to pursue suspicion. You could say what you want about the majority, but what the majority writes is completely clarifying. It will equate, introduce the same concept and make what the Defense people themselves perceive as going under the skin of their beings. If the representative Marthinsen does not have contact with the defense in addition to the service he has clearly served for a few years ago, I strongly recommend him to make such contact. We are dealing with the matter here in the Committee on Legal Affairs, but it is one of the fundamentals of the defence's activities. I would like to communicate a contact, if it is the need for contact that is most prominent here. In addition, he says that the representative hereafter also admits that there may be other ways of earning this duty, and at the same time he uses the word ‘suspecting’. As if there were a bunch of doubts from my side or from the Right that we admit people's right not to serve normal military service for reasons of conviction! That's what I call tonight's so far the greatest suspicion, and it's been used in several posts here during the evening. It should be clear what the reason is, because it can hardly be that you are not aware of the Right's position in relation to that possibility.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e595	If it really was that Hernæs had such great concern for the defence's resource situation that he pointed out in his reply to me instead, the jam should be seen more in the Workers' Party's alternative budget than in the government's parties. So until the mentioned word in the setting of the two-year-old message, which was the only representative hereafter, was able to find out to attack us who want a conceptual change. There he has taken one sentence out of context. But if you read the whole section, I don't understand how it's possible to suspect or put anything else into the term militaristic, than what it says there. Int. S. No In fact, 177 for 1995-96 reads: ‘The protection of the country may take many different forms. The concept of protection must cover more than the traditional militaristic definition. It must embrace both preventive peacekeeping and national protection without arms in a war or crisis situation alongside military defence. Such an extended definition of protection might also lead to fewer total negotiators. ‘... That's what it says. The only majority at the time tried to say, was that we now define our entire total defense as a defense, and not just the military part that defends the country with arms in hand. So I hope there won't be any more trouble for the representative. Otherwise, I'm surprised by how, through his argumentation, he somehow denies all the resistance that so many thousands of people have faced when we've actually had a crisis and war situation. Look at World War II. Look at the enormous resistance that was then made from many thousand people, not least from the women, who were just about a resistance struggle without weapons in hand. Wouldn't it have been an advantage if we had put the kind of resistance in the system, in organized forms, had the training and clearly defined tasks in advance, so that we could use anyone who wanted to defend the country, including those who wouldn't do it with guns in hand?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e609	With regard to the purpose of the defense of our country and the experience of the war years, obviously Ane Sofie Tömrås and I have quite different perceptions of reality. The purpose of the defense and taking care of it is to prevent the situation we got because the Labour Party governments had undermined the defence in the 1920s and 1930s. That's the situation, the similarities there, that now frighten us, and that scares those who are concerned about the woes of the Defence. With the utmost respect for those people who had to do incredibly important and dangerous work during the war, I would have seen it as much more valuable if they could carry on with the work that I am convinced they had a better opportunity and a higher desire to do. So Ane Sofie Tömerås talks about the Right Honour for the Defense. Yes, now I'm not going to hold her responsible for what Marthinsen said in his previous post, but if there's anything left in this debate, there's a total suspicion of the Right's views. How can anyone be in doubt as to the right of defence through the budget proposals we have had? We've consistently followed up what we've promised over the years, ear to ear. Then, as the last resort, we've reached some compromise, which hasn't done quite bad – a little better than it would otherwise have been. So to the claim that I was able to find this one word in the 1995-96 position. I could read the page up and down from that setting if there had been more reason for that. The attitude is a start on what we see as the preliminary end of today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e618	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e621	Unlike heresy and right, which are unhappy today, SV is quite satisfied. Because when the majority of the Judicial Committee is now in favour of replacing the police hearing of those seeking exemption from military service with a system of self-declaration, we in SV see it as a continuation of the Stortinget's decision when civil service obligations were dealt with in 1996. But we also see it as a victory for our work for civil service, or civil protection – after it has been cleared up in the concepts – to be treated as military protection obligations, as the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party have also done in this position, which has been the subject of a rather lively debate today. We support the setting with some exceptions, which I will explain. In our view, there are fundamental reasons why the police hearing should be abolished. There is a consequence of the fact that civil and military protection obligations are effectively equivalent. A police interrogation is often linked to an investigation of criminal acts. And the fact makes it possible that some have not applied for exemptions for reasons of conviction. Thus, applications for community service are not criminal, whether the Progress Party believes that ‘military denial and pacifism should be less well-considered in Norway’, as they write. Then, too, the oral questioning is practiced differently from the police chamber to the police chamber, as others have been involved in the debate. Furthermore, it's a fact that not everyone is as good at wording without saying anything about the seriousness of the beliefs. In our view, a self-notification system will ensure a fairer treatment of applicants. In addition, it is seaworthy, as others have experienced, both practical and economic reasons for a new procedure. It actually gives the police and courts more time to do what's supposed to be the most important task for them, that's to do something about crime. And I'm surprised that the Right Party and the Advance Party don't see it the same way. So to our suggestions, which relate to sections 2 and 9. The Committee stops a rice behind the mirror if it appears that the self-notification system leads to a sharp increase in the number of applications for exemption. To this it is said that there is no clear experience from the rest of the world that would indicate a sharp increase in the number of applications for exemption. On the other hand, we have seen that there are international events and situations where there has been a major political debate that has had a major impact on the number of applications for exemptions. During the Gulf War, the number of applications increased sharply, as was the case with NATO's Double Decision in 1982. But if this change leads to the department suggesting 10-20 pst. increase, it will only be significant if it leads to a deterioration in military defence in particular, or the total defence or protection in general. There's no reason to believe that it will. In Section 2, we therefore propose a change which means that we do not accept that the decision-making bodies can accept routine oral explanations from all applicants, or that one has the opportunity to go back to the police hearing. Nor can SV accept that the service period can be considered extended, cf. Our proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox We do not think that the Committee's proposals are entirely reasonable, especially given that a large proportion of the male population do not at all carry out any service obligations, as others have been here. So it's also saying that SV is in principle in favour of equal terms of duty for civil and military protection. The amendments to Section 9 to which the Committee is in favour mean that those seeking exemption immediately before or after the commencement of service may be withheld for up to four weeks. That's a change SV can't be on. We want to keep up with today's system of automatic graduation. It is unreasonable for persons who have applied for a waiver for reasons of conscience and serious beliefs to be able to be held back. We doubt briefly that it is in line with the human rights, the sea of the majority never assumes that this has been assessed. Nor can we see that the defence has some very good benefit from a person who has applied for an exemption and applied for a civil service. I'm dealing with the proposals that are distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e652	Ågot Valle has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e657	I would like to thank Mr Ågot Valle for a very clear statement. She confirms exactly what I have said today, that this has been a sad day for the defense: she says even she is happy. In a better way, it is absolutely impossible to emphasize how evil this is for the defense of our country. You can say a lot about SV, even a lot of good things – we even sometimes come up with suggestions. But saying that SV has distinguished itself as some warm friend of Defense, so that their certificate indicates that this is a good order in terms of everything that has to do with Defence, I think you have to be very loving to get to. I hope it's a cross of thought for the other parties. It was SV's great glan number for many years that in everything that was involved in defence, security and foreign policy, SV stood alone against the rest of the Stortinget. So I hope that the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are satisfied that they have now received a happy Ågot Valle after we have introduced these new concepts into our defense. Then I have to be allowed to make a little correction in the end. The right has not been in writing, nor has it been said that it is less well-meaning to do community service than to do general defence service. But I have recorded that the oral understanding has not been the best today. I also find that even what is entered in the settings can be misunderstood in a relatively basic way. But like I said, we haven't said that. And to comfort even more: we think it's not a particularly elegant way of expressing something that we don't quite agree with either. Of course, the way you serve, the exact same reputation when you've gone through the procedures that we think are right.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e667	First, I would like to say how pleased I am that the Right does not, in fact, regard it as less well-considered to serve civil protection obligations, if that is what the representative meant. I'm sorry, but it's a little late at night, and you might be a little tired in your head. So I was a little bit in doubt whether this was a line to SV or a line to the other parties. I just want to take the opportunity once again to say that we see the defence of the country as many, many areas. Not least, we are committed to defending what needs to be defended, and that is among other things. environment and nature, and we also see that it is necessary to have civil guardians to take care of those tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e674	I am interested in the varying reasons that emerge from the majority regarding the need to change today's system and move on to a self-declaration. The representative, Valle, explained that not everyone is equally good at wording by oral questioning. That's definitely true. But as you know, not everyone who is equally good at completing forms either. So it's a little difficult to see how to avoid that problem by switching from an oral interrogation situation to a standard form that requires the ability to write. I also noticed that the representative, Valle, pointed out that it does not matter how many people would have to make use of any self-declaration and apply for a waiver, SV would accept it anyway. If I understood correctly, some sort of justification for that from her side was the reference to having a significant increase in the number of applications during the Gulf War and in the context of NATO's double decision. It would be interesting if the representative Valle would elaborate on his interpretation of this. Is it so to understand that the conviction of conscience is something that arises in very special situations, and what does it tell in the case of the seriousness of the conviction of conscience?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e681	SV has not been in the committee during the examination and has therefore not been in all the comments. Now it is not that we will accept any application for exemption. We share the Committee's view that, in case of doubt, it must be possible to identify better grounds, that the grounds for exemption can simply be rejected. That's where we're with the committee. Then it must be quite obvious that in times where there have been major discussions around the defence, and major discussions about the fact that we have a defence that means that we should also be able to leave our natural defence area to defend, for example. U.S. or other country's richer interests, it must also be acceptable that there will be justifications that sort of clarify things for people, even for people who are going into the defense. It is quite natural that at such times, during such debates, there will be an increase in the number of applications. It's also shown. And of course, it's also true that not everyone can write as well – that's quite clear. But we still believe that having a self-communication system will be a fairer system that treats everyone equally.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e690	The representative Valle's answer to my question about the situational conscience tempts me to pursue the question a little further. We have seen in the autumn that a majority of SV's downgrading team have rightly considered that Norwegian air force forces are being made available for possible bombing in Kosovo. Is there also of the situations that the representative Valle rightly believes should lead to an increase in the number of applications for military service waivers and, in the case of SV, should it be accomplices?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e697	There is no doubt that there have also been different opinions in SV about the situation that was in the harvest. That's all I want to say about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e702	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e705	On behalf of the Left, which is still not a member of the Judicial Committee, I will be allowed to endorse the main features of the position of the majority of the Judicial Committee. For the Left, it has always been important to emphasise respect for those who, for various reasons of conviction, have felt that military service is wrong. And I want to highlight – and it's a little bit in relation to a comment from the Right and some posts from the Right here in the Chamber today – that as far as I understand, the main point of the conviction is that almost everyone doesn't want to live, that's not the question of the will or the duty to put their own life as the effort that's the point for those who refuse ordinary military service. So I'd like to say that I've never doubted the right will. But it's a little unclear to me why it has to be so that when – as Bjørn Hernæs hopefully is right – this is a joyous day for those who want to carry out civil protection obligations, it has to be the opposite for those of us who perceive military defence as an important part of society, and an important part of the defence of Norway. It's actually impossible for me to be able to see any contradiction here, that this could be a joyous day for those who want to perform military protection, would necessitate that it was the opposite for us others. I also get to say that if you were to make Ågot Valle happy, I don't see it as a big problem either – it can be in itself a nice man who should be able to allow himself. With regard to the terminology ‘civil duty’ versus ‘civil duty’, we will therefore support ‘civil duty’, even in the sense that, as far as I am aware, most who refuse military service are of the opinion that they just want to carry out a non-military protection obligation. With regard to the proposal for a direct transition from military initial service to civil protection, the Left supports the proposal as it stands in the committee position. But I can say that there's a question where I might have been in some doubt, because it's not in itself hard to see that there might be some counter-representation from the applicant in question. That's the one. But there is also another point: that these four weeks – which hopefully will not be full four weeks – will necessarily have to be a period when neither the military first-time service nor the civil first-time service will be particularly effective for the person in this situation. With regard to the changes in the process system, I would like to support what I experience as a good division of competences between the Swedish Defence Agency, the Civil Service Administrations and the Ministry of Justice. I would also like to support the change in the involvement of the courts here, and in this context, I would like to highlight in particular what is stated in the proposal, and remind you that the rule on legal aid does not change. In other words, the State will continue to cover the costs of such judicial proceedings. On one point, I would like to inform you that the Left will vote differently from the majority. This is the one point on opening access for routine interrogation. The left will therefore vote against the change to the fifth paragraph of Section 2. To the extent that it is also a question of obtaining other information about the applicant, I will assume that the application form is transparent and shows which other changes you would like to make. In the end, as far as this is concerned, as I saw as a kind of rice behind the mirror, namely the question of possibly increasing the length of service for civil protection obligations, I assume that it will not be done without the Stortinget first being asked about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e731	In principle, it would be unnecessary to say something more from the Labour Party after the representative Ane Sofie Tömrås has made his contribution, but after hearing today's debate and especially the Jørn Stang of the Advance Party and Røres Bjørn Hernæs, I find it necessary to make some comments. The representative, Bjørn Hernæs, used expressions such as that the views and motives of the Right were suspicious. I would say rather on the contrary, I feel that the representative Hernæs almost suspects the Labour Party and the majority by suggesting that the conversion could almost have disastrous consequences for the Norwegian defence. One could almost believe it was about the existence of the defense, and the case gets a dimension that in no way matches what it really is about. The Labour Party has no intention of weakening its defence capabilities. No reduction of defence is desirable on the part of the Workers' Party. What should perhaps concern the representative here next is the large number in each year's coal that would actually go into service, but that does not perform any kind of service, that is, one third of them. With regard to the other elements he himself mentioned, such as the field of fire in the East and the original draft budget for the central government, I agree with him that there is more cause for concern than what this matter is really about. The Labour Party also does not want to abuse the scheme, and we know that when applying for a community service, the majority say that there should be no automatic termination, as it is today, if the applicant has already met for service. And if he has not met for service, he must enter into some kind of service and be not exempted, and there is a requirement for four weeks of treatment. It has to be affordable, and then it is also important for you to be able to have a quick procedure. With regard to the self-declaration, it is primarily a change of practice today, and it is worth noting that both the police and the Ministry of Defence are in favour of the proposed scheme. If necessary, even after the conversion we are doing, more information may be required from the applicant, one may call the applicant to the decision-making body, and one may have the security network that has been set up, where one may introduce oral explanations in addition, and where an alternative also actually mentions any extension of the civil guardian's term of service, and one may even go into an opportunity, if necessary, to return to the present system. So the sum total is nothing but a more practical way of implementing the process in line with the arrangements that one now has. has in our neighbouring country.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e748	In the proposal under discussion today, the Government proposes inter alia: to amend the processing procedures for applications for military service waivers, as set out in the Military Retention Act. The mandatory police hearing in military negotiators is proposed as replaced by a system of self-declaration. The individual applicant may be exempted from military service by signing a declaration of compliance with the conditions of the law for exemption. In other words, the proposal does not change the conditions for exemption from military service. The background to the proposal is that the hearing often provides little guidance as to the seriousness and substance of the opinion of the data subject. In addition, the procedures are resource-intensive and take disproportionately long time. By moving to a self-declaration system, the legislation will comply with the other Nordic legislation in this field. Legislation is part of the follow-up of St.meld. No 22 for 1995-96, on civil service obligations. The majority of the Judicial Committee endorsed the Government's proposal to remove the police interrogation in military negotiators. In its proposal, the Government has argued that civil guardians cannot return to military service. However, the Judicial Committee has proposed a rule that return to military position may take place on condition that civil first-time civil service is carried out. I believe that this proposal will also safeguard the Government's intention, namely to curb abuse of the law's exemption system. In the nomination, the Committee requests a wider review of the rules applicable to the submission of a request for exemption following the call for military service. The Committee has also asked for a review of national legislation in other countries and an overview of the requirements resulting from international standards in this field. I will come back to Stortinget with a detailed explanation of this. In this regard, I would like to make a careful reference to the review of the legal provisions of Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Austria and Germany by the proposal. In the meantime, I have learned that in France, Italy and Spain there is no access to applying for a transfer to civil service while serving the military service. The concepts of civil duty and civil protection are used in each other until the current military law of 19 March 1965. It can also be mentioned that the current military law replaced the law on compulsory civil servants. For the treatment of St.meld. No 22, On civil service obligations, Stortinget concluded that civil service is part of the general obligation of protection. The fact that the majority of the Judicial Committee is now proposing a uniform use of the term in the law means that Storting's proceedings will continue naturally in this respect. In response to a specific question from the representative, Mr Tmärås, I can confirm that a detention in the military position in unarmed service for up to four weeks in the ministry has been considered to comply with the requirements of the Human Rights Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e765	The fact that we have, and always have, a military defence in Norway does not make the Norwegian society a militaristic society. It should be unnecessary to draw attention to it, but after today's debate it is obviously necessary. On 9 December this year, our country's newspaper wrote on the position of the Judicial Committee: ‘The Committee has also decided that civil service should now be called a civil protection obligation. In our opinion, this is an unnecessary change of name. We understand that the intention is to stress that this type of service is also a duty of protection, but we think it is important to stress that these two services are not equal. The possibility of civil service is a necessary emergency exit, but it is important to stress that this cannot be equated with a military defence of the country. ‘... I agree with the leader of our country, and would assume that if he had heard tonight's debate, he might have reinforced the characteristic that this is an unnecessary proposal. It's also a very serious confusing and also a confused proposal. It is quite clear through the debate and the way in which the majority itself describes its position that the position is obviously self-contradictory. It's said repeatedly that it's about equivalent, equivalent options, in a way that can only be seen as two optional exercises where you're free to choose the one that suits you best. The next moment you say that one is the normal situation and the other is the exception. It is often highlighted in today's social debate as particularly favorable that you are able to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. But it assumes that it's possible to reconcile the two thoughts with each other. These two thoughts are not possible to reconcile with each other. It is quite essential that we maintain what has been the whole support of the tradition in Norway in this area so far, namely that the National Assembly is in its good right to decide that we have a duty-based military defence in that country and that all male citizens have a duty to participate in this defence. Acceptance of the fact that receiving arms training is so intrusive as to the individual's conscience's belief that society grants a legal reservation right does not imply, in any sense, that it is an equal option. And I'm seriously afraid that the National Assembly by this way of saying it actually is leading the underprivileged people behind the light and creating a rather unnecessary confusion about what is official Norwegian policy. It is often the case that one concept confusion brings the other. We have heard several times in tonight's debate that the word total defence is also used in a fragmented new way, as if it were the sum of military service and civil service. If this was true, half of Norway's population is excluded from the total defense, i.e. all women. It's a rather pointless use of the term total defense, and I can't help but understand that this use is the blank thoughtlessness. Of course, overall defence means that in a given situation, all that is done by civic and social work is part of the nation’s defence. It was just supposed to be missing. Finally, I have never before been away in that a political majority proposing a new regime, at the same time taking reservations about its own proposal. What you actually say on the part of the majority in the vote is that you want to introduce a new and simpler procedure. At the same time, you say that if this turns out to be too successful, you're going to go back to the old one. If it were to prove that this meant a significant increase in the number of applications for military service waivers, one would go back to a system that is said to be fundamentally reprehensible and which is the whole reason for proposing a new regime. I cannot, with my best will, understand anything but the fact that all the proposals by the majority have been tabled are a step backwards, because it places people quite unnecessarily ambiguity in vital areas of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e783	If the President understood Inge Wohnning correctly, he referred to the proposals of the Government and the Committee of the Regions as a confused proposal. For its part, the President will assume that such an expression is inappropriate. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e789	It was Jan Petter Rasmussen's visit to me that means I have to make a few comments. He began to hold this discussion of suspicion. There can be no doubt that the Right's position on this matter has been suspected – and we on our side should have done the same, so that there has been some kind of zero sum play of a little – we should say – childish character. I am a party to the matter, but it is absolutely impossible for me to understand that it is, because suspicion means trying to present things differently from what they are. On the right, I sincerely hope that the bulk of the population has understood that the Right is serious and deeply and sincerely concerned about the development of our country's defence. Of course, I agree – that's why I also drew all these three elements – that for strong words on one of the elements in isolation one should be a little careful to draw long-range conclusions on the basis of. But the sum of the defence budget, the attitude to the field of fire and this attack on the very concepts of the defense, makes me worried that we are in a situation similar to one we have been exposed to in this country before, in an earlier period. I agree that in principle, the Workers' Party has been a member of the Defence and has done a good job, along with most others. But without it being suspicious, it must be allowed to point out the fact that in the previous period of ageing we received a budget deficit of NOK 7-8 billion in relation to the Workers' Party's own long-term message. Now that we feel that we're going to do it right away, it's not suspicion – it's the sincere opinion that we're worried about this. Otherwise, I guess we've done most of the work. I just stated that none of the parties that agreed to write the setting in connection with St.meld. 22 two and a half years ago, has found it appropriate to distance themselves from what their committee members wrote in that time, that the Norwegian defense was militaristic. I take note of that and have to state, without I can well be accused of it having something to do with suspicion, that there is a word that the majority of people see as covering the defence in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e798	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 142]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e812	: No one has asked for the word. [[Footing, see page 146]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e826	I'm gonna be very short. I just want to explain a few different views the Progress Party has in this setting. We believe that the Government's proposal that the Credit Authority may impose a suspension of business if the supervision assumes that it is being operated illegally becomes a bit light, because today's regime that the cessation of illegal activities requires the decision-making of the civil courts that the activity is actually illegal has an important legal security aspect that disappears with the Government's proposals. If the credit supervision is wrong and thus impose a suspension of a legitimate business because of the presumption of illegality, we get illegal statuses with a credit supervision as a judicial authority, where the right to conduct business can be revoked without evidence. The Progress Party therefore considers that the defendant is deprived of one of his rights, namely the right to defend himself. It is, however, considered that any suspension of activities should not be exempted from judicial review, but this is a process which may take a very long time. And once the proposal is formulated in such a way that a decision to stop illegal activities for reasonable reasons, which subsequently turns out to be wrong, does not trigger liability on an objective basis, it will in practice be of little help to the victim. Therefore, the Progress Party will vote against the proposal for new Section 4(a) of the Credit Supervision Act. We will further vote against the proposals to amend Section 2-2, second paragraph, No. 7 in the Financial Activities Act and against the amendment of point (a) of the first paragraph of Section 5 of the State Bank Investment Fund Act – this is because the State should not be subject to exceptions other than private actors in relation to the ownership of financial institutions. The Party of Progress, and in so far as the Right too, considers that the sale of the State’s holdings is correct and necessary, and therefore sees no reason to extend the exemption from the rules on ownership restriction. Otherwise, the Party of Progress shall conclude with the other proposals contained in the Proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e839	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 146]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e853	The main impression concerning Ot.prp. No 75 for 1997-98, on the law on audit and auditors – the law on auditors – is that the Ministry of Finance has done a good and thorough job and that proposals are presented in the proposal which can be substantially adopted as they exist. But on some essential points, the government has suffered defeat – I will come back to it under the individual points. I also assume that the individual parties themselves present their minority proposals. The draft law is based on the Audit Board's investigation set out in NOU 1997:9 and the eighth Company Directive, which is a consequence of the EEA Agreement, is also incorporated. In some respects, the Government's proposal goes beyond the minimum requirements imposed by the Eighth Company Directive, inter alia. extended qualification requirements for auditors to audit annual accounts of so-called large undertakings. The Committee agrees that two categories of auditors, registered and authorised by the State, remain to be continued. On the other hand, the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Right, the Working Party, the Advance Party and the SV, disagree with the continuation of the legal separation between registered and state-authorised auditors and propose the termination of this division. The proposal proposes to extend existing legal differences concerning the duties of registered and state-authorised auditors, respectively. The Ministry considers that the obligation to have the annual accounts audited by the State-authorised auditor should apply to large undertakings, as defined in the proposal for a new accounting law, § 1-5, cf. Section 2-2, first paragraph of the draft law. The majority of the Committee disagree with the maintenance of the existing legal separation and will not, at all, extend it as proposed by the Ministry. In concrete terms, the requirement that public limited-liability companies – ASA – listed entities, including issuers of master certificates or debt securities, as well as undertakings having a specific socio-economic or market significance, shall be obliged to hold a State-authorised auditor. In the Legal Committee's Special Note No. 18, on which the sample leader is involved, there are several strong arguments to the effect that the artificial separation is not continued. Several of the hearing bodies express the same view. Oslo Børs supports the proposal on requirements for state-authorised auditors in certain undertakings. They consider it important that both the company and the auditor have the highest competence to deal with complex accounting conditions in the undertakings concerned. The majority of the committee, all outside the centre parties, is of the opinion that differences between auditors do not necessarily go along the axis of the State-authorised auditor — registered auditor, but rather between groups of auditors depending on practice and acquired competence. Thus, a registered auditor of a larger company will be able to have better knowledge of issues in larger companies than a state-authorised auditor in a smaller environment. In practice, the market does not distinguish between registered and state-authorised auditors, but between large and small audit firms. Large companies with complex accounting conditions will naturally choose an audit firm with a large audit profession and highly developed peak competence. Furthermore, there are no other substantive requirements for auditing for large than for small companies. Both categories of auditors are subject to the same strict professional ethics rules and the auditing standards used are the same for both categories. The credit supervision that the supervisory authority also imposes the same requirements. The Committee, like the industry itself, presupposes that the continuing training requirement is laid down equally for both categories, which implies that the highest quality control and continuing training requirements are applied. Furthermore, the majority of the Committee is of the opinion that there may be circumstances in which specific audit powers are required in relation to listed companies. However, if such requirements are to be made, this should be attributed to Oslo Stock Exchange. The majority of the Committee is of the opinion that such requirements may be laid down in the Stock Exchange Regulation and not in this Act. When the legal separation is now lifted, the requirement for state-authorised auditors in special sectors or for special forms of organisation, as set out in specific legislation, should be amended. In a letter dated 4 November of this year, the Ministry indicated to the Committee that most of the laws requiring State-authorised auditors cover different areas and involve several departments. Therefore, in the view of the Ministry of Finance, no amendments should be adopted until further consideration has been given to this matter. Therefore, there are no changes to the specific laws now, but it is assumed that the Government will return to the case when this has been investigated. In addition, the Government proposes that, when carrying out advice, the statutory auditor should be able to document the nature, scope and any recommendation of the assignment. This implies something significant new in relation to the rules in force. It is not difficult to understand authorities’ need for access to documentation, including: as part of the fight against financial crime. On the other hand, the Committee has difficulties in understanding that all correspondence relating to advice is to be included in numbered letters. The proposal, as it stands from the Government, is not, in the Committee's view, appropriate. Often, this is the case — for example, in the case of the sale of businesses, restructurings, etc. – the need for confidential discussions between the auditor and the client. Often, the selected auditor is used as an adviser in such cases, and such issues should be able to attach different relationships to the paper without having to be presented in numbered letters. The entire Committee therefore considers that, in the context of the auditor’s advice, it is necessary to introduce documentary requirements and, on this basis, opposes the Government’s proposal. The Committee proposes that the statutory auditor's obligation to keep correspondence in relation to advice be included in Section 5-5, and that «and the auditor's correspondence in relation to advice » be deleted in Section 5-4 of the proposal. The majority of the Committee, all except the Workers' Party and the SV, agree that the basis of the Share Act to waive the requirement of registered or state-authorised auditors in accounting corporations owned by the State, State or Municipality is repealed. The choice of municipal or county audit must be based on the ability of the auditor to meet the requirement of competence, objectivity and independence. The Ministry may, on the basis of these criteria, approve the possibility for auditors working in county or municipal audits to undertake such audits. Furthermore, the Committee agrees that the practical requirement will be extended by one year and set at three years. However, with the restructuring and empowerment of municipal and county audits, the credit supervision should be able to approve such practices on application for up to two years in accordance with the guidelines. Tax audit practices aimed at private business should also be able to be approved on application by up to two years by the Credit Authority. The majority of the Committee has proposed such an amendment. Finally, a few words about the general requirements for the independence and objectivity of the auditor. Independence is essential for the confidence of the auditor. It is therefore essential that the rules are clear and not suitable for weakening the requirements of independence. The legislative proposal represents a significant extension of the rules in force. The provisions of Sections 4-1 and 4-2 are difficult to obtain as a result of the complex design of the paragraphs. At the same time, terms such as ‘management staff’ and ‘other auditors’ have been used, without clearly defining the concepts. To this end, the Committee considers that ‘other auditors’ must be seen as other principal auditors. And with this clarification, the committee joins the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e887	In general, there is agreement on the setting available, and I can say for most cases and paragraphs that we agree with what the rapporteur has now gone through. There's a few exceptions to that. One concerns the requirement of practice for registered and state-authorised auditors, where we are set to be able to approve, to a lesser extent, practices from internal audit and public audit or oversight activities as relevant practices. We believe that two years of practice can be accepted for this, and that detailed rules can be laid down that up to three years of practice from municipal and county audits and tax audits can be approved. Furthermore, there is a real disagreement over the revision of municipal companies or AS where municipal owners have more than 50 pst. by the votes cast. There we believe in the Workers’ Party – and also in the Swedish Labour Party – that it would be right for those companies to continue to have the opportunity, as today, to use the municipal audit to carry out their audit tasks. We believe that on the basis of the requirements of the municipal audit around us, and we believe that for many of these types of companies, even though they have chosen an AS as a form of company, they will be an integral part of the municipality's business. So what we're proposing is that the municipality should still have the option of choosing the municipality's or county municipality's audit as auditor for that type of company. These are the two areas where we stand out, where there is largely unanimity or where we are at least in the majority. And with the background of that, I take up proposal No. 1, from the Working Party and SV, included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e896	Day Terje Andersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e899	It is 34 years since the old law on auditing and auditors was created and adopted. Since then there have been major changes in both the role of the auditor and the framework conditions and the legislation of those to be revised. The framework conditions for business have changed, business itself has changed, new business configurations are emerging, and the role of actors has changed. There is a need for a realignment and further development of the statutory auditor’s law and for making it more functional in relation to the new accounting law and the new share law. The proposal for a new statutory auditor is also based on Norway’s obligations under the current EEA Directive for auditors. The statutory auditor shall also contribute to supporting the fight against financial crime. It will be of particular importance that accounting figures are in accordance with law and law and, as far as possible, in harmony with reality. There are many users of accounts, ranging from buyers, creditors, shareholders via public authorities to management of the company and its employees. For users of the capital market, the accounts are the main source of information and it is important that the values of companies are not overestimated. The employees of an enterprise also have a high interest in the accounts in order to assess their jobs, and they may have shares in the company. I would like to comment on some of the concrete aspects of the new law, and then above all, flexibility and objectivity. The requirement for flexibility and objectivity is strongly emphasised in the new law. These include: focussed on clarifying and specifying by means of stricter requirements the auditor’s access to advisory activities in addition to the auditor’s holding the role of accounting controller. The Government’s draft law, which is now supported by the Committee, specifies that advice should not be given in such a way as to raise doubts about the auditor’s free position and his/her stability. The legislative proposal also specifically mentions how this should be done. The requirement of stability and independence requires the auditor to ensure that the remuneration of a client, a group of cooperating clients or of one client does not constitute such a large part that it is appropriate to raise doubts as to the independence and objectivity of the auditor. The auditor shall not be employed or subject to a cooperation, subordination or dependence relationship with the auditor. This is carefully specified in the legal text, and it is an important practicalisation. There has been a lot of focus on municipal audit and state audit to revise municipal and county councils AS. In the past, there has been a general exemption to revise AS where the county owned more than 50 pst. This exemption is not continued, and municipal and county audits are faced with the same standards of stability and qualification as other audit firms. The central parties believe that this will in the long term strengthen the public audit in Norway. We would also like to point out that we believe it is a strength that Norway has managed to hold such a comprehensive and competent public audit, and we hope that the changes to the statutory audit law in the long term will actually help to strengthen the public audit. Because, in the long term, the reorganisation of public audits that improves the level of sustainability in this area, in our view, will make public audits more attractive for professionals. It is important that regulatory design is done in cooperation with the stakeholders – here I would like to mention the Municipalities’ Central Association as one party – so that the understanding of the legal texts is as similar as possible. With the work done with a great deal of consensus in the committee, I believe that we have come up with an update and realignment of the statutory audit that helps us get a better piece of legislation. This legislation will be adequately linked to the European Directive on auditors. At the same time, we have a law that assures users of accounts in such a way that they have a better governance tool, and we have also arranged for the fight against economic crime. On this basis, I take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e922	Randi Karlstrøm has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e925	Now I was actually going to make a long and insightful article about the law on auditors, but since I see that the clock has passed midnight, I should just say briefly that the law is actually quite important, and that we agree with most of the points in the setting. Both the case rapporteur and the Workers' Party's Day Terje Andersen have now explained the differences that the Workers' Party and SV have in common, so I feel that there is no need to extend the debate at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e932	The President appreciates that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e935	At this time of the day I was a little in doubt if I should ask for the word. But since I understand that it takes some time to get the representatives in to vote, I still say a few words. On 5 June this year, the Government promoted the proposal for a new law on auditors, Ot. pp. No 75 for 1997-98. The proposal is based on the opinion of the Committee of Auditors. The new law will replace the law of 14 March 1964 No. 2 on audit and auditors. To a large extent, the proposal involves bringing the legislation on audit and auditors together into one law. Provisions currently set out in regulations and standards developed through good auditing practice have been incorporated into the law to a greater extent and should simplify all parties. The proposal implements the obligations of Norway under the EEA Agreement, the so-called Eighth Company Directive. I am pleased that, in its position, the Financial Committee has largely endorsed the Government's proposal. It is my opinion that the proposed law will help to ensure that different users of the accounts of a company or person have the assurance that the accounts are determined in accordance with the law and regulations. The idea of combating economic crime has been essential in the design of the legislative proposal, including: it is clarified that the auditor, through audit, shall contribute to the prevention and detection of maladministration and errors. It is also proposed that access be granted to the accountant to inform the police if there are any grounds for suspecting that a criminal offence has been committed. Furthermore, the Government has focused on strengthening the requirements for auditor independence, including clarifying the limit to advisory activities that would be contrary to the auditor’s independence and objectivity. As explained by the rapporteur, Kjellaug Nakkim, a majority in the Committee has proposed changes to the proposal on a number of points. The Committee proposes that the correspondence of the auditor with regard to advice should not be included in numbered letters, but that such correspondence should be kept in an orderly and reassuring manner for at least 10 years. The proposal in the proposal that correspondence relating to advice should be included in numbered letters was based on a proposal by a majority of the Committee of Auditors and was particularly motivated by a desire to increase the notoriety of the auditor’s work in the context of advice and to contribute to enhancing auditor’s external trust. In my opinion, the proposal in the proposal would contribute to a clean system, but I have noticed that the Committee has stressed that the numbering should be limited to ‘letter of note’. I understand otherwise that the Committee agrees with the intention that the audit and an economic advisory role should not be confused and that all letters should be kept for 10 years. The majority of the Committee proposes that there should be no obligation for certain undertakings to use the State-authorised auditor. I take note of this. I have also noticed that the Workers' Party, as Dag Terje Andersen explained, has a proposal to maintain an exemption for municipal audit. I believe that the proposed scheme, where municipalities can be organised in a district audit, meets both the needs of small municipalities and the need for professional competence and independence. The majority of the Committee proposes that the Ministry be given the opportunity to provide detailed rules that, up to two years' practice from municipal and county audits and tax audits, may be recognised as part of the three-year requirement of practice. As stated in the proposal, and as I have previously stated in a letter to the Committee, I believe that approving more than one year of these practices as part of the three-year requirement for practice will not be in line with Norway’s obligations under the EEA Agreement. The Committee proposes that continuing training requirements be introduced as an additional requirement to the statutory auditor auditing the annual accounts of the statutory auditor, rather than as a condition for maintaining approval as registered or as a state-authorised auditor. I take note of this. Finally, I have noticed that the Committee states that it is considered natural that the rules on the independence of the auditor are evaluated after a period of work, and that the Government may return to the Stortinget with the matter in an appropriate form. I am pleased that today's Odelstinget is taking decisions on a new law on auditors. It will, together with the law of the new accounts, provide for a stronger coordination of accounting and auditing provisions, which, as a whole, means simplification and a better overview of traders, while providing more consistent and time-consuming rules for the authorities as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e965	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 149]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e973	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 - 8.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e988	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left will vote against this. The President assumes that the Left too is against – that is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e998	Notification of Odelsting's decision will be sent to the Storage Department.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e1004	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1 by Britt Hildeng on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left 2, from Britt Hildeng on behalf of the Workers' Party Before we go to voting on the vote, the President will take up the vote on the whole proposal by the Labour Party, proposal No. 2, with the exception of § §8-33 and 10-8 of the Swedish Social Security Act, as well as II of the Holiday Act, which will be taken up as an alternative with the cancellation. The proposal of the Workers' Party, with the above exceptions, is as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e1129	The Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e1176	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e1196	There is an aberrant proposal here. Proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: « Paragraphs 8 to 33 of the first paragraph are replaced by the following: Social security provides holiday pay of sick pay which it has safely paid to an employee in accordance with Sections 8 to 17. Holiday money is provided only for the first 47 sick pay days of the year, see Holiday Act § 10 nr. 4th@item: inlistbox ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e1236	The Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e1312	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘ Paragraphs 10 to 8, third paragraph, points (a) and (b) are replaced by the following: (a) have received sickness benefit from the social security for a total of 247, 250 or 260 days of sickness benefit in the last three years; [[§ 8-12]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e1359	The President has understood that the Socialist Left wants to vote against point (c)? – It is confirmed by the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e1388	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The National Social Security Act shall be amended as follows: the sixth paragraph of Section 15-12 shall be replaced by the following: Notwithstanding the provision of point (c) of the third paragraph of Section 15-5, training aid may continue to be granted to a member who loses the right to other social benefits under this Chapter in the course of training. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e1701	The Progress Party has announced that it is against these paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e1741	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e1806	It is then voted over the title of the law and the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e1813	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e1823	In the vote, the Labour Party and the Right are behind this proposal. However, the President has understood that the Christian People's Party and the Central Party also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e2167	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e2174	The law decision we are sent to Lagtinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e2210	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e2217	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e2223	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Jørn L. Stang, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, Proposals No. 2 and 3 from Ågot Valle on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to take the view that the term of service of civil guardians may not be extended by reason of an eventuality. increase in the number of exemption applications. ‘... This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e2293	There are two different proposals here. That is proposal No. 1 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European First of all, there is a vote on the proposal from the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 2 shall be replaced by the following:When a conscientious objector so requests, his military officers and the printing authorities shall provide him with guidance on the right to apply for exemption from military service and on the procedure. The application may be made at the earliest during the session or after the person liable is otherwise classified. The application shall be in writing and shall include a declaration from the applicant that he fulfils the conditions of the law for exemption, as set out in Section 1 of this Act. An application shall be made on the established form. The application shall be accompanied by the evidence to be used by the applicant. The application shall be addressed to the military department of the applicant or, if it is presented before the allocation, to the regional protection department concerned. The military department shall, in the case of an application to the PDO of which the applicant is a member, submit the application. To the extent necessary, the decision-making bodies shall provide, as far as possible, information on the general living conditions of the applicant and other matters which may clarify the matter.Where an application cannot be determined on the present basis, the applicant may be required to provide further information. The applicant may also be required to meet in person with the decision-making bodies. ‘... The left supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e2319	The President then allows the vote to take place alternately between the vote and the motion by the Party of Advancement and the Right, proposal No. 1, which reads: ‘Law of 19 March 1965 No 3 on exemption from military service for reasons of persuasion: Section 2 shall be amended as follows:When a conscientious objector so requests, his military officers and the issuing authorities shall provide him with guidance on the access to seek exemption from the military service almost and on the procedure. The application may be made at the earliest during the session or after the person liable is otherwise classified. The application shall be reasoned and accompanied by the evidence to be used by the applicant. The application shall be addressed to the military department of the applicant or, if it is presented before the allocation, to the regional protection department concerned. The military department shall, in the case of an application to the PDO of which the applicant is a member, submit the application. This sends the application to the police chief where the applicant lives, with the information available to the military authorities on the applicant. The Chief of Police shall obtain the applicant’s oral explanation and shall as far as possible provide information on the general conditions of life of the applicant and any other matters which may clarify the matter. He then sends the case to the decision-making body with his recommendation.If an application cannot be decided on the present basis, the applicant may be required to provide the external information. The applicant may also be required to meet in person with the decision-making bodies. ‘... The Socialist Left Party and the Left support the vote subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e2433	There are two different proposals here. That is proposal No. 1 by the Party of Progress and the Right, to the second sentence of the second subparagraph, and proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, to the whole paragraph. In addition, the Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will move towards the third sentence of the first paragraph. The President shall first vote on the proposal by the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 9 shall be replaced by the following:Responsible person who has applied for exemption from military service for reasons of persuasion shall not be called to the ordinary service in peace as long as the case is pending before the administration or if proceedings are brought before the courts, see paragraph 9. Section 5. If the application or action is brought after the guardian has been called or has met for service, he shall be suspended until such time as the matter is decided. If the application is granted, the person liable shall, as far as possible, be transferred directly to the service of the civil service.In each case, the Ministry shall decide whether the request for recovery of the judgment in the case of exemption shall have similar effects. In the case of mobilisation or other call for war services or for exceptional duty in peace, an application for exemption under this law or case shall have no effect on the service of the person liable. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e2458	The Socialist Left has warned that they support the vote subsidiaryly now that their own proposal has fallen. The President shall first vote on the third sentence of the first paragraph. Here the Progress Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e2473	Alternatively, between the second sentence of the second paragraph of the adjustment and the proposal of the Party of Advancement and the Right, which reads as follows: ‘The second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 9 shall be replaced by the following:The case shall be brought after the person liable has been called or met for service, the summons shall be instituted or the service shall continue until the case is decided by the courts. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e2489	The President shall then vote on the other paragraphs and sentences of Section 9.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e2540	Here the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Center have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e2563	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e2570	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e2599	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e2606	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e2649	Here the Progress Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e2788	The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e2913	Here again, the Progress Party and the Right have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e3008	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e3015	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e3022	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, from Day Terje Andersen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Randi Karlstrøm on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e3097	There are two proposals here. That is proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, to Section 2-2, first paragraph, second sentence, and that is proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to Section 2-2, third paragraph. The President will first vote on the appointment of the Committee to the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 2-2.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e3108	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the law on audit and auditors, the following paragraphs are added: the second sentence of Section 2-2 of the first paragraph is replaced by the following:For the undertakings referred to in the Accounting Act, Sections 1 to 5, the annual accounts shall be audited by at least one State authority. ‘... The voting boards showed that 40 votes were cast against and 27 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 00.40.36]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e3124	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e3131	Me, too.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e3138	As there are several hands in the weather, we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e3149	It is then voted over the second paragraph of Section 2-2.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e3157	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the law on audit and auditors, the following paragraphs are replaced by the following: the third paragraph of Section 2-2 is replaced by the following:The king may, on a regulation or on a case-by-case basis, waive the obligation under the first subparagraph to have registered or state-authorised auditors and may likewise decide that in a company in which one or more municipalities have more than fifty per cent of the votes, the municipal or county audit may be chosen as auditor. In this case, the provisions of Chapter 6 on the professional secrecy and disclosure obligations of auditors shall apply mutatis mutandis. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e3227	Here again there are two proposals. That is proposal No. 1 by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, and that is proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, both to the fourth term. The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the first, second and third paragraphs of Section 3-3.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e3238	With regard to the fourth paragraph, the President will first vote on the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 3 to 3 of the fourth paragraph shall be replaced by the following:The credit supervision may approve up to two years' practice from internal audit, public audit, after-sales activities or other relevant activities as practices referred to in the first subparagraph. They may provide detailed rules that up to three years' practice from municipal and county audits and tax audits may be recognised as practice after the first subparagraph. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e3255	As an alternative, between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, which reads: the fourth paragraph of Section 3-3 is replaced by the following: ‘The credit supervision may approve until one year’s practice of internal audit, public audit, audit or other relevant activities as practices referred to in the first subparagraph. ‘... The Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have announced that they support the vote subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e4343	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-lower.ana.ud627e4350	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
