ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-25.ana.ud2383e44	Representatives of Anne Britt Stråtveit, Haakon Blankenborg, Dag Danielsen, Morten Lund and Siri Frost Sterri, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representative, Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, submitted an application for welfare leave on 26 and 27 November. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, André Kukkestad, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-25.ana.ud2383e76	As the House is aware, it has become clear over the past 24 hours that the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party have agreed on a budgetary solution which includes, among other things, the following: will be able to decide on the framework for the 1999 budget at the end of the financial debate. The solution reached by these parties is essential for the implementation of the debate currently under way by the Stortinget. However, at this stage, very few of those present have the necessary insight into the new proposals that will be available as alternatives to the proposals made in the settings on which the debate is based. On this basis, a meeting of the leaders of the party groups was held this morning and the situation was discussed. The representatives of the batches involved in that budgetary solution have indicated that a statement clarifying the content of the new proposals could be made during the morning. Of course, there will be a need for time to get involved in the details and assumptions of the new proposals, before going to a debate where these elements will play a central role. The new solution also leads to substantial technical changes in the tax regime that, together with the need for a political assessment of the new solution, it has agreed that the financial settings, the budget revenue. S. I and Budget-in. S. No 1 should be returned to the Committee in order to allow additional options to be made available to address the new situation. Based on what emerged from the meeting this morning, it has therefore been concluded that it would be right to postpone the financial debate until Monday 30 November, and that the meeting will then start at 0 p.m. 9th@item: inlistbox The aim will then be to implement the debate in one day. The President reminds representatives that on the basis of this information it may be useful and necessary to assess their flight plans. The President will therefore propose that the referrals under case No. 1 and 2 on the current map are returned to the Financial Committee. So it's going to apply to budget revenue. S. I and Budget-in. S. No 1st@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Case No. 3 and 4 on today's maps are taken off the map, to be shown on the map of the Storting meeting on 30 November. The aim is to hold a meeting in Stortinget on Thursday with a modified meeting chart, subject to handling issues. The Friday meeting is held according to the weekly programme. With reference to Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy, the President will propose that the weekly programme be amended in such a way that a meeting is held at Odelstinget immediately after this meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-25.ana.ud2383e97	There is no record.
