ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e26	We are now receiving daily confirmation that growth in the Norwegian economy is decreasing, most recently confirmed by the Statistical Central Bureau, which provided an analysis this afternoon to show that we may end up falling in growth until next year in Norway. I think that should now also be the starting point for the tax debate that we have here. It is particularly unwise to increase taxes and taxes in a situation where the growth rate in the economy is decreasing, and I therefore believe that, when they think about it, everyone will be pleased that we in Norway do not make tax increases until next year. There's a lot of reasons for that. One is that it will be easier to get a moderate wage settlement in the port if the tax increases are not as the Government originally proposed. The nominal additions will be lowered. It is also the case that the price pace will not increase by an additional half a percent in the light of the proposed tax increases. It is also worth noting that what the Government originally proposed was booked tax increases to next year of NOK 4 billion. But if you see the full-year effect of that, it was $7 billion. And in particular, it hit the businesses hard. If we look at Europe elsewhere, we see that taxes and taxes are actively being used to contribute to increased employment and further growth. That's why the surprise was great when we saw that the government went to the biggest tax increase in the decade in a situation where it was facing lower growth in the economy. Now, when you also get numbers from the SSB that the growth in the economy is decreasing so much, I think the government and the finance minister, when they think about it, are quite satisfied that the proposal for a short-term economic cost related to the construction industry was also neglected. If we had got it in addition, I think it could have been extra regrettable in relation to the development of employment. What is missing in the Norwegian tax debate is visions of actively using taxes and taxes to promote a more robust business life in mainland Norway. In Denmark, the government has invited a debate on how to get companies to fly in, not just out. You have to keep the ones you have, and at the same time get more establishment. Where is this debate in Norway? It's not the right signal to send to food for a difficult time that you increase the tax from 28 pst. until 29 pst. on general income. Fortunately, we've been able to drive it back, and I think that was very wise. Now, the tax debate that has been going on over the last few weeks has also led to innovation among several actors. I saw that the Labour Party leader, Thorbjørn Jagland, went out in the Evening Post on October 14th and said the following: ‘Deteriorating the world market, increasing competition and globalisation of the economy make it impossible for Norway unilaterally to allow for increased taxes’. That's what I mean. I fully agree with that. That is why we have also rejected the tax and tax increases in our alternative budget and put in small reliefs. If you look at the small round before the break, it is not that the Workers' Party in its alternative budget has deviated from its proposals on tax increases. On the contrary, there has been an active deterioration of the ownership of small and medium-sized enterprises through the sharing model. As far as the only country in Europe is concerned, it is also a matter of not giving any kind of discount to those who own shares in small and medium-sized enterprises. You have to remember that when we discuss 28 pst. or 29 pst. capital taxes in Norway, it must be seen in the context of the fact that we also operate with taxes on wealth which must be placed on the top. I think that in the future we should all go in ourselves and think about what means we can now use to actively facilitate continued re-establishment in a period of lower growth. The tightening up we are now implementing must be combined with initiatives that can enable both society and individuals to meet the demands of the new knowledge economy. There's a lot of evidence that we haven't quite got the consequences of the paradigm shift we're facing – the transition from an industrial society to a knowledge society. A characteristic is that there is a disproportionate relationship between the existing institutions of instruments established to meet the needs of the industrial society and the requirements of the knowledge society. An example of this is the emerging new enterprises and the new business structure. These are enterprises that produce knowledge, where the valuation is done in a completely different way from that of a traditional commodity-producing enterprise. The main input factor in these enterprises is the competence of employees. At an early stage, these enterprises – most of which started enterprises – cannot afford to pay high wages. In order to be able to compete for skilled and long-term employees, especially at an early stage of high risk, they must be able to offer a profit at a later stage when the economy is better. This is what goes under the term options. After narrowing down in 1996, the Norwegian option system has been the worst in Europe, i.e. new start-ups of Norwegian knowledge establishments have the weakest opportunity across Europe to attract the people needed to develop further. It is very unfortunate in a situation where the Norwegian economy really needs new businesses that can reduce dependence on oil revenues. A proper first step is, of course, the proposal to amend the option scheme adopted in 1996 and set a ceiling of NOK 300000. But I am also pleased that a majority of the Committee consisting of the Centre Parties, the Advance Party and the Right obliges the Government to return to the Stortinget with a system that sets the limit at NOK 600 000, and with a significant simplification of the option rules originally proposed by the Ministry. In particular, the Right Party and the Advance Party have proposed that no financial limit be set, but as a subsidiary solution it is the one to live with. It's at least a first right step. It is also important to remember that it is not beneficial for governments to seize too much of the resources in society. When the public sector grows, there will be less room for private business. Therefore, it is a fundamental prerequisite for growth in business, which is now more important than for a long time, that the public sector does not seize an increasingly large proportion of the resources in society. When the state takes money from the individual to manage them differently from the individual would have chosen, it is a great responsibility that the public assumes. Tax money must be managed in such a way as to achieve the desired objectives in the cheapest possible way. It's not like that today. With regard to the setting that is now on the table, I am very happy that we have found a solution in relation to Norwegian shipping that does not change the framework conditions completely overnight. The centre parties have gone from their original proposals, which would have been a serious estimate of an industry that employs a lot of people, and which helps us to have a cluster linked to the maritime industry in Norway. Through this adjustment, we were also driven back the proposal to increase the Equation Fees on dwellings, i.e. the housing tax, by 10 pst. I am a little surprised that a government with the Christian People's Party and the Left proposes such a 10 pst increase, as both parties have programmed the removal of the benefit tax by living in their own housing. It is not common to suggest tax increases that you are against. But now leave it, as we have been pushed back, so that no new proposals from the Minister of Finance will come in that direction in the next round. With regard to the financing of training by employers, it is also positive that a new and better system has now been put in place. You have not gone as far as you should, so that there are still some borderline cases that lie there, but there is a significant improvement that has been made. It is not the case that, in the event of coincidences between municipalities and municipalities, the equality officials should be the ones who decide what is to be taxed or not when it comes to the employer's coverage of education. It must be assumed that the employer is initially willing to pay only for training relevant to the job that the employee has. Otherwise, I notice that some parties still want to wind up the AMS scheme, which is a savings incentive scheme. Fortunately, it does not get a majority. To sum up, I think the tax debate in the future will be conducted a little differently than it has been for a while. I believe that taxes and charges must be seen as one of the important instruments that politicians can use to re-establish growth. We must innovate that we cannot operate at a tax and tax level in Norway that is much higher than what our trading partners have, not least income taxes in Norway are high. If one wants to reduce the difference between taxes on labour income and capital taxes, it should be done through a reduced tax on labour income. We have actually achieved that through the tax solution that is now to be adopted. I would also like to mention the proposal that has been put forward by the Right in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e71	Mr. Brende has then addressed the proposal that the President adopts is No. 16, which is behind the right.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e74	This setting requires that the Government's proposal to the government budget was changed by the management here in Stortinget, first by an adjusted arrangement from the government party and then by a change in it that follows the agreement on subsidiary support to the overall budget of the Progress Party and the Right. These changes also confirm the willingness of the centre party to find solutions to those parties in the Storting that have been negotiable in budgetary terms. This must be the way it works, and so it has been over the many years we've had minority governments in this country. When it comes to the issue of the Government's proposal for a new deduction model for work travel, the Stortingen has joined it. It will simplify both for the individual taxpayer and for the equality regimes. I have, of course, argued that the Minister of Finance’s assessment of taking care of expenditure related to ferries and tolls is governed by regulations when the scheme is to be implemented. I also argued that the legislation on the approval of commuting status had the necessary creation of an accidental and possible adverse outcome. When it comes to the taxation of fleets, I would like to make it clear that the special source of compensation for the exemption from the taxation of general income is at stake. This special rule does not provide for a definitive exemption from the tax on dividends from rents but defers taxation. The purpose of this model is to hold the capital of the company in order to strengthen the business in particular and the maritime industry in general. There are some comments from the Swedish Shipowners' Association and individuals that the Government's proposal makes planning difficult. I would like to say that there is a causeless unrest, which fleet layers should be added to. The most unresolved point proposed by the centre party is the proposal for a reversal of the dividend account, so that taxed capital should not be distributed only as long as there is no taxed capital in the corporation. Such a proposal may include: lead to an unfortunate lock-in of capital which, through its owners, could benefit from new and other investments. The main point of the new scheme, as I said earlier, is that dividends should be taxed on distribution. This also gives the advantage of holding funds in the company and distributing dividends at a later date. Other changes in the law come as a result of the fact that the center part does not increase the tax on general income, but continues with the existing rate of 28 pst. Otherwise, it is gratifying that one of the adjusted arrangements has found room to increase the amount of the social security charge from NOK 17 000 to NOK 21 400, that the price of the equity equation will not be increased, and that the special deduction of income for taxpayers over 70 years has increased to NOK 1470 per person. month. In the case of urban taxes on plants for power generation and distribution, as stated in Section 8 of the Tax on Property Act, I refer to the letter of 16 October from the Minister of Finance, which asks that they be taken into account from 1 January 2000. This is in line with what the Centre has previously stated, and I agree that the property tax for 1999 will be printed on the current basis of each municipality. Otherwise, I refer the case spokesman to his main post and the full comment he has given on what becomes the plural setting in the case, which is consistent with the modified center proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e100	When I hear Brende's thinking about tax policy, it becomes increasingly clear to me why I've never thought about right being my party, because the consideration he makes about how tax policy should work is an approach that is very distant from the way that my party and I think about. The most important thing in tax policy is not to punish the population, and that any tax is initially a repugnance. On the contrary, there are taxes and taxes in a society to redistribute. You have to create a fairer society for most people, and that's the starting point for SV's tax policy. You have to create a fair distribution of the goods, and you have to try to re-close the loopholes that need to be in tax law, so that companies and people are treated equally, which is also an important point. In short, the most important principle of fiscal policy is to tax on ability, but unfortunately we do not have that principle as a guide in our tax legislation. We have a tax system that facilitates a whole bunch of loopholes, there's a whole bunch of companies that are being discriminated against, and it's no longer like that, or maybe it's never been like that, that the principle of taxing by ability is what's going on in our tax laws. Let me draw up a couple of the most ghastly examples we have, which Nordtun's representative also presented in a nice way, and to which I can essentially join. This is particularly the case with the shipping tax. The shipping tax is a "marking necessity", in order to use a little unforeseeable word, by allowing an entire industry not actually to contribute to the community. It's said a lot strange about how and why you have shipping taxes, and why you don't have to pay taxes if you own a shipping company. If you go in and look at the annual accounts of Norwegian shipping companies, you will see that they represent Norway’s richest companies and Norway’s richest women and men. It is a shame that they should not contribute to the community they actually benefit from. SV, together with the Workers' Party, has today proposed the abolition of the entire shipping tax scheme and the equal treatment of shipping companies with other companies, which should have been a matter of course. The government's original budget proposal had some proposals for increasing the taxation of shipping companies, which was our subsidiary position. But in the agreement that is now concluded with the right parties, most of them have unfortunately also disappeared. Another example of an injustice in the tax system is the non-taxation of dividends. I'm afraid we're on our own here. I have a hope that the Workers' Party may eventually also see that it is unreasonable. If you are an employee, you can be taxed up to 49 pst. or a little bit above it, but if you have your income, from shares, the company has actually paid 28 pst. tax, and then you're left with a tax-free share dividend. A greater unfairness in our tax system is hard to imagine. An honest worker has to pay almost 50 pst., while a coupon cutter sits there without paying taxes at all. There's an obvious unfairness that I can't understand there's any factual, reasonable reason for. Rather for a formed conservative person, it can be a sensible approach to taxation. I also have difficulty understanding how it can actually be justified, but there is another debate. We're unfortunately standing alone about this today, but a previous line change here today also suggested that this is thought of in other parties. In any case, there is an unfairness that SV will continue to fight against. You should not discriminate between the income you receive from work and capital in that way. Otherwise, it is gratifying that in many questions that SV had previously been alone about while the Workers' Party was in position, the Workers' Party has now found its way back to a fair distribution policy. In particular, it concerns the relationship with share discounts and the identification rules in the sharing model, both of which are clearly discriminatory and unreasonable. We remain with the Labour Party on these proposals today, where the representative Nordtun did a fine job of explaining why there is discrimination and unfairness, and why they should remove the loopholes in tax legislation. The agreement reached between the five civil parties has gone in the wrong direction in a number of questions. If you take the original proposal from the Government in 29 pst. taxation of general income was, in the SV's opinion, a sensible proposal. It would be a step in the right direction to create a greater level of equality between taxation of labour and capital. This, of course, assumes that there is a significant deduction or minimum deduction to make those with the lowest income come out better, and those with the highest income pay a little more tax, i.e. the ability principle, as well as better treatment of work and capital. Unfortunately, it has not been given a majority. On the contrary, there is only SV left in the hall that believes that it was a reasonable suggestion. I assume that in his heart the Minister of Finance still believes that this was a sensible proposal, but he has not succeeded in getting through to the negotiations that have been going on. SV would have liked the minimum deduction to be increased to 25 pst. per 1 % income. We would then have – and we have also suggested – a sharing mechanism in what had been fair. It has also been proposed here, and it has even been reinforced by the Storting treatment, that options should be given advantages in many different fields. In the SV’s view, it is unreasonable to introduce schemes that tax advantage individuals rather than give ordinary wages, which should be the reasonable thing. The agreement also reduced the trade union quota. And as if it's not enough, you've made the leads for that deduction over time to be removed, and it's going to be a more general deduction from contributions to organizational or social organizations or whatever it might be, which then, of course, undermines what's been the whole purpose of the deduction. It will also introduce free passengers, i.e. the many in our working life that are not organized, but will allow the organized to go ahead and do the job and then get the same benefits as the organized ones have fought. It is, in my opinion, an unfairness introduced here, and it will become even more unreasonable when the deduction is diluted even more by becoming a deduction from contributions to organisations. Now it's not like SV has anything against organisations getting money from citizens, what we think is excellent. But what is contained in such a proposal will premiere the large organizations that have an apparatus to collect money, while the small sports teams, the corps and all the important organizations around in our many communities will not have the same opportunity to benefit from it. I'm afraid that's the situation. Now the department has told them to come back to it, but I record to my great disappointment that the majority has already concluded before the proposal has been on the necessary consultation round. Let me also draw out a couple of other aspects in today's setting. One is very positive, and it is that the Ministry has now followed up the SV's proposal on employers-funded continuing training, and has made a proposal that is now also to be consulted. The only thing I agreed with Mr. Børge Burnde's statement was that it has many obvious weaknesses, and that too much discretion is still delegated to equality officials, and that the risk of discrimination in individual municipalities is still great. Now the proposal is to be consulted by the various bodies consulted in such a context, and the Stortinget will have the matter discussed at a later stage. But what is stated here is that from 1 January next year, such a system will be introduced. It is also reasonable that another committee here at Stortinget now operates and finalises the SV’s old proposals on continuing training – what is now called the ‘reform of competences’. This is a necessary clean-up before the major reform is introduced, which may not be as ambitious as SV thought, but which has nevertheless come to the point where it will become a reality. The tax deduction for the AMS has been included in the debate. I'm afraid there's SV alone. We have nothing against people putting their money in shares, they have to. It's positive. But what's completely incomprehensible is why we're going to have a tax system where I'm going to pay for some choosing to save on shares. If I put my money in the bank, there's no one paying for it with tax deductions, and why we're going to give a tax deduction to especially favor those who want to save their money in shares, to me is completely incomprehensible. It's probably a discrimination we have in our tax system, which is obviously meant to stimulate the purchase of shares, and it's probably worked very well, but in any case, it's an unfair thing. It is an unreasonable fact that those who save their money in shares are discriminated against in relation to us other people who had to have a few dollars in the bank. There's a lot to say about tax policy, but I look at my co-representatives in the hall that it's getting late in the evening. The big debate we had on Monday, so the big ideological confrontations are hard to get into here. As a final remark, I would like to say that it is interesting that there is now a distinction in the distribution policy of the Norwegian Storing, where SV and the Workers' Party are unfortunately in a minority. There is a majority that now determines policy. That means there's now a clearer distinction between right and left, between right and wrong, than it's been for a while. It gives hope for the future: maybe a majority can be built along the same axis. Otherwise, I refer to the proposals mentioned in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e135	Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e140	Djupedal concluded his fiscal stance by saying that there is now a clearer distinction between what is right and what is wrong in the Storting than for a long time. At the same time, he said it wasn't the time, because it was too late in the evening, to take an ideological settlement about taxes. Now I didn't much agree with what Djupedal came with in his post, even his time indication of when we were in the evening, I could join. It is a little difficult to understand what Djupedal suggests that there are greater differences in fiscal policy in the harvest than in the long term. I think the representative of Djupedal must be one of the very few actors who claim it, as the Norwegian Labour Party for the first time in many years has gone out saying that tax and tax increases are actually not the thing in the Norwegian economy now. I guess that wasn't the point Djupedal was thinking about, so I wondered if he could elaborate on it a little bit. I would also like to ask the representative, Mr. Djupedal, whether it is such that SV does not at all think that there is any reason to use the tax policy in some form of stabilisation of the Norwegian economy, in a business cycle management. Does SV think it makes sense to increase the corporate tax by one and a half billion kroner in a situation where we might face zero growth to the next year, and at worst a decline in growth? When SV claimed that the most important thing about tax collection is to create fair distribution – read millimeters of justice – I also stunned a little. I thought the most important thing about the tax system was to get the money that the government needs to do with the tasks that we here in the Stortinget think are necessary, to get society to go around. But there the representative Djupedal has also brought a new dimension into the Norwegian tax debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e149	I noticed that the representative Burnde is eager today, and it is pleasant. I would also like to thank you for a nice reply. Let me take that last point first. The whole point is that we're going to have a taxing in a civilised society, is that the money we take, we're going to spend on some good purpose. It is not possible to create a fair and good society for everyone who does not have money to distribute. You can't take that money as a cup tax from every citizen; that money has to be taken in proportionally with how much people have to contribute. That means tax according to the ability principle. That means that those sitting at the top of the table should contribute more than those sitting at the bottom of the table. That means that those sitting at the bottom of the table might actually receive more than those sitting at the top of the table, but that's not our tax system, and that's my whole point. So we have a tax system that doesn't have equal treatment, not taxes according to ability, not justice as a guide, but that, on the contrary, is full of loopholes and opportunities to avoid taxation, that is to say, to refrain from contributing to the community from which you're actually going to get back. What's the point is that our society doesn't distinguish who gets the benefit of the good society has to give. If you're poor or rich, you have a chance to go to school. If you're poor or rich, you have the opportunity to go to the hospital if, unfortunately, you have to, and that's how it should be. It's the most elementary thing in a civilised society with my eyes, that you have basic solidarity at the bottom. It's SV's approach to tax policy, and if it was new to Børge Brende, it surprises me, because then he hasn't realized any things about why we have tax. If we didn't have a tax along such an axis, we wouldn't have to take any money at all. Then everyone could've just fixed up for themselves if you wanted to. It's quite possible that that's what the Right wants, but it doesn't want SV. So the ideological dividing lines here in Stortinget. It is quite right that I have no reason to defend the Labour Party's policy on a single point other than those issues of distribution policy which I have mentioned, and which the representative Nordtun has in an absolutely excellent way listed. We agree with those questions. That's good. In many other questions, we and the Labour Party disagree very much, and we will certainly remain. But we agree on the shipping tax and the various stock discounts that the Workers' Party has entered into, and I think that is positive. It's also considered an ideological distinction.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e160	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e163	I'm going to try to take a little bit of what we've been into, and what kind of attitudes we have to different questions about our own budget proposal. We went along with the Right and Advance Party on the Ferris Cavalry. It is not because we see sin in the shipowners – far from it. However, it has something to do with the predictability of Norwegian shipping, and it has a little to do with predictability of how the marine environment could develop, whether it could exist in Norway. And then you're going to have to deal with that question later and discuss whether or not to do something about that tax, and also to put down a sample to evaluate how to correct it if the bias is as big as it's said. I'm a little concerned that there should be predictability. We have also been committed to increasing yard support to the same level as in the other OECD countries. We read in the newspapers and are constantly getting messages about people who are being cancelled because the contracts that the yards were supposed to have went to other countries with which we compete and which have yard support of 9 p.m., while we operate with yard support of 7.5 p.m. When it comes to large contracts in the hundreds of millions class, it could be exactly the margin that determines whether our yards get these contracts or not. That's why we've gone into it. We have also been in favour of the reimbursement scheme for seafarers, precisely on the basis of the same principle of predictability. A large-scale training of young people for maritime industries is being conducted, and it would be too bad if, once they have completed their education, those young people were not to get a job because of the removal of the reimbursement scheme. There is a question of predictability. It would be better to discuss the debate during the year until the next budget and start now if we were to remove such arrangements and say both to the shipping companies, the shipbuilding companies and the maritime industries, that we should step down on this, we should not have a central position in the world as a shipping nation. That's what this is about. We have also agreed that there should be a right of deduction for gifts to non-governmental organisations. There are a number of non-governmental organisations that do an incredibly good job in society and are struggling with the economy. I believe it is right that they should be able to receive contributions, and you should be able to write it off. The amount of the contribution is another question. This should be addressed – it should not be possible to use unlimited resources. But it has to do with principles too. In the case of youth, we have also gone in to increase the tax-free amount they can earn, to NOK 30,000. It is no more than a normal adjustment compared to the original amount – I think there are many, many years since that amount was adjusted. These 30,000 tax-free crowns can be used for study funding. As it has become today, with expensive school books they have to pay to a large extent themselves — or as parents have to pay — 30 000 kroner of tax-free can be a good subsidy in order to get a proper education. We also went over the housing tax with the Right. It's a paradox to me that if people who sit in an old house -- it can be big, but they don't have to have a big pension -- get too much property tax on their house, they might have to move out of the house. They can't afford to live there anymore, because the treasure takes the house from them. This is a debate that has been going on in Stortinget earlier, so I'm not going so far into it, but it's been a paradox for me. Even if a person has a very difficult house and lives in a central street, it does not mean that a person earns money. A servant does not make money to live, so it was easy for me to support this. Another thing is the cash support – a recurring problem. I have abstained from saying so much throughout the debate that has been going on during the time I have been at Stortinget, but it is strange to me that the cash support should not count as taxable income. Everything else you get from society counts as taxable income – even the minimum pensioners have to expect to be in that category – so I never understood that. Otherwise, we went in for the cash support, because people had been told that the cash support was to be introduced, and we have even adopted it here in Odelstinget, so it was not just to remove it at full speed. Then, in the course of the year, the debate will be held on whether or not it will last. Spouse-shared taxation, I think, is also a good proposal. There are many couples where one serves well and the other does not. Of course, those who don't make money don't work out pension credits. In the event of a break-up or other relationship, one party is not able to enjoy the same social benefits as the other party. I have to mention a little about the mariner deduction and the rescue company. I think it's a little bit ‘tacky’, to say it with a dialectic expression, that you should take away the rescue company's ability to get mariner deductions on boats below 100 tons, when they have a fleet that consists of boats over 100 tons and boats below 100 tons. They use the crews on both types of ships – the crews ambulate, because it's not like you're just a crew on one type of boat and not on the other. It becomes a little strange to me when you get a seafaring deduction on the state's boats, which in many cases are less than 100 tonnes – I think of the Coastal Navigation Agency's vessels. Is it because it is the state that pays the people, or is it because the state has to treat its own employees specifically? Of course, I don't get an answer to that, but it gets a little weird for me – at least it's a clear discrimination. We have otherwise gone in to increase the special deduction for the elderly, and I am pleased about that. I guess most people don't have more to travel with than they need every penny, and if this can be a contribution to making everyday life easier for those who have little, we'll at least go in for it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e189	Odelstingen is currently dealing with the legal aspects of the 1999 tax regime. There have been many laws to take a stand for this year. Some of the cases are minor adjustments to the tax regime, but there are also important issues for those affected. It appears that most of the proposals in the proposal will be adopted, most with broad support. This is joyous. In the context of the budgetary agreement between the Centre Parties and the Progress Party and the Right last week, some changes were made to the proposals in the Proposition. These are changes you can live with. I then went over to some of the matters in the committee position. Because there are so many themes that are being dealt with, I'm going to settle for a sample. I would first like to highlight the change in the rules on deductions for travelling between home and work. From next year, a deduction model based on the travel distance between home and work will be introduced. The model is based on registration of the travel distance once and for all, as long as a retaining the same place of work and bopel, and automatic deduction at rates per. km or mileage intervals, irrespective of the mode of travel. Such standardisation would be a significant simplification of legislation, avoiding problems of reporting, issues of deduction from the use of cars and the risk of avoidance in relation to current rules. As we can see from the committee setting, I have stated that there are strong reasonable grounds for granting extra credit when a car is necessary to get to and from work, and this car use leads to higher extra costs for ferry tickets or tolls. The Committee has based its acceptance that the Ministry of Finance should draw up regulations in line with this. This will of course be followed up. The regulation also contains a number of other issues that need to be regulated. I'm referring here to the projection of the assumption in the proposition. The draft regulation will be sent to the hearing so that the user group and the tax rate can take part in the process. Some may depend on the fact that deductions after travel distance will not be in line with travel costs. This is a necessary consequence of the principle conversion from a travel cost model to a travel distance model. The reality of this conversion is that one does not focus on taking the exact cost level, but instead allows the journey distance to take over as a deduction criterion. This is a rational conversion, even if it gives lower deductions for some and higher deductions for others. As mentioned in the proposal, it would also be appropriate to consider limiting excessive deductions from atypical travel patterns, etc. In the case of travel deductions, this too must be regulated. As a follow-up to St.meld. No 40 for 1997-98 Enterprise ownership promoted the Government's proposal to increase the tax-free advantage of employees' purchases of shares and certificates of basic funds at a discount and to propose reliefs in the taxation of options in employment. The government considers it important to facilitate employee participation in the company in which they work, which I hope these proposals will contribute to. The facilitation of option taxation may also help to increase the ability of businesses to attract and retain expertise and competence. While there may be reasons to make it less favourable for managers to have particularly lucrative option agreements, tax rules should not prevent the establishment of option arrangements in working conditions in general. In line with the Committee's signals, I intend to make an overall assessment of the option tax system. At the request of Stortinget, Ot.prp. No 1 provided a fundamental review of the tax liability of employer-funded education. Proposals for amendments to the Tax Act have been submitted to ensure that training in employment is tax-free in accordance with detailed rules laid down by the Ministry. The proposition gives a description of what you think the detailed rules should look like. The aim of the new rules is to be clearer, easier to practice and more predictable for employees and employers than the current rules are. Hopefully, the new rules can help to increase continuing training in the labour market. Draft regulation of the tax liability will be consulted as soon as practicable. I also mention that there is a connection to raising the lower limit on social security charges from NOK 17 000 to NOK 21 400. This means that the credit card limit will increase from DKK 18 199 to NOK 22 599 and thus that access to tax-free part-time work for students, school students, etc. increases accordingly. Following the agreement between the central parties and the Progress Party and the Right, there will be a majority for two legislative amendments that were not proposed in the proposal. One is that the special deduction for the elderly is increased from NOK 12 000 to NOK 17 640. The second is that the deduction from the quota for trade unions and employers' organisations as well as professional and trade organisations is halved. In the context of the last amendment, proposals were made for the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget on how the deduction scheme for the trade union quota can be converted into a more general scheme which also includes quotas and contributions to other non-governmental organisations. The Ministry will continue to work on this. Finally, I would like to mention that the tax rate is currently in the midst of a significant process of conversion aimed at improving the efficiency of business and improving the quality of daily work and results. In this context, the proposal mentions the introduction of a country-wide testing scheme with a pre-filled declaration for the 1998 income year. As is known for the 1997 income year, a pilot project was carried out with a pre-filled declaration in five municipalities. Clear positive signals have been received from both the tax payer and the tax rate for the test operation. If the test project is successful, the aim is to establish a permanent system of pre-filled declarations. I mention that there is no point in retaining a right of choice for the taxpayer, i.e. to choose old-fashioned, unfilled declaration instead of full or partial pre-filled declaration. Pre-filling only means that the data already stored by the tax haven are set out in the tax return document. Taxes have a full opportunity and also a duty to correct and report when they have a basis for doing so. It would only be unnecessary extra work for the taxpayer to fill in the data from the pre-filling and to which he agrees. Furthermore, testing arrangements will be put in place with the electronic handover of Equation tasks from operators to the Equation Authorities. Hopefully, the scheme will provide operators with a simple and functional delivery of Equation tasks while at the same time providing the tax base with a process tool that can provide quality enhancement and rationalisation effects for the equation of traders. Tore Nordtun challenged me in his post to say something about the so-called identification rule, and I see that I might be able to take it now. Otherwise I would have feared that I would have to ask for an extra three-minute post, but it might go on the two and a half minutes that are left. Nordtun was in his post occupied by it could be called a loophole in the tax system. He characterized some rules as an ‘invitation to lawful tax evasion’ – whatever he meant by it. Tax evasion is known to be illegal. Nordtun referred in particular to the so-called identification rule in the split model. He asked me during the debate to reply as to whether I intend to propose changes to the identification rule. Nordtun clearly considered that the changes in the identification rule made in June 1997 are unreasonable. The change resulted, as you know, in, inter alia: the owner's child over the age of 18 and the owner's parent or spouse's parent or cohabitant shall not be identified with the owner. First, I would like to remind you that the rule of identification as it is now after the change is identical to the Harlem Brundtland government proposed in Ot.prp. No 35 for 1990-91 on the tax reform, which was dealt with in the Netherlands in the spring of 1991. It is therefore surprising that the Workers' Party is so critical of the current identification rule, because it must be seen as a strong criticism of its own government from the beginning of the 1990s. The original identification rule was considered unreasonable by the taxpayers concerned, since it could result in a significantly more severe taxation of the owner and his family if they together owned more than two thirds of the shares in a holding compared to whether the total holding was less than two thirds. Many considered this so unreasonable that they made arrangements for the transfer of shares to outsiders, so that the share limit was not exceeded. In some cases, the transfer of shares could be suspected of being fictitious. In that case, it would often be difficult to prove. A tax rule is not good if it is relatively easy to bypass. Some cases of transfer of shares have been tried before the courts with varying results. Three cases have recently been decided in the Supreme Court, even there with different outcomes. I realize that today's identification rule can be used to avoid sharing obligations and thus to save taxes. But more worrying than that, I think it would be to reintroduce a rule that can easily be circumvented, especially by people with questionable tax morals. I also do not entirely disregard the fact that in the future there will be a tax system in which the sharing of income is not necessary. It is clear from what I have said here, that I do not have any immediate plans to propose changes to the identification rule.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e245	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e248	I noticed the Minister of Finance's comments with interest and in particular the response given to my announcement of changes in terms of the identification rule and the extension that took place in 1997. I also note that the Minister of Finance is not going to go into any detail now and that the unfortunate adjustments will continue. I am also familiar with what has happened in court etc. But as I said in my previous post, in this House the laws are being passed. With regard to what happened in 1990 and 1991, I refer to the broad tax settlement in 1992 when this was also included, and where one had a view of what was guiding into the future. But I'm going to go on with another theme, which also has to do with tightening up. It's about the ship's cabotage. It is rare to experience that a finance minister writes such a strong letter to the finance committee as the letter of 4 November. There, the Minister of Finance explained quite thoroughly why it was necessary to do certain things with the famous shipping tax. But then suddenly you changed your vision. I'm not going to quote everything in the letter, it might draw out a little too far, but the letter illustrates how the shipping companies strongly adapt to the tax rules, and what consequences such a liberal tax regime can have for the individual. My question to the Minister of Finance at that point is: are you literally going on sailing without doing anything with these dirt holes in the shipping casket? The last question raised by the Minister of Finance relates to what Mr. Børge Burnde said, namely the value of the equation of dwellings. 10 pst. was proposed by the sitting government, but it was pushed back emphatically by the Advance Party and the Right. Where does the matter of our taxiing system now stand? I am the first to admit – and I also strongly underlined that when we worked on that communication – we have unfair tariff rules in Norway. How far did you get with that? Can you now expect to get involved in the matter, so that you can get a fairer distribution here?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e259	Nordtun commented a little on the answer I gave to his posts when it came to the identification rule. I guess I don't have much to add. He pointed out that it's here in the house adopted tax rules, and that's right. Thus, in 1991, a slightly more comprehensive identification rule was agreed than the government had proposed, but it is allowed for a majority to realize that a mistake has been made and to correct it, and that happened in 1997. An identification rule identical to that proposed by the Harlem Brundtland administration in the spring of 1991 was then arrived at. So that's the ship's cabotage. There is a difference between what the Government has proposed, which is an adjustment to the shipping tax regime, and the Workers' Party and SV are always in favour of removing the whole scheme. They claim that there are a lot of taxes to get from the shipping industry. I'm not so sure. If you changed the shipping tax altogether, I don't think it would be as long as you had some taxes to pick up from that industry. So it is true that I have pointed out that there are some unintended effects of the rules that we now have, but I had to bear in mind that there was very great disagreement between the Shipowners' Association and the Ministry of Finance when it came to the possible effects of the changes proposed by the Government. That's why I have no problem that this was not done. In terms of increasing the equivalency of dwellings, it was probably a cry to ask how things are going with the follow-up to the housing tax return that we dealt with here in Stortingen nearly two years ago. Work is in progress. As agreed at that time, it is necessary to obtain more detailed data as a basis for proposing a new tax system. But the job is in full swing, and I expect that in the next year the matter could be promoted for Stortinget. Without my being able to stand here and promise for sure, I expect that it can be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e268	I thank you for the answers. I noticed that the Minister of Finance said in his main post that there had been some changes in the laws we now have to deal with, in relation to what the Government had proposed, but that it is possible to live with these changes. Then I have to say that it is then possible to live with most, because Per-Kristian Foss stated right after the conciliation that this has actually now become a purely Right Budget. My question to the Minister of Finance is this: When all these adjustments – for now I am going to be weak and say the adjustments – that the Government made with regard to the tax loopholes, have been pushed back by the right side so emphatically, what direction does the Minister of Finance now see for our tax systems, and in what area can he see that certain steps can be taken? Because I assume that the central government will not now be involved in building down our welfare state, where the main principles have been service transfers and not cash transfers. I noticed that the Minister of Finance also said that we still have some gaps. But I look very dark at getting these holes sealed, when we see that the Minister of Finance made an effort, which was actually put completely dead when this came to the Stortinget and the compromises with the right-hand side were made. And then he says, "It's for living with." I would just like to remind you that one of the cooperation parties of the Minister of Finance on tax issues, namely the Progress Party, has a reduction in taxes and taxes on approx. 25 billion kroner, and there won't be any joke in the next round for the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e279	I don't think it's a problem to live with the changes that resulted from the final agreement with those opposition parties that were willing to negotiate a majority for a budget. You have to appreciate that at least there are people who take responsibility and set up a budget for the country. Not everyone wanted it, someone had a different agenda. There are none of the relevant changes affecting the centre games in any way. However, I had the impression that it was not the tax changes Nordtun had the most in mind, but that it was the tax level, because there was a significant change in the tax level of what was a consequence of the agreement compared to what the Government proposed, i.e. approximately. DKr 4 billion in book taxes and taxes. But the situation was that there was no majority in the Stortingen for tax increases. It was quite clear from the contribution to the head of the Workers' Party at the Workers' Party's national meeting that the Workers' Party is no longer in favour of a tax and tax increase. I have become a little more in doubt about whether there was a solar outlay that did not have coverage in the party, because it has been impossible to confirm whether that is what the party really believes, or whether that is what was promoted in the Workers' Party's alternative budget, where there were a good deal of tax increases, more specifically about DKK 2.5 billion, but then quite unilaterally oriented towards business, and especially the small and medium-sized enterprises. It could therefore be interesting to know what the Workers' Party really thinks about taxes and taxes, and whether what he said at the national meeting was only a proposal from the party leader hoping to get back to the government offices as soon as possible by using the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e288	I'm not going to interfere with the line change that has now taken place, but it's interesting to note that the Minister of Finance is being asked to respond to a situation where we don't have tax and tax increases, and it's from a party that claims itself that you're not in favour of tax and tax increases, but now indirectly claims that it's the right forces in society that have led to zero-setting. But now leave it. What I could imagine asking the Minister for Finance about is the follow-up to the treatment we had of the Accounting Act in ours. There was a suggestion from the Government that all cash sales over NOK 20 000 should be registered for 10 years by name and address. We got that driven back in Stortinget. Finally, the central parties agreed that this was not a good proposal. But now, in the design of the regulations to business, as a follow-up to the Accounting Act, one has tried again. The registration obligation will be substantially extended. The regulatory proposals have an excessive impact on control distortions, and they will add much more work to the companies today. What to do, among other things: will require in the regulations that have been consulted a record of business meetings abroad, the advice of the auditor to the companies and the report of even the smallest small sales to traders. This will lead to much more work and a lot of bureaucracy. My question to the Minister of Finance is: Has the Minister of Finance considered these regulatory proposals, and what is his view? The Ministry of Industry has already strongly warned against them. Will the Storting get an opportunity to comment on the matter in any way? That is also my question to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e297	I believe after 12 years in Stortinget that I have been told that replicas should be related to the post that was made. It was now at least not this line. But you've ignored that in other contexts, so you answer anyway. However, a minimum requirement should be that the line is at least related to the case you are dealing with, and I do not understand that this was. If the matter referred to in the reply is problematic, and one needs the finance minister's view of different things, it is only to write questions, then the finance committee shall receive an answer. I do not feel that it is time and place here and now tonight to answer the asked questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e302	In this way, the replacement of the lines has changed – with the comments that the Council of State has made quite correctly. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e307	I will not comment on the line change between Mr. Nordtun and the finance minister, but just say that my impression was enough that the Workers' Party was willing to go far to meet Right, and it had also been a prerequisite. That means that, sir. Nordtun then — if it had ended differently — would have been a strong defender in this debate of what he is now attacking. But, sir. North Tun is a flexible man. He is attacking his own government for what he himself was into. In particular, part of the sharing model that the Minister of Finance has also mentioned, and his view of the desire to reintroduce double taxation of dividends, a scheme abolished by his own Minister of Finance in the early 1990s. My question goes to the Minister of Finance. In the case of taxes, in the case of a split model, and in the case of a highest recent case law. There is a Supreme Court ruling concerning the sharing model’s provision for access to adapt by the owner selling less than 67,5 pst. This concerns the Bergen Equation Office, which is a company that has lost in two judicial organs, but won in the Supreme Court. The Court has thus confirmed a view that is in line with Stortinget’s view, in line with the views of the case-rapporteur, Mr Gulbrandsen, when the tax reform was adopted and the Minister of Finance was also a member of the Finance Committee of the Storting – and of course a representative of the big business – that there should be access to legal and real adjustment. So here we have experienced that a company has used a lot of resources to fight through the legal system, and finally, the Supreme Court establishes the obvious thing to read out of the committee's position and the big debate. My question is, and I like to shape it in general: does the Ministry of Finance see this as a problem, and will the Ministry of Finance ensure that taxpayers do not have to spend so much time and resources just to get it right? My final question concerns today's statistical central agency report on the economic situation, on so-called economic analyses. In this, it is now established that the Central Statistical Agency is at least of the opinion that the growth of GDP in mainland Norway next year will not be as the Government claims, well over 1 pst, but actually well below zero. There is a very large difference between the economic forecasts of the Agency and those of the Ministry of Finance. And I remember that in the finance debate this week, Monday, the Minister of Finance maintained all the forecasts given in the Ministry of Finance documents. None of these are now being approved by the Statistical Central Bureau. My question is: Will the Minister of Finance continue to maintain forecasts that hardly anyone longer holds with the Ministry of Finance? This refers to domestic consumption, to mainland Norway's GDP, and also to the evolution of price rise, of inflation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e318	I do not understand what has happened by the Right-Representatives here in the Chamber tonight, because the last part of the question from Per-Kristian Foss has not been erased either to my post or to the matter we are dealing with. I have some views on it, but if I am going to be principled and hold on to it that you should not answer anything that concerns neither the post nor the case, then I have to refrain. But I would like to talk to Per-Kristian Foss outside the Chamber after we have finished the debate, because, as I said, I have some views on what has come from the Statistical Central Bureau today. The first part of the question I can best interpret to be within the scope of the matter we are dealing with, for it concerns tax and sharing model and its interpretation. I have not had the opportunity to read the recent Supreme Court judgment. There are, moreover, three judgments of the Supreme Court in a short period of time. The last one went in the favor of the tax provider, as Per-Kristian Foss points out, while the other two went in – let's say – the favor of the state, where it was quite obvious that it had been unlawfully adjusted, only in order to obtain lower taxes. But, of course, there is no ban on the disposal of shares and thus ensure that no more than two thirds of the shares are owned. And when it's a real transfer, I'm glad that the Supreme Court has also established that of course it's legal. What you should be able to do to prevent such cases from going to court and becoming a precious pleasure to the taxpayer, I don't have a good recipe on the move. But I hope that when this Supreme Court judgment becomes known, it will be taken into account and that cases will not be brought to justice prematurely – with costly processes for taxpayers as a result.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e327	At the time I've been in Stortinget, it has probably been the President's job to consider what is at stake, but I understand that it is now the Minister of Finance. It's a relatively funny event, but considering that's what SV defines as late in the evening, we get to let it pass. It's also something else. Late in the evening was much later in the past – for SV. Let me then seriously say that I hope the Minister of Finance will make sure that the Tax Directorate makes these judgments known to the various Equations Offices, because it is resource-intensive for small traders to run their affairs through. After all, we experience that the Equation Office repeatedly maintains its interpretation despite legal decisions, and that there is performance in such matters. I fully agree that the transfer of shares must be real. I don't think there is any political disagreement here between the undersigned and the Finance Minister, but it's obvious that the definition of real transfer varies from the Equations Office to the Equations Office. And I think it should be possible in our enlightened time with data communications and reasonably centralised businesses to come up with common definitions in these areas. So my appeal to the Minister of Finance is simply that the Ministry of Finance is actively taking an initiative to provide the greatest possible amount of information that can ensure equal treatment here on the part of the EQS towards this type of taxpayer. Finally, I have to say that it is my opinion that the Agency's forecasts of domestic consumption actually have a certain connection with the level of taxation in a country, but I note that it is not the view of the Minister of Finance. And I hope the Minister of Finance will come back to his views on the economic prospects for next year, because I think the Minister of Finance will go into history in a better way before this year is over, to have adjusted the forecasts somewhat, if not otherwise from the Great Britain's pulpit. Because there are significant deviations when a government believes that we are entering a year of significant growth next year – 1.3 pst. of the GDP of mainland Norway — while the country’s central statistical agency believes that it is growing zero, i.e. minus 0.3 pst., which is the Agency’s forecast. It's such a significant deviation that I actually think it has a connection with the financial arrangement, including the tax regime.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e339	I don't think it's as simple as Per-Kristian Foss is now trying to give the impression, to reveal what are real stock transfers, and what are more notional transfers in order to save taxes. With some intelligence, it is enough to make transfers that do not have a real economic effect, and without it being easy for the authorities to reveal it. So I want to take that reservation that there may be some transfers of shares that are intended to save taxes, but that you cannot reveal. But to what was the question: I agree that these Supreme Court judgments – as I said, they are not just one, but three recently decreed – should become as well known as possible. Now they are available in publications, but I would like to assess whether it might be appropriate for the Tax Directorate to somehow ensure that the judgments become as well known as possible. In addition, we have both the Tax Payer's Association and business organisations and a bit of everyone I want to expect is interested in ensuring that these Supreme Court judgments become known. Then I have to ask that we have a chat outside the hall after the meeting. My short comment on the differences: I think, first of all, that they are considered to be larger than they are actually except for a few points. This applies, inter alia, to: GDP growth, and developments in employment and unemployment. There is a significant difference, and some of it is quite inexplicable to me, at least provisionally. I want to study more closely the material presented by the Statistical Central Bureau today, and to the extent that there is a need to get back to the Stortinget with amended estimates by the Ministry of Finance, that will of course happen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e348	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e362	Finally, it was our turn too, but I am going to comfort Odelstinget that there will be no long debate, for today's attitude is unanimous, and the changes in the private school law that we now have to deal with are a straight follow-up to Stortinget's treatment in October of this year on Innst. S. No 3, concerning the amendments to the scheme for the grant scheme for schools receiving State subsidies under the Private School Act. We had a wide-ranging debate in October, and the Committee simply refers to the comments and contributions made by the majority and the various party groups in the debate. The changes requested by the majority in terms of training in the community-related fields of work have not been assessed at this stage in the proposition, but the Government is continuing to examine these legislative changes in order to come back to the Storting on this matter later. That being the case, I do not need to say anything more as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e371	Like the rapporteur, I would like to show that we have had a wide-ranging debate on private schools in connection with the communication we dealt with earlier this autumn. Although the Workers' Party – and I think I can speak for SV’s account as well – now chooses to support the legislative changes that the Ministry has submitted, it does not mean that we have in any way changed our position with regard to private schools, but we realize that our proposals were voted down in the context of the discussion of the notification, and do not want to take that debate again now. We want to save Odelstinget for such a round. But that doesn't mean that in any area we have changed the excellent positions we had when dealing with the message.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e376	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 109]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e384	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-3.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e433	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e440	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e599	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against all the amendments proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e656	The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e667	The President will then vote on proposal No. 17, from the Socialist Left Party, to § 19 A-3 nr. 2nd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Law of 18 August 1911 No. 8 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:I. [[tax laws]] § 19 A-3 nr. 2 is replaced by the following: the natural resource tax of the county is calculated at a rate of 0,275 øre per. kilowatt-hour. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e693	Here, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e747	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e758	The President will vote on the motions for resolutions. 5, from the Workers' Party, No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, and No. 14, from the Party of Advancement and the People's Party of Cross-Political. Proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, says: ‘In the Law of 18 August 1911 No. 8 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:I. [[tax laws]] § 44 A-5(h) is replaced by:business building, 1 pst. II.The change in I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 1998 revenue year. ‘... Proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘In the Law of 18 August 1911 No. 8 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:I. [[tax laws]] § 59 nr. 1 is replaced by the following:1. The share or proportion owned by the asset is treated as equal to the share or share owned by the active taxpayer even in determining the person's income pursuant to § 57 and § 58. Related taxes are those of parents, spouses, parents, children, cohabitants or cohabitants. Dividends or part of profits receivable or receivable by related persons are equal to the taxpayer’s share or share. II.The change in I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 1998 revenue year. ‘... Proposal No. 14, from the Party of Advancement and the People's Party of Cross-Political Elections, says: ‘In the Law of 18 August 1911 No. 8 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:I. [[tax laws]] Paragraph 72 of the first paragraph shall be replaced by the following:The tax on the form of taxes to the municipalities may not exceed NOK 7 per cent of each NOK 1 000.II. The change under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 1998 income year. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e833	The party of progress and the Right has announced that they are against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e854	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 11, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Law of 18 August 1911 No. 8 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:I. [[tax laws]] The second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 42 is replaced by the following: ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e886	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 10, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Law of 18 August 1911 No. 8 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:I. [[tax laws]] Paragraph 42 of the 13th paragraph shall be replaced by the following:The benefit gained from the redemption or sale of the right to acquire or sell the share or the certificate of basic fund in the course of work shall be regarded as the benefit gained from the work of the first paragraph. Such a right shall be regarded as both the right to acquire an existing share or a basic fund certificate and the right to subscribe for a share or a basic fund certificate in the event of a subsequent issue. This also applies if the right is linked to the claim or securities. When the right is redeemed, the advantage is taken of the difference between the market value of the share or the basic fund certificate and the redemption price of the agreement less the taxpayer's cost price. When selling the right, the advantage is taken of the difference between the sum of sales and the cost. The transfer of such rights to the related party is not a sale within the meaning of this subparagraph. In any case, the taxable person is in kinship or in fidelity with the ascending or descending line, as well as the first and second side of the line. Redemption from the related, or sale from the related to other unrelated, is regarded as redemption or sale by the taxable person. The deliberations may lay down rules for the implementation of the tax referred to in this paragraph. §42 fourteenth paragraph shall be deleted.II.The changes under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 1999 year of income.III.Transitional rulesIf the right acquired in the 1996, 1997 or 1998 years of income: When the right is redeemed, the benefit is set at that part of the difference between the market value of the share or the basic fund of evidence and the redemption price, which exceeds the taxpayer's cost of the right and the taxed benefit of the acquisition of the right. In the case of the sale of the right, the advantage is set at that part of the difference between the sales total and the cost price that exceeds the taxed benefit of the acquisition of the right. Amounts taxed by acquisition [[recruitment fee]] The Socialist Left wants to vote against both the proposal and the vote. The President has understood that the Advance Party and the Right will also oppose the vote. It is therefore voted on first on the proposal and then on the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e950	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 17, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘ § 44, first paragraph, point (g) The second subparagraph shall be replaced by the following: a deduction after the first subparagraph shall be made at least to a coefficient corresponding to 25 pst. of wages and salaries. The size is fixed at the lower and upper limits of deductions according to the rules laid down in this paragraph. Other remuneration is also included for public or private service work, including fees, receipts, commissions, provisions, drinks and the like, as well as the value of free house and other national benefits. Wages, pensions, annuities and similar benefits are also included in wages and salaries. For the calculation of the deduction, the income shall be rounded down to the nearest figure which may be divided by 100. The deduction shall be taken into account and shall include expenditure on compulsory deposits in the temporary-employment fund as referred to in point (h). 1 for insurance as referred to in point (b) of the second subparagraph; 2 and contribution to voluntary social security referred to in Sections 8 to 39 of the Law on Social Security. The same applies to deductible insurance premiums included in non-deductible trade-union accounts. II.The changes under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 1999 revenue year. ‘... An alternative is to vote between the suspension and the proposal of the Socialist Left Party to § 44 and Roman numeral II.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e1015	There is an aberrant proposal No. 11, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: « Paragraph 44, fourth paragraph, is replaced by the following:The unitary quota may not be required to be deducted from income. ‘... The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against the vote. The Party of Progress and the Right has notified that they support the suspension subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e1044	The President will then vote on proposal No. 18, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Law of 18 August 1911 No. 8 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:I. [[tax laws]] § 44 eleventh paragraph No. the second paragraph is deleted; § 44 eleventh paragraph No. 3 becomes a new paragraph. 2.II.The provisions of § 44 eleventh paragraph No. The second subparagraph, points (b) and (d) and the rules adopted to supplement those provisions shall apply until the year of revenue 2002.III.The changes under I and II shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 1999 year of income. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e1080	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 15 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Law of 18 August 1911 No. 8 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:I. [[tax laws]] § 44 seventeenth paragraph No. 1 shall be replaced by the following:A seafarer shall mean a person whose employment on board ships is on board or on a floating installation and whose work totals at least 130 days in the same year of income. No deduction may be made for work on board ferries or for seagoing vessels operating between Norwegian ports when the distance between the first and last point of arrival is less than 300 nautical miles. II.The change in I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 1999 revenue year. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e1135	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 11 and 2 Proposal No. 11, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: « Paragraph 45(b) of the eighth paragraph, second subparagraph, is replaced by the following:If reinvestment is impossible, the gain at the rea licence is deemed to be tax-free. II.The changes under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 1999 revenue year. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e1157	Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘In the Law of 18 August 1911 No. 8 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:I. [[tax laws]] Paragraph 55, third paragraph, is deleted. The current fourth and fifth terms are going to be the third and fourth terms. Paragraph 55, fourth paragraph, is replaced by the following:The Ministry may lay down detailed rules for the completion and implementation of the provisions on persons covered by § § 55-60. § 61 is deleted.II.The changes under I enter into force immediately with effect from the 1999 income year. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e1185	Before we go to voting on § 77, the President will bring up proposal No. 7, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Trans-Political People's Party, since the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left have announced that it is against the whole of § 77. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Law of 18 August 1911 No. 8 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:I. [[tax laws]] § 77 nr. The first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: where, in the year of income, the taxable person has had exceptionally large outlays due to sickness, childlessness or other permanent infirmity suffered by him or by a person he provides, a special deduction may be granted. § 77 nr. The second paragraph is deleted.II.The changes under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 1999 revenue year. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e1264	Here, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e1287	It is then voted over the title of the law and the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e1294	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e1464	The Contracting Party has notified that it is in breach of the whole of the Tax Payments Act, with the exception of: § 11 nr. Paragraph 11, second sentence of the first paragraph Paragraph 12(4), third and fourth sentences of the second paragraph Paragraph 32, first sentence and last point 5 The referenced paragraphs are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e1488	It is then added together under the Tax Payments Act, with the exception of the paragraphs that we have now voted on. So the Progress Party must vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e1498	It is then voted over the title of the law and the law in its entirety. The President assumes that the Progress Party will also vote against this. – It is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e1509	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e1688	The President will first vote on proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party, then over the settings I and II. The proposal from the Workers' Party is as follows: ‘In the Law of 19 June 1969 No. 66 on value added tax is amended as follows:I.New Section 13, second paragraph, No. 13 is replaced by the following:counselling and assistance of legal, economic, administrative and organisational art.II. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e1785	The President will vote on proposal No. 20, from the Socialist Left Party, to the second sentence of the first paragraph of § 3(b) and then above the I and II positions. The proposal from the Socialist Left is as follows: «In the Law of 13 June 1975 No. 35 on the taxation of underwater petroleum deposits, etc. is amended as follows:I. [[petroleum tax law]] The second sentence of the first subparagraph of Section 3(b) is replaced by the following:Expenditure on the acquisition of pipeline and production device with the installations which are part of or connected to such device may be charged up to 12,5 pst. per 1 % from the year in which the expenditure is incurred.II.The change in I shall enter into force immediately with effect from 1 January 1999. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e1919	Here the Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e1948	The President will then vote on the proposal No. 3 and 19 of the Company Tax Act. Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘Law of 20 July 1991 No 65 on special rules for the taxation of companies and members of companies is amended as follows:I. [[Company Tax Act]] § 2-2 nr. 1st sentence shall be replaced by the following:In the equation of shares listed on the SME list at Oslo Stock Exchange, the price value is added per. 1 January of the year on which the equation is based. § 2-2 nr. 2 shall be replaced by the following:Non-listed shares are valued at the proportion of shares in the total tax assets of the limited liability company on 1 January of the previous year, broken down by denomination. The Ministry may provide detailed rules on the calculation of the value and lay down the form for the use of the calculation. The Board of Governors may decide by regulation that the valuation of unlisted shares subject to a different exchange rate shall be valued as determined in the first subparagraph. Unlisted shares in non-resident companies are valued at the assumed trading value of the shares on 1 January of the Equation Year.II. The changes under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 1999 year of income. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e1980	Proposal No. 19, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘Law of 20 July 1991 No 65 on special rules for the taxation of companies and members of companies is amended as follows:I. [[Company Tax Act]] Paragraphs 3 to 3 and 3 to 4 are deleted. § 3-5 becomes new § 3-3. Paragraphs 5 to 5 are deleted. §5-6 even §5-9 becomes new § §5-5 to 5-8.II.The changes under I enter into force immediately with effect from the 1999 income year. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e2256	There are two different proposals here. That is proposal No. 12 by the Group of the European People's Party and the People's Party of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and this is proposal No. 16 from the right. Proposal No. 12, from the Party of Advancement and the People's Party of Cross-Political Elections, reads: ‘In the Law of 28 February 1997 No. 19 on popular security is amended as follows:I. [[People's Security Act]] The fourth paragraph of Section 23-3 is replaced by the following:A levy is not payable when the income does not exceed NOK 28 800. The fee shall not exceed 25 pst. of the part of the income exceeding SEK 28800.II.The change in I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 1999 year of income. ‘... Proposal No. 16, from the right, says: ‘In the Law of 28 February 1997 No. 19 on popular security is amended as follows:I. [[People's Security Act]] The fourth paragraph of Section 23-3 is replaced by the following:A levy is not payable when the income does not exceed NOK 25 800. The fee shall not exceed 25 pst. of the part of the income exceeding NOK 25800.II.The change in I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 1999 year of income. ‘... The President proposes that a vote be taken first on the proposal of the Party of Advances and the People's Party of Cross-Political Affairs, then alternately between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Right. The President has understood that the Progress Party and the People's Party will support the proposal of the Right Subsidiary.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e2323	The headings of the laws and the laws in their entirety under C, D, E, F, G, H, I and J.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e2330	Law decisions will be sent to Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e2345	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, capital letters K and L will be sent to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e2499	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud2467e2506	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
