ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e36	The representative, Erna Solberg, will present a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e39	On behalf of Sverre J. Hoddevik and myself, I would like to make suggestions to allow municipalities to choose between buying audit services and having their own or intercommunal audit systems.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e44	The proposal will be dealt with in accordance with the rules of procedure. The President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time until the map is completed. There were no objections to this. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e56	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and after the contributions of members of the Government. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e65	This bill that we are about to deal with is initially a proposed amendment relating to three laws: the law on housing law, the law on housing construction law and the law on ownership. Through the Committee's examination of the matter, we have had a number of consultations with organisations that are affected by the possible changes that the Committee and Odelstingen finally come up with. Based on the consultations and the communication the Committee has had with the Council of State and the Ministry, we have also chosen to propose amendments to the proposal for a law. As regards the law on ownership, the Committee agrees with the Ministry and the Government in the proposed amendments, which are initially aimed at giving access to the complaint by compartmentalisation a more real content. As I said, this is the committee's opinion. The same applies to the right of registration in the Register of Shareholders of the holding which is compartmentalised before 1 January 1998. In the case of legislative changes directly related to housing law and housing law, the Committee is somewhat divided. There is an overall committee that proposes the changes to the law that go beyond what is in the Government's proposal, namely the creation of a cooperation committee – I'm going to come back to it a little later. What the law initially takes into account is a follow-up to a case The Stortinget has dealt with in the past, which is what we can easily call the immigration message, where municipalities, county councils and the state would be allowed to acquire shares in housing laws in order to be able to provide the part of the population with problems in obtaining own housing offers. It is this which is also the starting point of the Government and on which the majority of the Committee chooses to support. Our starting point has been that the municipalities have a general responsibility to facilitate housing for the inhabitants. They have a special responsibility under the Social Services Act to provide housing for those who have problems getting housing on their own, those who have problems with it for various reasons. It's essentially this last group, which is very different from each other, that we, through the changes we are now dealing with, aim to help, and at the same time provide the municipalities, county councils and state with the instrument necessary to fulfil their obligations under other laws. That's been our starting point. So there's been a debate outside the house that's mainly linked to the immigrant environment. In any case, it is from the Workers' Party's point of view that there is a narrowing of the issues. It is a much wider consequence that this legislative change gives municipalities an instrument to deal with the problems. But through the consultation rounds carried out by the Committee, we have got a number of recordings that have made it necessary to clarify how the law and access now make the municipalities acquire up to 10 pst. of the units in housing laws to be handled. Because, on the one hand, the municipalities are given an instrument by hand to facilitate the provision of housing for disadvantaged people, on the other hand, we have a special responsibility to take account of those who are already residents of the housing laws. It is the balancing on which the Committee stands, independent of the possibilities now granted to municipalities to acquire up to 10 pst. – for the establishment of a Cooperation Committee. The broad majority, which consists of all except the Progress Party, makes it clear through the recommendation that municipalities have a responsibility to distribute the housing, that housing should not be accumulated in so-called low-cost areas, but that we have a spread of the housing stock with a view to providing a good housing environment. Local authorities also have a responsibility to facilitate a good living environment, and consultations have shown that in larger cities, such as the Netherlands, Oslo is not easy to define parts of the city as a very good living environment. The municipality also has a responsibility to do something about it. When the municipality has access to acquire or take over up to 10 pst. This is also based on ensuring a better integration of disadvantaged people into the living environment. The right has disputed in terms of the 10 pst. rule, and the right is likely to come back to that in later articles in this case, because they aim at a more mathematical calculation of the 10 pst. as proposed by the Government and to which the majority of the Committee has joined. I'll assume that the Rightself explains to. What is the main purpose of the majority position is to follow up what the Government has put forward, and to join it with the addition of Section 10, which deals with cooperation committees, but also, as I was a little bit concerned, that the municipalities are responsible for facilitating a good living environment, with reference to the debate outside the house, on which the media have focused something, and which is that the municipalities may in case have to acquire dwellings that are initially more expensive than those they could have by not paying attention to the good housing environment, namely by establishing these dwellings in low-cost areas. Then a joint committee says that the department has a responsibility to follow up the effects of the changes in the law, and possibly come back to the Storting in an appropriate way if the changes do not have the intended effect. It is a responsibility that I trust the Council of State and the Government to follow up. With these words I would recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e93	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e96	What, in the opinion of the Progress Party, is worth noting in this matter, and which is disappointing to us in the position of the Workers' Party, is the inability to listen to the interests of ordinary citizens and residents. According to OBOS, which is the largest residential co-operation in the municipality of Oslo, there have never been such strong reactions and so many clear and unambiguous consultation opinions, which clearly say that there are already major problems in some housing laws with that access of 2 pst. which is there today, because of people who do not have sufficient living capacity. And then the Workers' Party, which in my view has been a party that on a number of occasions has shown good social commitment, goes here to the step of pushing the burden of this unilaterally over on the residents' fights and the housing laws. In the opinion of the Progress Party, this is an example of a lack of political governance and a poor ability to solve concrete political problems, which are being pushed on ordinary residents. So the question I want to ask to the Workers' Party is whether the wishes and interests of the rightholders are no longer essential to the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e101	The representative Danielsen will at least deal with a few issues. In relation to the last questioning, one could be almost dialectic and very precise and say that we do not allow the recordings that come from the housing laws to have a ‘decisive meaning’. It's totally out of the question. There are other things that it's more close to giving crucial importance. But we have chosen to give the recordings that have come a great deal of meaning to our position and treatment of this proposition. The clearest example is that an overall committee ends up setting up cooperation committees, where we clearly formulate the responsibilities of municipalities through the setting-up and in the legal text. It is the municipalities that are responsible for following up the submitted and the challenges associated with the submitted. It is not, as we have heard, the housing laws that are to assume that responsibility. It is the municipalities, and in particular it is the background to the establishment of cooperation committees. When the Committee agrees with this – and the Progress Party has agreed with the Appendix in the law to which the Committee is taking the initiative – it is independent of the possibility of acquiring 10 pst. of the shares in a right of residence law. It is based on the issues addressed here by the representative Danielsen, that the municipalities have a special responsibility to follow up. It is not a responsibility that should lie on the residents and on the district attorneys.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e111	I'm a little interested in this 10 pst. rule, and I don't think the case rapporteur should let go so easily when it comes to that particular piece, because it actually surprises me a little. That's how you can buy a share in housing laws with from five to 19 apartments. This means that in a five-apartment housing team you get a share of about 20 p.m., while in a housing team with up to 19 apartments you get a share of only about 20 p.m. 5 pst. It's a biased distribution. I want to ask you, is it right to charge a small housing unit with a 20 pst. share when a larger housing unit is released with 5 pst.? I would like an answer from the representative of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e118	The representative, Andersen, addresses a problem that I was a little bit concerned with, where the Right has a dissenting attitude. It is linked to the 10 p.m. rule, where the right to acquire by way of authorisation is granted by means of a five- or more-unit housing law. We believe that the starting point taken by the Government involves an appropriate system and model. We don't think it'll be possible to give the municipalities the tool, the instrument for which this amendment is aimed, by using mathematics and basing itself on millimeters of justice. We don't believe it. In this way, it is more of the appropriateness of our agreement with the Government's arrangements, not on the basis of millimeters of justice.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e125	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e128	In the opinion of the municipal committee on changes to the law on housing structures, housing law and ownership sections currently under consideration in Odelstinget, the majority, all with the exception of the Progress Party, will agree that municipalities, counties and state will be granted the legal right to purchase up to 10 pst. of the dwellings of Norwegian housing law. The aim of these changes shall be to provide more rental homes in the existing housing environment for refugees, immigrant families, drug users, criminals, social clients and other socially disadvantaged individuals. And of course, some of these individuals that are targeted by the law also need a place of residence. But increasingly wanting to place partly heavily burdened people living very closely with older and lonely people, along with children and families with young children, is mildly a frightening idea. For the question is, are some of these individuals looking for changes in the law, at all, into a living environment with children, families with young children and the elderly? More fear and insecurity, more troubles and much more stressful conflicts between residents of the housing laws can be the sad result of the adoption of these legislative changes today. The right to live in a pleasant, quiet living environment is a very important prerequisite for people's quality of life, and this right, in my view, will be weakened for many people by these changes in law. Many who live in housing camps are deeply concerned about what may happen, and surely for good reason. The responses from the housing laws to the proposed changes to the law that we are dealing with today have also been many and powerful. Unfortunately, during the examination of this case, it turned out that only the Progress Party has been willing to take account of the clear signals that have come from the housing camps around the country. The Progress Party then also rejects the entire legislative amendment, with only a few minor exceptions. A collective housing cooperative has also opposed all or part of the proposal from the Government, but this has not made any particular impression either on the Workers' Party, on the Government, on the Right or on the SV in their view of this matter. It is indeed a worrying democratic paradox that no more attention has been paid to the clear points of view that have emerged from the many changes in these laws that will primarily affect them. In Norway, there are currently about 250,000 apartments organised in housing and housing laws. Of these, the municipalities today own almost 2 pst., corresponding to approx. 5000 dwellings. Mathematically, this number can now increase up to the three-four-five-fold, to 15 000-20 000-25 000, by legislating to increase the municipal ownership from 2 pst. to 10 pst. in housing laws. The applicable right of residence law states that only natural persons are initially allowed to acquire shares, i.e.: apartments in a law of residence. But the same law nevertheless opens up so that the housing laws themselves, on a voluntary basis, can fall into their statutes that non-physical persons, so-called legal persons such as the municipality and state, can buy up to 30 p.m. of the shares of the residency team. Therefore, on such a voluntary basis, several of the country’s around 4000 housing laws have already opened up a 10 pst. municipal ownership or more in its statutes. But then they control this for themselves. I believe that this must continue to be based on this right of self-determination and the free will of the law of residence. And there would be good reason to believe that as long as the municipalities continued to acquire housing in the housing laws on a voluntary basis, this would help to create a better atmosphere for a constructive dialogue between municipalities and housing laws in order to create the best possible management of the housing that the municipality could be allowed to purchase in the housing law on a voluntary basis. To date, as mentioned above, this has been a voluntary scheme in which the individual housing law itself has been able to determine whether they want the municipality to purchase apartments for rent. On the other hand, the imposition of a coercive system that deprives residents of a substantial part of the right of self-determination and of the right of governance over whom they wish to sell could therefore be very provocative on the regimes and residents of the housing laws. Going from civil volunteering to public coercion is by no means a good strategy if the aim is to create the best possible climate for cooperation between the housing laws and the municipalities. This new coercive mechanism may make good cooperation between municipalities and settlements difficult to facilitate a more successful integration of the individuals it is primarily talking about in this context. With these unpopular legislative changes, municipalities can get the housing laws against each other, and this is a very poor starting point for necessary cooperation on the most combustible realities of the case. Another aspect is that an apartment in a housing bed with a poor living environment could be significantly reduced in price and the owner would have to bear the loss of any sale. This is going to be unfair. Nor do you ever know who will become the new property owner in the municipal housing companies. I would like to say that with these legislative changes, at least more of the tenants will be alien cultural refugees and immigrants, drug addicts, criminals and antisocial troublemakers, all of whom will be able to contribute to creating problems and to complicate the existing living environment and create major challenges for residents in many settlements. These problems are already big enough as they are several places with a modest municipal ownership of maybe only 2 pst. The question is whether the problems will increase accordingly and in even more housing laws when municipalities can increase their holdings to a total of 10 p.m., yes even, as I was in a line, up to 20 p.m. in a housing law where there are five apartments. In the past, local authorities have not shown any particular action and willingness to take responsibility in cases where the municipality has placed problem-creating individuals in municipally owned apartments in housing law. The municipalities now need to take their responsibilities far more seriously than before when this new law is introduced, and we hope that this is at least partly ensured by providing our support for a proposal to establish more formalised cooperation between municipalities and housing law. The Progress Party will therefore inform us that we will agree to a new fourth sentence in the fourth paragraph of Section 10 of the Housing Building Law in order to oblige the municipalities to take more responsibility. But it's anyway with a bad and bad feeling I see that the other parties are drumming through these changes when you know how much resistance there is to this around in many of the country's 4,000 settlements with maybe half a million inhabitants. As legislative politicians, it should be our first duty to listen extra well to all those who can unsuspectingly be affected in an unlucky way by the laws we adopt. I cannot see that the number of committees has listened very well to the most interested parties in this matter. I can't, even with my best goodwill, see that any parties other than the Advance Party have been willing to take the reactions of whom these changes of law will hit in the first place, in full seriousness. The Progress Party has done this by taking a clear approach to the main points of the legislative amendments that have been tabled. It is therefore with a clean and good conscience the Progress Party today as the only party, at least the only large party, on the Norwegian Grand Prix, will vote against the proposed legislative changes that we are now discussing.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e166	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e170	It's good this weekend. You can easily get a little sad when you hear the articles of the Progress Party in such a difficult case. I think the broad majority of the committee can agree that this is no simple matter, and there are no parties that have taken light of the challenges we have faced. It is actually wrong when the representative Andersen points out that the housing laws go against the changes in the law proposed by the Government. In fact, several of the housing laws and agencies that have expressed opinions on the bill through hearings understand the bill, and from the general point of view of housing policy, they are generally in favour of measures that could lead to more orderly living conditions for those seeking housing, as stated in the proposition. So that's how Andersen's representative is wrong. He says, do these individuals fit in normal living environments with young children, older and lonely? Yes, what kind of individuals is Andersen's representative talking about? I'm talking about a wider range than what he defined as multicultural and immigrant. In a society where economic cycles are rising and falling, there will be variations in individuals who are in a difficult situation and who need support and assistance to obtain their own housing. There may be young families with children who have problems getting owner-occupied housing and where the municipality has been given responsibility to provide accommodation for them. And if they couldn't live in an environment with other families with young children, or older and lonely, then I don't know! Where is the Progress Party going to start when they're going to place these individuals if you don't want them located in normal living environments? Do you want to place them on Jan Mayen? That must be the question for the representative, Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e175	I can assure the representative Odd Eriksen that if there were only small children's families, the type of residents, there was no big problem, of course. But the point is that it is clear in the proposition that the purpose is to provide housing, among other things. to refugees, immigrants, drug users, and of course to many who currently live in housing camps. And of course, this is a difficult matter. As far as the representative Odd Eriksen was concerned, that the law of residence has approached the municipal committee and been positive, it does not harmonize with the requests I have received. They have said that they will still have this on a voluntary basis, as several housing laws have stated in their statutes that they are in favour of the municipality being able to take over shares of perhaps 10 pst. Thus they believed that the intention of the law had already been fulfilled for many settlements, and that it was superfluous, but they wanted to preserve self-determination and self-determination. It's not being taken care of, and it provokes the law of residence. I absolutely agree with the representative that this is a difficult matter, but perhaps the representative, Odd Eriksen, should have thought a little more about it and possibly heard more about the signals that, after all, have come from the law. For they are not at all positive to the law, they are essentially negative to the law and the changes in the law that we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e184	I think the Progress Party should think through its answer to one specific question: where do they think that those who have problems in our society should actually live, and will there be a better urban environment by placing the immigrants in the ghettos, the drug addicts in the shelters, the children of drug users in the shelters of other drug users and not integrating them into the usual living environment? I understand that you can choose to say that it is voluntary, you have to try to find other solutions. I think that's right. It should always be the main device, in any case. But I think it's the post that Torbjørn Andersen had, to me, poses a big question about what the Progress Party really thinks about where those who have problems in our society are going to live, whether they're not going to be integrated into the usual living environment, and how, for example. Immigrants and aliens must learn Norwegian if they are not to live in the vicinity of Norwegian neighbours and in normal living environments, so that they can actually be integrated, learn Norwegian – work in our society. The different messages the Progress Party is trying to use are not related. But what I think is most strange in this case is that the Progress Party, when we dealt with the law of the same, was in favour of a much more radical position when it was about how many apartments in a community a municipality could buy. They went in too freely. The majority of the population went in to have a 10 pst. limit there, which is the starting point for equality now, but the Progress Party and the Right went in for, from the free market’s thinking, freely ahead – the municipality could buy half the house. Why should those who live in housing camps have greater protection over who becomes neighbours than those who live in a joint? It is not linked in the view of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e193	The representative Erna Solberg addresses an extremely important, timely question. I would like to divide my answer into two. First of all, I would say that with our policies maybe the problem wasn't that big. We had far fewer refugees and immigrants with our policies, and it had reduced the number that today needs housing. We want to speed up the expulsion of asylum seekers and want fewer people to stay on a humanitarian basis. So our policy would reduce the number of people who need access to these municipal housing. In general, I would like to say that when it comes to placing people who, under social law, need housing that the municipality needs to provide, some of them should be placed first and foremost in a more unfamiliar environment outside typical residential areas. That's my opinion. And we have to respect that people want to live in peaceful surroundings. It is not possible to just place anyone in normal accommodation. It has to take all of the games inwards. We must respect the fact that those who live there have the right to live peacefully. And when, for example, For criminals, our party will have a more stringent criminal policy, which might have led to more people staying longer inside the walls. In the case of some drug users, I would say that residential settings with treatment facilities would be a better alternative than placing them out among young children, older and young children’s families.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e204	I understand that parts of the Housing Policy of the Advance Party are about keeping people in prison longer, and that it is going to solve this situation. To look at that side of it, I think we should have other criteria. But I want to take some of what Torbjørn Andersen said, namely the right to live. We have the right to live – even in safe and good residential areas. Is it so that this right is just for someone, or is it about the right to live well and through it maybe get a better life, for everyone? I could also imagine asking if Torbjørn Andersen has any numbers that can verify that most of those who will be affected by such a scheme will actually have such problems that it will be difficult for them to live in a common settlement? I don't have any numbers to show it. On the contrary, these are small exceptions. Then the representative made some very special claims and also wants those who have problems in society to be sent to unseen areas outside common residential areas. I do not know if you intend to get this into the regulation law or how you intend to attack this. Where in the policy of the Progress Party can we now expect to find such proposals? Is it when we deal with the gross domestic product of housing for disadvantaged and young people? Finally, I would like to address some of the things the Progress Party has done now, and as they always do, namely that they mix crime with multiculturalism, and even use terms such as ‘social troublemakers’. Can the Progress Party today say whether it is possible to judge or estimate, on an ethnic basis, that a person is a social or a criminal and therefore not fit to live in settlements with others?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e217	I noticed that the representative from SV, Karin Andersen, followed up what Erna Solberg from the Right was inside. To start with, when I mentioned prison, it was just a marginal, small contribution. In the case of criminals, they should probably be inside the walls for a little longer than they do. When it comes to the right to live, I was asked about the right to live for everyone. It does, of course, but it's not that the right to live is the same as the right to bother others. That's got to be pretty important. The right to live is not the right to offend others in the places where they had to live. There's an important distinction, and there's a consideration that we can't get out of. The representative, Andersen, grasped some of the things I was in my post, about crime, about the multicultural, and the word "social" was mentioned. Of course, when it comes to mixing multiculturalism and crime, it is premature to claim that there is a firm link between these two things. But at least it is so that multicultural people have a different way of acting that can create problems in housing laws, regardless of whether what they do is criminal. It doesn't have to be at all. But some things can actually create conflicts, I personally have some examples of that. Of course, these are things that you have to try to find solutions to. [[The President clubs.]] To stop, I would like to say that I believe that what I have been involved in my post has absolutely its importance and reality.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e230	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e233	Most of us will probably receive us to have neighbors who create problems for us in everyday life. That's how much we should admit, and I understand that very well from many of the letters we've received from housing companies that don't want to get social problems into themselves, because it creates stress in everyday life, it creates problems, and it also causes you to get yourself a degraded living environment. On the other hand, we live in a complicated society where there are people who fall outside for various reasons, who have mental problems, who have drug problems and who are simply in an economic situation that makes them need help to get a home. There are quite a few of those who get help from housing offices around the municipalities, who just got into an unhappy situation and have a bad economy and need help, they're lonely caregivers and others. So the question is, what is the answer to that? Should our answer be that we want to have a housing policy where the municipalities have a responsibility, but where they only build different institutions, own furniture, own homes, and isolate them from the usual living environments? I think it's right what you've said, that you place as many people as you can out there as you can. The starting point is that you don't place people in a normal environment you're sure they can't work, but that those who can should be there. In the case of refugees, it has an impact on integration. If they don't get in touch with other Norwegians, they don't learn Norwegian, and you have to take the consequences of that. So in the case of refugees and in the case of immigrants, we see the problems if there's too much ghetto. As far as the reform we are working on in the field of psychiatry is concerned, it is a question of trying to integrate these people as much as possible into normal living environments, into normal working environments and trying to get them out of the institutions — treating them and making them work as best they can. Then we have to have housing policy tools to provide them with housing. Although the Right agrees with the principle that housing cooperation should preferably be found on a voluntary basis, we see it that when all municipalities that have expressed themselves in connection with this proposition report on the need for such a legal support because they feel that more and more people say no, we must give the municipalities an instrument, because we do not want the ghettoization, the furniture houses and the shelters as housing options for all those who have difficulties in our society. But in the opinion of the Right, this at the same time places a great deal of responsibility on the municipalities, because it is the municipalities that are responsible for ensuring that the living environments around us are good. And here we know that the municipalities have failed in the follow-up of those who are outposted. The fact that this section of the law does not have to become a sleeping pad was quite essential for us during the discussion of the question of giving the municipalities such access. Municipalities can't just get a place and then forget these people. We know that people have different living capacity, different ability to function in a living environment. There must be simpler mechanisms to get out those who are unable to function in a normal living environment than it is today, where some housing laws have reported that they have to go to court for expulsion, because they do not meet anyone in the municipality who takes responsibility, they are just sent from office to office. This is why the majority have agreed to create a cooperative body to deal with these problems, not because the creation of a new body necessarily solves the problems, but because at least it provides a responsible and committed place to deal with the problems. The right has distinguished at one point, and this relates to the size of the right of residence in relation to the right to purchase the share. Here we think you need to have a little bit more mathematical organization in terms of the 10% rule. Or rather, we believe that giving the municipality the right to buy one of five apartments in a small housing law can be too tough if problems arise first. It is too few to deal with the work in relation to the municipality and others, and we therefore believe that this is a change in law that fits better in the larger housing laws than in the very small housing laws. Now there aren't so many settlements that only have five dwellings, but in some of the rehabilitated settlements in the cities, there are old settlements that have been converted into settlements. I do not think it will have such an impact in relation to the municipality's offer to buy. But it's going to be a pretty heavy burden if someone first creates problems, and there are only four others in the housing team who are going to deal with it, and you can't distribute it to any more people. Therefore, the right has a separate bill in the setting that I will be allowed to record. We want a balanced living environment, and that's why we think we need to have this paragraph. We have to make sure to have a social policy in this country that can work in a way that doesn't seem stigmatizing, but that can treat those who have problems, and living in a normal living environment will actually help to do it better. As a consequence of the Right's right-to-freedom in the case of the condoms, because we don't want the kind of restrictions that the majority of the Stortinget put into the law of the communion, namely that legal persons couldn't buy more than 10 pst, we also think it logical that the housing laws should not be the only ones that have this exclusive right to choose away neighbors who could create problems. I think that the Progress Party in this context is very illogical, because they stood on the same free arrangement as us when it comes to the joint – and the majority of the tenements in Norway are organized as joint – while in the case of housing laws you want to have an exclusive right to choose from neighbors you don't like. We think that everyone here has to be involved in taking a load. But we think it is important to stress the responsibility of municipalities to ensure, when they have a means of not making ghettos, that this tool is not used to take over too many social and housing problems in the same narrow area. We have to give this responsibility to the municipalities that they follow it up with good living environments. I feel that both Oslo and Bergen, which are the cities I know, have come to recognize that some of the social policies that were pursued in the 1970s and 1980s, where people in some parts of the city, including municipal homes, are now on their way back, because they see that creating poor living conditions for the whole area, making it impossible for a living environment to function, not only for those who are direct neighbours, but for the whole area, the school community. These problems have to be distributed a little better in urban environments.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e261	The representative Erna Solberg has drawn up the proposal she herself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e266	What disappoints the People's Party on the Right's position in this matter is that, contrary to what has been traditional Right's policy, the Right's aim is to strengthen the public's demands to follow up those who lack housing and to pursue a better and more offensive housing policy, now, instead, the problems are affecting those who live in the housing laws, the problems that the public has created. Now, notice, here's an ideological reorientation in the right. Earlier, when the Right was to be revitalized in the 1970s, self-ownership democracy was the fundamental position in the Right. Lindebräck, Syse, and other central right - hand politicians all called for the Right to promote self - ownership democracy. And the argument here is very important to notice. The crucial thing is to have ownership, because it increases the commitment and sense of responsibility when you own something and are responsible for something. What the right is doing here today is going the opposite way: you allow the number of legal unit-holders to increase. My question to Solberg's representative is therefore: does this imply an ideological new orientation from the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e275	This does not imply ideological reorientation by the Right. What has been the difference between the views of the Progress Party and the Right for all years has been that when we talk about freedom, self-democracy and everything else that is important, we have also always talked about social responsibility, about a social security network and about taking responsibility for the weak in our society. Sometimes you have to weigh some issues against each other, and this time we have assessed it so that even the weak in our society have to get the best possible offer so that they can function in society. Giving them the opportunity to live in an ordinary living environment is the best thing we can do for most people to work well. I think you should never forget to talk about social responsibility in a conservative ideology. What we're doing in this context is strengthening the public demand. We are now introducing a requirement for a body to address the questions, where to follow up those who have poor living capacity, and where to follow up much more closely than what the municipalities have done today. Then I will come back to what was not answered from the Progress Party in the previous round – self-ownership democracy. Is it just people living in housing camps? Does it not also apply to those who live in the same home? The progress party meant something quite different when we dealt with it two years ago – that is, freely rather than buying. So then the municipality could own e.g. 50 pst. of a joint.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e283	I would like to say, via the President, to the representative of Solberg that my point here is that you already have very bad experiences with 2 pst. And then, in my opinion, it makes it worse by raising to 10 pst. A relatively loose opinion has been formulated on the need to have a cooperation committee to look at this. The solution must be, to show social responsibility, to put stronger leadership on the public and not to push this on those who are often in a social housing trap. The problem is that there are large social distortions in this area already today, because most of those who have social problems etc. are located in the areas where there are lowest prices of homes, they become concentrated, and then you get the getto effect that Erna Solberg says she doesn't want.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e288	I do not believe that a law paragraph is a loosely worded comment in a setting. It is a legal paragraph that establishes this body as a mandatory cooperation body between municipalities and housing law. In addition, we have asked the Council of State to follow up on this matter, both in terms of concentration in the various urban areas or cities and areas, the use of local authority purchasing opportunities and the follow-up of local authorities to the responsibility they have to ensure that those living in a municipal rental dwelling do not impair the living environment. We expect that if there are major problems with this paragraph, we will come back to the Storting with an assessment of the additional measures to be taken. I trust that local politicians around take responsibility for their living environments and take responsibility for what they do. These areas have been much more focused in recent years, and I have experience, among other things. from my home town of Bergen where there was a reasonable degree of renovation in a part of the city where you had had too much accumulation of social clients. There was simply a separate action plan for the Loddefjord district, just to limit the municipality's ability to use it as an area to place its social clients, because there was the lowest cost of buying apartments throughout the city. I also feel that the City Council in Oslo today thinks in greater terms about the issue of managing the housing environment, among other things. as part of the action program we have for Oslo in the inner east, so I feel that the vigilance in these areas is much better. Back to the Progress Party: The problem for the Progress Party is that they have no answer to what we are going to do with the concrete problems we have, namely that there are people who are going to need help from the municipality to find housing. It may be easy to be critical of others, but the Progress Party has no answer to the most important questions of responsibility for the weak in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e295	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e298	The housing situation of many disadvantaged people — whether they have poor advice or there are other reasons why they need help to obtain housing — is problematic. There are too few dwellings available, and there are too many prices in terms of both purchase and rental. That's why the law we're dealing with today is just a little bit of what's needed to make the housing situation for disadvantaged people better than it is today. The people we're talking about now are people who have bad advice, often combined with other problems, and people who have so complicated problems that they need help getting a living. But the starting point must be that everyone has the right to live, that they also have the right to live well, and that they have the right to live with others if they want to – that is. that society does not have the right to isolate people in uninhabited areas if they have problems. SV is in favour of this amendment, but we will warn against believing that it will be essential to bring about a real and big change for those involved. There's a lot that needs to be done. There are several issues in the municipal committee to be dealt with over the winter, and consideration of these issues will determine whether there will be a comprehensive policy in this area. We are about to start examining the 1999 budget, and part of the local authority's ability to discharge its responsibilities in this area will also be determined. The responsibility is great, and some of the problems that have been raised today come from the fact that the municipalities have not followed up the responsibility they have to help people live in a way that creates the least possible problems. Very many people need follow-up, housing guidance, treatment and rehabilitation. That's why they've come into the situation they're in, and they don't get out of it just by getting hold of their heads. It is therefore important that we point out this responsibility from the Committee and that we point out that the municipality has a responsibility before the problems arise. There's a point to be leading was here and assisting, so you can avoid conflicts – that must be the best. The municipality is also responsible for providing housing and spreading it – it is very important. In order to achieve this, we need to bring in completely different arrangements with regard to loans and grants in order to raise a sufficient volume, so that the municipality has enough housing and the ability to buy them where they are now expensive. It has been pointed out before today that there have been trends in ghetto formation. Yes, it does, because it is more expensive to buy homes in so-called better strips of the city than in others. And if we want to avoid ghettoing, we have to make sure that the municipalities can afford to buy homes and spread the housing purchase beyond so that we reach the goals we want. The size is also responsible for housing support schemes in addition to loan and grant appropriations. It must then be possible to create a fairly large non-profit rental market – much larger than what we see today. The construction of student housing will also be important. If you get a proper volume on the student housing market, it will significantly ease the pressure on the rental market. The size has a great responsibility for the arrangement we are now adopting, not for the problems to be pushed from the municipality to the individual housing law and to neighbours, as some claim have sometimes happened – and so it does. The experience of some types of housing law is poor, and therefore a system of cooperation has been proposed for municipalities to deal with the conflicts that arise. It may be difficult to live together, so the responsibility of the municipality must be emphasised, and it is preferable to get in before the problems have arisen. Few of those who receive housing receive housing, get or create problems — no more than most of us do. It's different ability to live as good neighbors, it's fairly evenly distributed among the population. Some conflicts may also be caused by the fact that the so-called normal neighbours can also be a little difficult to deal with. However, treatment, follow-up, rehabilitation and social policy instruments are the responsibility of society, and this needs to be strengthened. Humanity is important and we have no right to choose away and choose not to relate to those who have problems.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e314	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e317	Through the President, I would like to say to the representative Karin Andersen that I agree, of course, that people should have the right to live, but I cannot agree with an unlimited laissez faire-liberalist, one let it scour and walk in that area, that one should have an unlimited right to live without simultaneously having the duty to comply with the rules of the house rules applicable in housing laws. That's exactly why it's so important that people who are going to live there document sufficient living capacity, and that's where the municipality has to come in. We already have a bad experience with what the municipality does. There have been very clear statements from the housing laws that it is already not working in some housing laws. Then the solution SV here today is forfects, in my opinion a bit lightly. Instead of focusing on that part of the problem, the problems of housing law where many people already have poor housing status are only increased by almost five-fold the number of rentals in housing laws.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e322	The aim of the law is to increase the number of rental homes and also to increase the possibility of spreading them. If this law is implemented, therefore, the possibility of spreading the burden on several types of housing will be much greater than it was before. Otherwise, it is a little difficult for me to understand that my post can be perceived so that I believe the unlimited right to stay does not entail obligations. Of course it does. Of course, it follows obligations to live in a housing law. Everyone has to try to relate to it. This law does not exempt anyone from following the rules of a law of residence, but substantiation of residence may be a little difficult. In that case, everyone would have to do it. Many of us have lived in housing law and have different experiences with it, even though the neighbor did not get there via the social office. It is clear that some people will need more help than others to adapt to this legislation. We believe that the system we now want to adopt will help. And from our point of view, we have very strongly underlined the local authority's follow-up responsibility to the people you can assume will have such problems. That's the way we think we can best help these people get a better life situation, which we think they're entitled to – in line with all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e331	I have an additional question for Andersen. As is the case today, as a resident in a housing law law, you have a house order to deal with. If you go against this, the ultimate consequence is that you are thrown out of the brigade. But how has Karin Andersen thought of this if you have a legal unit, that Oslo is a municipality, for example. has a legal share in the residency team? Then the situation is that you complain about one of the tenants you've got, it's a very long-term and heavy process, and then you can get him out, and then there's a new person who might not comply with the rules of the law of residence, house rules, etc. So you can have a continuous problem. What requirements will the representative Andersen make to the municipality for them to lose their right to have a legal share in housing rights?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e336	The demands we make to the municipality, we make through the laws and regulations that we require the municipalities to follow up. It's true, as Danielsen says, that in some cases you can experience such conflicts. The cooperation mechanism we now want to adopt is in order to resolve this, and through cooperation, to create schemes that both the law of residence, the individual resident concerned, and the municipality can live with. Because here the municipality also has a responsibility to provide housing. You might also be thrown out under this scheme because you have a behavior that is not compatible with being there. It could happen. But in such a situation, the municipality would lose the right to give this dwelling to another person who needs help to get housing is completely unreasonable, because it means that one is collectively convicted for something for which one is not personally responsible. Nor can the Progress Party believe it is right that a person who comes after someone who has violated a law in a housing law should be judged for something that the one who had the apartment before has done. It's completely unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e343	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e346	I am pleased that a large majority of the municipal committee have joined the Ministry's proposal to amend the housing laws in order to make it easier for municipalities to provide housing for those who need it, whether refugees, asylum seekers, the elderly, the disabled or other disadvantaged, and that this will make it possible to spread housing in different areas of residence. Following the proposal, the public may acquire up to 10 pst. of the shares in a right of residence law, if the statutes do not open to legal unit-holders. The proposal does not imply an expropriation or pre-purchase right to acquire units but is based on voluntary sales. The size has adopted a similar provision in the Ownership Act. In my opinion, there is no reason to have different rules in the ownership law and housing laws in this area. There are many residential properties that are suitable for municipal rentals. It is therefore natural that the right of the public to acquire rental dwellings is now also included in the housing laws. I am aware that a large part of the housing cooperative is skeptical of the proposal – I myself have had meetings with several housing companies. This is justified by the fact that municipalities have often had poor follow-up to their tenants, and that this has caused problems to other residents. In this respect, I would like to remind you that unacceptable behaviour on the part of a tenant can both provide a basis for expelling the resident and giving the municipality a notice of termination as a unit. The maturity limit for what other unit-holders need to find is the same whether the unit-holder is himself or a sub-owner who lives in the dwelling. Therefore, with a view to avoiding redundancies, municipalities will also have a strong self-interest in following up their tenants. It is strongly underlined in the proposition that municipalities are responsible for following up those allocated housing in housing law. At my discretion, therefore, the interests of the other unit-holders, who are also residents, are properly safeguarded in the proposition. However, I have noticed and I take note that the Committee also wants to legislate for the so-called legal persons who have acquired shares in a related housing law to participate in a cooperation committee with housing law on the acquisition of units and the management of sub-rents in related housing laws. In most cases, this will involve a further imposition on the municipalities. The Committee asks the Ministry to follow closely the practice of the new legal rules by the municipalities, both in terms of the dissemination and follow-up of cooperation with the housing cooperative. I can confirm that the department will follow how the rules are practiced and how this develops. In addition to the changes in the housing laws, the Ministry proposes to amend the complaint rules in the Owners' Section Act and to allow the registration of all owner-parties in the Business Register. I am pleased that a large majority of the committee has also joined these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e358	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e361	I noticed that the Council of State was talking about spreading the housing. I would like to go further on that very question, in terms of the dissemination of the groups to which the law refers. Of the country's 435 municipalities, there are housing laws in only 200. It's mostly city municipalities, and it's larger municipalities. Does the Council not see that this law will result in an enhanced centralisation of social problems, by the fact that the groups mentioned in the bill will now be able to attract the municipalities they know to provide them with housing, i.e. where housing laws exist? It is an aspect which has not been promoted in the debate, but which I would like the Council of State to assess, whether it could mean that the municipalities with housing laws – in close proximity to all municipalities in this country – can act as a magnet on those who want a social housing.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e366	To the question of this will lead to the centralisation of people who want to get help from the municipalities to get housing: No, I honestly don't think so. I think these are basically people who have no conscious idea of moving to municipalities that are going to be extra nice to get social housing. These are people who are often in a desperate situation, knowing that they have no place to live. I noticed that Andersen's representative said in a reply that the children's families had to be provided housing. Then I would like to remind you that in the case of families with children, we have it among immigrants, among refugees, among asylum seekers, and I expect Andersen to believe that it is not just ethnic Norwegian small children's parents and children's families that should have this opportunity, but that it applies to everyone. I also remember that in the case of the elderly, we actually have older people who do not have an ethnic Norwegian background, and who need a place to live. I expect that the Progress Party believes that it should not be the skin color of the elderly who decide whether a municipality should ensure that they receive an acceptable housing offer. So, I would recommend to the Progress Party to be somewhat more nuanced when they talk about who needs social housing. Then I would like to remind you that the municipalities are actually responsible for providing housing. We must give the municipalities a real opportunity to follow up on this responsibility. So the amendment of the law we are now proposing is in line with that. I have also noticed that it has been highlighted that the housing laws have protested against this scheme. Yes, they do, but OBOS was actually the ones who recommended that we make a similar change in the ownership law in its time. Let me also remind you finally that in the law on housing law, it says that up to 30 pst. can be used for social housing. Now the government is proposing, and I'm glad that we get a majority in the Storting for, to open for 10 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e377	Let me first say that I am very pleased with the thorough work that the Council of State and the Government have put into the preparation of this proposition. It is also expressed by the relatively broad connection that the proposition has received. So that's the way the Progress Party is parked on the sideline, because in many ways they have a completely different starting point, that's a completely different world they're dealing with. They love to fish in touch with water – for the recordings that have come have also made it apparent that problems are already related to renting in housing camps. Those problems, I don't think, are getting any smaller or bigger if the municipalities don't take seriously the challenges and the input that come from the housing laws. But that is what we have done through the proposal on committees of cooperation. Through the Committee's work, we have raised the question of the ministry's views on such a cooperation committee. The Ministry writes that they will not advise to introduce a legal provision requiring such cooperation between municipalities. While arguing that it may be appropriate for municipalities to enter into such cooperation voluntarily, the law on housing law also refers to the law on housing law, which has clear rules on what one can tolerate of the behaviour of residents in a housing law. So my question to the Council of State is to see if she can explain why the Department is planning to introduce a legal provision that requires local authorities to cooperate in such a way.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e382	I'll try to justify it in three points. First of all, the municipalities are responsible for getting people a house when they can't handle it easily. They are responsible for social housing policy. But it is also the responsibility of the municipalities to follow up the apartments they rent out to people who need it. It is clearly specified and underlined in the proposition. I think the municipalities are conscious of that responsibility. Then I will refer to the rules contained in the law on housing law, which we believe reveals what is to be done in a housing law, whether it is a legal owner or a sub-rent. The third point is that I have gradually become more and more restrained by imposing too many new, detailed provisions on what they are to be responsible for. With regard to the last point, I am actually a little concerned that we both from the Government and from Stortinget too much come up with detailed provisions on how the municipalities should handle their tasks. I think the proposal here today is a little bit in that street. In it it is that if we first accept that the municipalities are responsible for social housing policy – and they do – we must accept and trust that the municipalities follow up the responsibility as they think it is most practical to do so. So it's also been an argument, and for my part, it's probably the last point that gets more and more important.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e393	No more words have been asked for. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e398	The representative Odd Eriksen is certainly right in saying that the Progress Party here at Stortinget is parked on the sideline. But there we are with those who wear their shoes, the ones who live in the living quarters and know where the shoe prints. The progress party believes that the majority of people do here today are running away from their responsibility. Instead of imposing obligations on the public and politicians who have adopted these rules, they are being pushed onto housing laws, which are made into real ghettos in some cases. What is our answer to this problem is that the public must provide enough land. The answer is also that the public must take responsibility for the residents they place around in the housing laws. Of course, the right to live applies, but it is not uncircumcised. With the right to live, it must also follow obligations. The Progress Party has called for greater regulation of land, a reduction in the processing time and a simplification of the legislation, so as to facilitate the construction of land in this country. Furthermore, we have agreed to rent dwellings on the market. Municipalities and the public can build dwellings themselves instead of intervening in existing housing environments where they have acquired rights in the form of forming a housing law. There are also housing laws that voluntarily take people who have housing needs. And as long as that happens that way, it's completely in line with our policy. The public can also purchase available dwellings on the market and can purchase them in areas other than, for example, in the Groruddalen and Oslo inner east. Furthermore, we can help refugees and asylum seekers in the neighbourhoods, so that we can help many more and thus reduce the pressure in the press areas. We can, for example: allow the money to accompany refugees and beneficiaries and exempt the press areas. We can leave the burden on the public, not on individuals, and so make everyday life much more pleasant for individuals in Norway who are today being disproportionately hard hit. The solution to this problem is, therefore, to leave the burden on the public rather than on individuals, who are being disproportionately hard hit.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e407	In this debate, it has in part been bad to hear the absence of consideration for residents in the housing laws and the lack of understanding of the importance of having safe and good living environments in the country's 4,000 housing laws. Again one sees that politicians actually choose to take more account of troublemakers and troublemakers than of the peaceful and law-abiding. When the public restricts self-government in the housing laws, it cannot be seen as anything but a public offence. And then one might ask, what kind of society is one going into? How much power should we give it to the public? And how far are politicians going to go in overstepping the interests of ordinary people? In my view, this matter is about a number of fundamental views of what public and politicians can afford to do with groups in society. In this case, perhaps half a million Northmen are partially ill-affected by what eleven members of the Municipal Committee have meant. Of course, democratically and constitutionally, this is not reprehensible, but it is morally strange that politicians are not more sensitive to them to whom a law should apply. And in a case like this, where the signals have been so clear and unambiguous against the law of the parties involved, it is incredible that politicians have not taken more account of the signals than they have done. Of course, politicians have overall responsibility for the whole of society. However, it means that one must make decisions that primarily have a anchor and support in a broader group of the people, and preferably those relating to it. In this case, these considerations have not been taken into account to the extent necessary. The fact is that the political majority is speaking against the people in this case, and it does not at all promise any good for what this legislative amendment could have negative consequences in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e418	There is certainly no reason to extend this debate extensively, because what has been debated so far is a very different view of human beings. Individuals are hit disproportionately hard, says Dag Danielsen in his last post. Yes, they do! There are many who have also been hit in the way that for different reasons they have not managed to get a place to live. And when Torbjørn Andersen stamps all of these as troublemakers and troublemakers, it's kind of impossible not to object. Because it is that the vast majority of those who need such help to obtain housing will be able to get help through what we are doing in the amendment of the law today. I can't understand where Thorbjørn Andersen got it from, and what kind of reason he thinks he has to label the majority of these as troublemakers and troublemakers. What the Progress Party is calling for is a segregation policy: if one is such, if one is to live there, if one has it in a slightly different way, one must live somewhere else, and if one is fighting a little, it is preferable to live far out in the woods or somewhere. We have a view of something like this: we think that this diversity is good, but sometimes it means that some people are unable to comply with rules and laws, and then we have to have a system where we're trying to get these into the most normalized way of life. We think that's the best way to make both them and society work as best as possible. Then a segregation policy is a completely wrong way to go. It would only sedentate differences and sedentary ways of acting, where one must never break against the neighbor or against colleagues, or against friends or those who had to meet on the street. Especially given the child's balance conditions, I think it's pretty serious if you were to go along the lines the Progress Party is now drawing up, where you were to separate parts of the population because they have the common characteristic that they have had to get help to get a living. Two progress party representatives come here with two very different messages. Danielsen wants more power to the public and believes that it should intervene more strongly, while Torbjørn Andersen believes that the public gets too much power through this law. So it's a little difficult to get what the Progress Party really wants, except that they want more people to stay longer in prison, and fewer refugees and asylum seekers to enter Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e425	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e439	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 29 f.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e447	Odelsting is ready to start voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e453	In the course of the debate, Mr Solberg, on behalf of the Right, has presented the proposal included in the vote on page 6.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e474	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against the entire setting, with the exception of the new fourth sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 10.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e537	Here is a different proposal from the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Law of 4 February 1960 No. 2 on housing law is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e708	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote. The President expects the Progress Party to vote against as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e719	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e782	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13-lower.ana.ud413e789	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
