ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower.ana.ud126e37	Before case No. 1 is addressed, the President will state that this position has not been beyond the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Rule 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President proposes that Odelstinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower.ana.ud126e51	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 95]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower.ana.ud126e65	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes and Twist Party 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower.ana.ud126e76	First, I would like to address the Labour Party's proposals and proposals on which the Labour Party is with others. Odelstingen is now being discussed by the Financial Committee on the 1999 tax regime. The wording shows that there is broad consensus on a number of fiscal issues, but there are also clear policy lines in other important tax policy areas. So to the individual points: The Committee has found it necessary to clarify the rules on deductions for journeys between home and place of work, as there have been a number of different interpretations by the local authorities of what to deduct and what not to deduct when you are commuting. The change in the system for different travel modes that the Government imposes on what to deduct between home and place of work has been discussed. There is broad agreement on the system conversion with the addition and clarification of necessary additional costs, such as ferry tickets, tolls, etc. Otherwise, the Committee goes in different directions on known tax policy issues, such as the shipping tax, stock rebates, the further fate of the split model, including the identification rules and the tax aspects of the cash support. We also have the raising of the Equation Fees for Housing and Business Construction, which the government parties have now dropped to satisfy the Right and Advance Party, as well as the halving of the deduction of the trade union quota, as the centre parties, in discretion, united with the Right and the Progress Party, present as a contribution to the parties in the renewal of income policy cooperation. It may be natural in a debate on the tax regime to remind each other of the task a tax system should have in today's welfare society. Our tax system will still consist of three main parts: it's the personal income tax, it's indirect taxes and it's corporate taxes. Tax revenue is intended to finance a large part of our public welfare. We all know that a modern, civilised society requires a well-functioning public sector. For that to happen, we need income. Furthermore, we need to have a good tax system that affects the distribution of income by making them pay with the highest incomes relative to the highest tax, which includes, among other things, the following: provides the basis for persons with low or no income to receive public transfers if they are entitled to do so. For us politicians, our tax system is also an important instrument for managing fluctuations in economic development. Nor is there any doubt that taxes have a significant impact on the distribution of income in our society. I would like to stress that it had been so decidedly an advantage for all of us that in our tax decisions we could have had more predictability and long-termity. We know that our tax decisions have a direct impact on how much people will work, important investment decisions to make, the extraction of natural resources, and not least the choice between being an employee and being a businessman. Most people have to experience the basic principles of the tax system in such a way that they pay equal taxes on equal income. In general, the need to ensure equal treatment, neutrality and justice will limit the simplicity of a tax system. However, the working party is very concerned about keeping to the main point of the tax system that the tax base must be so wide that it can finance a good welfare country. From this point of view, the Workers' Party will be open to discuss possible simplifications in our tax system. The central parties, the Right Party and the Progress Party have had this budget harvest, which has been customary and well collapsing as these parties have been in many important tax matters in recent years, attacked the Workers' Party's tax proposals and claimed that they are small-scale hostile. Let me immediately repeat that the five bourgeois parties here are pushing small businesses forward in their eagerness to maintain significant loopholes in our tax system, loopholes that benefit entrepreneurs with high incomes. In the Workers' Party, we are not in favour of increasing the overall level of taxation. If we fit our house well, and at the same time we are able to build up an oil fund that can contribute to the financing of the aging wave in the next decades, there would be no need for a general tax increase. This does not mean, however, that we will stop the work of closing the loopholes in the tax system. These dirt holes are unfair and give poor distribution. The dirtholes also contribute to tax-motivated investments and adaptations. In the financial debate, a Roma proposal on welfare policy was adopted, such as: contained a expressed desire to implement measures that could help improve the functioning of the economy. In the Workers' Party, we see the sealing of loopholes in the tax system as measures that can help improve the functioning of the economy. In this area, the Workers' Party will continue to work to improve the tax system. Let me take some time to be specific about some of these loopholes in the tax system. I am, to put it mildly, a little above the central party's and Christian People's Party's bona fide defence of tax rules that not only favour but also, in the case of the identification rules in the divisional model, also open up the possibility of legal tax adaptation contrary to the intentions of the tax law. The main purpose of the sharing model is to prevent traders and active owners of limited liability companies from taking labour income out as capital income at a lower tax rate. Through their cooperation with the right-wing parties, the centre parties have, for example: contributed to large incentives for active owners to draw income as a dividend instead of in the form of wages and salaries. In limited liability companies, division shall take place where shareholders actively involved in the operation represent more than two thirds of the share capital or are entitled to more than two thirds of the company's dividends. In order for the sharing obligation not to be circumvented, we must have rules that prevent the owners from transferring shares to related persons, for example. wife and children, only for the purpose of avoiding division. These rules are referred to as the identification rules. On a proposal from the Right, in June 1997 the Stortinget adopted changes to the sharing model, making the identification rules easier. The rules are now such that shares can be transferred to children over 18 years of age, parents and spouses’ parents without those shares being considered to be ‘the owner of the active taxpayer himself’. This is the closest, possibly with the exception of the shipping tax, the bourgeois bulk has come to an open invitation to legal tax evasion in recent years. And let me, as an advocacy to Monday's financial debate, and without any further comment, add that this new loophole in the split model was adopted in June 1997 and applied for the income year 1997. What are the consequences of the loopholes in the split model? Let me give you a thoughtful example: an exclusive shareholder in a limited liability company lets their adult children receive one-sixth of each of the shares in the company as an inheritance. The children don't work in the company, they're teachers at the local school, for example. After the transfer, the owner is no longer subject to the sharing rules. He can thus reduce his salary from the company in order to avoid social security contributions and top taxes. In a case where the payroll is reduced by NOK 300000 and the resulting surplus after tax is distributed as a dividend, the family may place NOK 95 000 in the pocket, as a result of the arrangements made, NOK 12800 to father and NOK 82200 to children. The loser in this legal tax adaptation game is society and our common well-being. If one wants to study these matters more closely, I can recommend articles and statements from Professor of Business Economics, Terje Hansen, of the not-so-frightful radical Norway School of Business in Bergen. I would also like to take the opportunity to ask for the government's work to seal the tax loophole. The parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party spoke to the Official Journal of Bergen on 27 January 1998 on the following identification rules: «We do not want it to be possible to save taxes on the transfer of shares to family members who are not themselves involved in the company and who themselves do not contribute to the creation of values in the company.» The parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party further said that he did not overlook the fact that we should 'get a change in the law as soon as possible'. I asked Minister of Finance Restad a question about the same relationships in ours. In his letter of reply, Restad says: ‘I have noticed that it has been claimed that the change in the identification rule may result in adverse adjustments. The Ministry therefore has this issue under assessment.’ I ask the Minister of Finance to state whether he intends to propose changes to the identification rule so that this form of tax adjustment can cease. I assume that the Minister of Finance can give an answer during the debate. There are several unfortunate aspects to the sharing model. It was in its time a broad majority of the basic principles behind the sharing model. The sole proprietor or active owner shall have 28 pst. taxes on the estimated return on the capital held by him in the establishment, and there was more than good monn added through a liberal rate of return on capital; the other income was to be taxed as labour income at higher rates. The Central Party and the Christian People's Party, in cooperation with the Right and the Advance Party, have introduced new loopholes in the sharing model after the adoption of the tax reform. This applies not only to the changes I have mentioned in the identification rules, but also to the favourable ‘thickness rules’. In Norway, we have a system that implies that entrepreneurs with incomes below NOK 680,000 have up to 50 pst. in taxes on income. But once the income comes over NOK 680,000, the tax automatically becomes 28 pst. This is due to the roof of the divisional model, through which the bourgeois parties have pushed. The result is that traders with normal incomes have more than twice the tax rate of large incomes. Therefore, the Workers' Party will remove the roof of the sharing model. The Labour Party will also have a fairer tax on wealth. In Norway, pensioners and others who place their savings in the bank and live in a debt-free dwelling pay full property taxes from the first penny. Those with the really big assets, on the other hand, who can bear the risk of having a lot of money in shares, get 35 pst. a discount on taxes on wealth. It is remarkable in the tax system that some types of property, such as shares not listed on the stock exchange, must be significantly lower than others. Moreover, it leads to distortions of investment, resulting in socio-economic costs. The distribution effects of such tax rules are very unfortunate. Those with high incomes and large wealth have often placed their wealth in shares. Ordinary employees and pensioners place most of their savings in the bank. The result is that even those with small savings have to pay property taxes, while those with large equity assets and low debt do not have to pay property taxes at all. The working party will remove the stock discounts. It contributes to more justice. The bourgeois parties reject the Workers' Party's proposal for tightening up the tax system because they believe it would affect the companies. It is turning the matter upside down. What now threatens Norwegian companies is a weakening of competitiveness and a high level of interest rates. It is precisely in the interests of Norwegian companies that the Workers' Party wants a tight fiscal policy. Let me summarize the Workers' Party's view of the sharing model and the stock discounts: It is not hostile to small enterprise to remove a rule, the identification rule, which encourages the transfer of shares to own children over the age of 18 years, parents or spouses, only to avoid a tax of 28 p.m. It is not hostile to small businesses to remove a rule that gives sole proprietors and active owners 28 pst. tax on all labour income between NOK 680000 and NOK 3187000. It is, on the other hand, a bloody injustice against ordinary employees to maintain such a rule. It is not hostile to small companies to have owners of unlisted companies pay the same property tax as pensioners with money in the bank. It is not hostile to small enterprises to stop speculators from setting up non-exchange straw companies, which are the owners of listed shares, only in order to achieve lower taxes on wealth. On the other hand, it is good for small businesses that we have a broad tax base, and we can also get lower rates. Moreover, it is important for small businesses that economic policies provide lower interest rates. Today, a number of small businesses face burdensome borrowing costs as a result of the high level of interest rates. It is not hostile to small businesses to put obvious gaps in the tax system. The tax reform was originally a reorganisation of most tax holes in the old tax system. It was the big companies that were able to adapt to avoid taxes. Now we want to close these loopholes. The Workers' Party has also proposed to remove the zero tax on the shipping companies, perhaps the largest dirt hole in the current tax system. The bourgeois parties have rejected that. They believe that this is a tax haven for the shipping companies and not for the shipowners. This argument is based on the idea that the economic interests of the owners should be independent of the economic interests of the company they own. Of course, that's not the case. One more krone in profits in the company increases the shipowner's wealth by one krona, regardless of whether the krone is paid in dividends or held back. Sooner or later, the profits and tax reliefs fall to the owners. The working party has made it clear a number of times. In the national budget and in a letter from the Ministry of Finance of 6 November, we also have this confirmed. The intention of parts of the Government's tightening-up proposal is to prevent massive adjustments from the shipping companies, which means that the owners do not pay any dividend tax on dividends actually paid. The working party is engaged in its tax system of distribution and value creation, which must characterise any tax system intended to promote the creation of value in a market economy and the non-discrimination of different activities and types of capital. These include: for these reasons, the Workers' Party is committed to filling some of the gaps in the tax system. The holes in the tax system mean that the capital does not go where it gives the most return and value creation. The majority of the population have asked the Government to provide an assessment of the different benefits and disadvantages of a more proportional tax system. I expect that this investigation will come to Stortinget in 1999, and that the Government will also present a more comprehensive assessment of our tax system, as the Stortinget asked, and not one-sided focus on flat tax.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower.ana.ud126e190	Tore Nordtun has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower.ana.ud126e195	Two questions to the representative Nordtun: Like his party leader Thorbjørn Jagland, the representative Nordtun here today says that he is not in favour of increasing the level of taxation in connection with this year's government budget. Why, then, does the Labour Party have proposals that help to increase the tax level by DKK 2 billion in its alternative budget, compared with what is now being adopted at Odelstinget? The second question relates to predictability — taxation and the Workers’ Party. There's been a lot of playback lately, some of them have also Tore Nordtun. In August he went out in the newspaper and said that the Workers' Party now had to go in for double taxation of the dividends. Now I see that SV proposes it in the setting we have on the table today. What has led to Tore Nordtun's change in relation to the double taxation of dividends in relation to its previous positions? It was also a matter of here we had to close the loophole again, and this was unfair. Is it so that he has changed his view that double taxation is a loophole? Tore Nordtun was also in his post on the shipping tax, and said that we cannot see the shipowners independently of the company. He might have a point there, but it's not that one can see the owners of an enterprise independently of the enterprise. If you exacerbate the tax system, as Tore Nordtun suggests, it is clear that it will be very easy for business managers to compensate by taking more out of businesses, so that businesses are hit. I thought it was an overall objective of the Workers' Party not to increase taxes and charges, because it could lead to leave. What's the point? Are you going to increase the tax by 2 billion, or are you against it?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower.ana.ud126e206	I will try to answer the representative Mr. Børge Burnde's two questions. As the representative Burnde presented it, the Workers' Party advocated strong tax increases. If something really has been noticed this autumn with the presentation of the Workers' Party's alternative budget, it is precisely this that the tax increase has not been the review melody. On the personal tax side, we clearly see it. The right has gone for a tax increase, among other things. for employees who pay the union quota, etc. The right hand side was the lot that was going to go in for a zero tax increase. What we've been into, which is the increase Børge Burnde refers to, is to close the obvious loopholes in our tax system, and they all thought I was busy closing. That's why I also went into three areas in particular and spent a lot of time on it in my post, namely the sharing model, the stock discounts and the shipping tax. In the three areas, there is tax evasion that we have gone through to close. In fact, there we also received a good deal of support from the Government, because in the first draft government budget, these tax havens were very much pointed out. We're on the government's proposal on several of these points, but they're now changed – after these tournaments we've had in this room. When it comes to double taxation, I would just like to say briefly that we have had a debate in the party over a longer period of time on these issues, among other things. on capital tax of 28 p.m. We insist that we do not have that double taxation. I am fully aware of what I said to a present newspaper this summer – a opinion at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower.ana.ud126e219	The representative Nordtun spent a lot of time in his post attacking the centre party, in this case confined to the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, because we have the hold that we want to stimulate a corporate culture with active owners in Norwegian business. I'm a little surprised that Tore Nordtun, who actually said that he was in favour of a tax system that would promote value creation, is attacking the Center Party and the Christian People's Party because one wants to take care of a system of corporate taxation that has as its main intention to stimulate active owners. For the Center Party's part, it's anchored in a view that we want to spread power and capital. It's grounded. I also think that's representative of the other centers. But I see that at this point in terms of spreading power and capital, we are not supported by the Workers' Party's representative Tore Nordtun. I'm saying that putting unimaginable holes in the tax system has to be a task for a government, same thing. It actually sounded to Tore Nordtun as if his party had not been in the vicinity of government offices for the last ten years. He spent a lot of time on the identification rule. In fact, it is a Supreme Court judgment that has supported the identification rules that exist – it has said something about it. I register that Tore Nordtun is unaccompanied in it. My question is: how will Tore Nordtun stimulate active owners, and is he against, for example. working capital must be allowed to be in an enterprise?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower.ana.ud126e230	I spent some time, as I said, in my post on these three main points: the sharing model, the stock discounts and the shipping tax, because, as I said, I was somewhat disappointed when I saw that the centre parties, especially when it came to the shipping tax, changed their position here in the Grand Duchy when we started to deal with the matter in the finance committee. I think the Minister of Finance made a good contribution to the Stortinget in connection with the State budget, where he pointed out four-five areas of the new shipping tax system with which something should be done. I assume that it was not for nothing that the Minister of Finance wrote that the government's proposals for tightening up were proposed to enter into force from 5 October 1998. It was actually the same day the budget was published. In the legislative proposal from the Ministry, it is clarified that there is no obstacle to such a date of entry into force of the Act. What I said I was disappointed with the Center Party and the Christian People's Party for was that they wouldn't join in and close obvious loopholes. With regard to the identification rules, we took very seriously what emerged, when they became so strongly expanded, and the opinions that came from the centre parties that we had to do something here, and that's how we perceived the letter from the Minister of Finance to the Stortinget. But nothing has happened. One is involved in a wave that goes in one direction, and that is more liberalisation. When it comes to this Supreme Court judgment, it's in this room and this thing we're going to pass laws, and then we'll also have to adjust the laws if they're not as precise as they should be. I see that time has run out. Holte had another question, and I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower.ana.ud126e241	I listened to Tore Nordtun's contributions, and there were many reasonable considerations relating to the effects of tax increases in the economy today. The representative of Nordtun stressed that tax increases are now the wrong medicine for the Norwegian economy: tax increases contribute to the difficulty of getting a moderate wage settlement into the port by spring, the nominal additions are getting higher, tax increases lead to unnecessary price increases, and it is also so that when growth in the economy slows down, it is foolish to launch large tax increases – it is necessary to stimulate the growth power of the economy. That's how far I thought it was good music. That's why I have some difficulty understanding that the answer to this would be NOK 2 billion in tax increases and tax increases, because that's what the Workers' Party is proposing. I have a question for Tore Nordtun. Of course, it is nice if he answers the question from the representative Holte at the same time, but I hope that there will also be some time to answer the question: when tax and tax increases are negative for the Norwegian economy today, is it that the 2 billion DKK proposed by the Labour Party in tax and tax increases in its alternative budget do not have a negative effect on the Norwegian economy, but if anyone else had proposed 2 billion DKK in tax and tax increases, would it have had a negative effect on the Norwegian economy? I have some difficulty getting to that logic, so if Tore Nordtun could help me clear up a little bit here, I'll be grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower.ana.ud126e250	The amount of NOK 2 billion that Børge Brende is still pointing to, we'll probably be able to discuss. But what was the point of the post, and as I emphasize now, are the loopholes that we want to live. I've said that over and over again. I also referred to the identification rules and also to the shipping tax, because there were no proposals for the conversion of the shipping tax the Minister of Finance came to Stortinget with, but it was about the sealing of obvious holes. Børge Brende also has his memory very well in place. He knows well what the Workers' Party said about the competition fee, the electricity tax and the CO2 tax, which we have been very firm all along. This also has an impact on enterprises in Norwegian society. With regard to industrial policy, as Holte asked – I know very well how long the Labour Party has been in government before the new government took over – the Labour Party did not have a majority in this room, and there is no excuse. But what I'm looking for is that there's long-termity and predictability in our tax policy, and then we have to work together to get it done, as we did in 1992. Then it's not the right direction the center has now embarked on by going to the Right and the Advance Party to invite to that cooperation. That's also why I finally said in my post that I looked until 1999, when the government comes up with an assessment of different tax arrangements, because then we can take a broader tax debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower.ana.ud126e259	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower.ana.ud126e263	I would first of all like to point out that the overall structure of taxation and all the broad lines of the draft budgets of the parties are not the subject of the debate. I am therefore going to take into account the concrete legislative amendments that form part of the overall budget of the Progress Party, and will therefore not explain all the overall priorities set out in the financial debate. The Progress Party assumes that the distribution of income in society is primarily a result of individual labour input and will not change the distribution of income through progressive taxation. The Progress Party believes that progressive taxation is particularly unfair to people who have invested a lot of time and money in their own education. The party to the progress will therefore in the long term remove all taxes on income from the State and, as a start, introduce personal taxation on the basis of a flat percentage for all with deductions in the form of deductions from tax. However, the most acute problem in income taxation now is that even low incomes are taxed heavily. The Progress Party will therefore support the creation of a good tax base for all by proposing a substantial increase in class deductions in our primary draft budget. Thus, fewer people will depend on social assistance and other crumbs from public hands. An easy way to combat poverty is to eliminate the poverty caused by the tax burden. Theprogression party will also eliminate the injustice of the tax system that penalises the income families. We therefore want to introduce a spouse-shared tax, which in short means that the total income of the family is divided into two equal parts and taxed in class 1. This will mean that a family that serves together, for example. 350,000 kroner, will pay the same tax regardless of whether the spouses have actually earned 175 000 each, or whether one has earned 250,000 and the other 100 000. In the case of the introduction of spouse-shared taxation, both spouses, in addition to full class and minimum deductions, shall also earn the same pension amount. However, through the agreement with the Government Parties and the Right, the Progress Party is pleased to have contributed to the actual decline of total passenger taxes in 1999. The framework conditions of business are and have been at the heart of the Progress Party throughout the time Left was more concerned with green grass and internal wrangling and throughout the time Right engaged in ‘light red’ values and was more concerned with becoming a large popular party than with pursuing a policy that is important and necessary for business. The Progress Party therefore believes that the Bondevik government's attack on the business world in the draft state budget is discouraging and also seems a little thoughtful. It's a shame to say that, but for the Bondevik government, the attack is even a breach of promises, and for Minister Sponheim, it must be very painful. The attack I'm talking about is an attack on several fronts: Firstly, the proposal to increase the tax rate on general income from enterprises from 28 p.m. until 29 pst. Secondly, the tightening of the shipping tax that, according to the Shipowners’ Association itself, would give an additional tax of nearly DKK 1 billion per year. year only from the shipping industry For the third increased electricity and fuel oil charge, the fourth introduced a business cycle tax that would give an estimated extra tax of 1 400 million. DKK only in 1999 The Progress Party is very pleased to have actively contributed to the reversal of all these attacks on business by means of the budgetary agreement concluded between the five civil parties. The Progress Party is also very pleased to have had an impact on increasing the special deduction for age from DKK 12 000 to DKK 17 640, which was the level in 1997. I would then like to make a few comments on other aspects of the tax regime mentioned in the vote, but will not affect the proposals agreed by the Progress Party. The Progress Party asks the Government to speed up its efforts to deduct contributions to non-governmental organisations. However, we cannot support the proposal to equalise the right to deduction of the trade union quota and the deduction of contributions to non-governmental organisations. We recognize that there is a significant difference in tax freedom to meld their own cake and tax freedom for unselfishly making a financial contribution to the local Scouts' Association. The Progress Party believes that it is important to encourage workers to become co-owners in their own enterprise and assumes that it is a broadly anchored political objective to facilitate such ownership. We therefore propose that no limit be imposed on the right of employees to options. And we suggest that, of course, options should not be taxed until you know for sure that the option has a fair value. Taxation at the time of issue is, in effect, a tax on values that may be equal to zero, and inhibits the opportunity of strong workers to become joint owners in their own company. The Progress Party has found that the Government is alive to the market and that, therefore, the Government will put a stop to employers’ access to pay for employees’ education and training. We believe that it is quite obvious that the employer should not pay for the training of employees unless the employer benefits from it. Such benefits should not be taxed. The government puts a tax brake on the market, which means turning people's educational pathways from something so useful that employers will pay for it to educational courses that are not useful to anyone. It should be a cross of thought for the Government that precisely such a policy leads many lawyers to feed themselves as taxi drivers, while there is a lack of doctors and economists. The party concerned notes with some concern that the Government itself warns that the regulatory framework in the context of the Tax Payments Act has become so complicated and unforeseeable that this should be subject to a technical audit. However, our concern is primarily linked to the Government's proposal for a solution, namely through regulatory authority to add additional power to the ministry. We want to assert with some force that there is nothing to suggest that such an action will contribute to some cleansing in the regulatory jungle. We therefore oppose the granting of additional powers to the Ministry, and we expect not only a technical but also a political review of the Regulatory Board relating to the Tax Payments Act. Private individuals and businesses in this country need more transparency and fewer regulations, not more power for the ministries. Finally, I must be allowed to say that the vast majority of deduction schemes will be unnecessary after we have introduced the progressive tax system of the Progress Party, and society will be saved for a number of lawyers, tax advisers and equality officials who can rather be put into community-based work. However, within the system of deduction we have, we have to put great energy into making sure that the deductions are correct and fair from our political point of view. I will be allowed to address the proposals on which the Progress Party stands alone, and the proposals which the Progress Party is promoting with other parties. The position also shows which proposals we subsidiaryly agree to in agreement with the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower.ana.ud126e312	Kenneth Svendsen has then taken up the proposals he referred to, and after what the President understands, it is the proposals No. Seven to fifteen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower.ana.ud126e315	Hardly any theme, except veggies and veggies, has the ability to create debate and commitment in close proximity to each meeting where the theme is taxation and taxation. When I look beyond the assembly here, I doubt this claim – but I leave him standing anyway. It's probably not so strange that it's like this, because this tax is directly related to our wallet -- and it means a lot of failure in everything about the importance of other values. It's not bad that we have to have a tax system, but the tax system is an important hub for promoting the different parties' values and ideas, weights and priorities. So this total deal is going to be a better run. The government's proposals for the 1999 tax package included: the importance of rationalisation, voluntary organisations and the business community, as well as the good distribution profile of the tax regime. These aspects have also been taken into account in the proposal before us. First, a little about rationalisation: the proposal introduces a standardisation of the rules on deductions for journeys between home and workplace. These rules are a strong simplification of the current legislation, which has created a lot of headaches and led to many calculations, discussions and complaints. I'm overindulging that most people, both commuters and equality officials, welcome this change. In addition, a test scheme with electronic handover of equations from business operators is provided. In this context, there should be an improvement in efficiency. This is about using modern IT tools also in communication with the government. By Ot.prp. No 1 pt. 20.4.2 Participation in this test project is shown to be based on free choice. On the basis of a clear positive signal from the five municipalities that have carried out the pilot project with pre-filled self-declaration for the 1997 income year, it is now proposed that the testing schemes for the 1998 income year should be extended to cover all municipalities. Once again, we're talking about using today's technology. I would like to believe that the vast majority of tax payers appreciate the fact that the job with the self-notification will now be checked and, if necessary, correct the wrong numbers and information, instead of filling in all the fields of the self-notification form manually. This is in line with the Government's goal of less bureaucracy and more simplification. Employers-funded education tax rules have been a grey field in many ways. On the basis of the decision of 30 April of this year to review this principle in order to stimulate positive attitudes in society when it comes to continuing training, the first paragraph of Section 42 of the Tax Act is now amending. In addition, the Ministry has started work on a report on the theme. In the odelstningsproposition, the evaluations of this have been made in advance, and the final statement will be designed after a hearing round. This must be a step in the right direction. When it comes to voluntary organisations, I must first mention that as a consequence of last year's decision to wind up the mariner's deduction from the 1999 Rescue Company, 8 million have been added to the State budget for next year. kr to compensate the rescue company for its additional costs. In the context of the suspension of the right of deduction for the union quota and the union quota, the Government has asked the Stortinget to propose how the scheme of deduction from the year 2000 can be made into a more general scheme which also includes quota/contribution to voluntary organisations. We think this is entirely in line with the development of an increasingly nuanced and comprehensive organisational community. In the Christian People's Party, we attach great importance to the positive effect options can have on making employees become co-owners of their own business. Especially in small and medium-sized enterprises, this can be crucial to the care of key personnel, in order to secure skills and to secure jobs. Together with the other central parties, we have therefore found it defensive and sensible to raise the option tax limit to NOK 600 000. In Ot.prp. paragraph.1 included some restrictions on the tax on the carriage of passengers by rail. In our assessment of this, we found that one could experience the so-called flip-off of taxed/untaxed capital as something unfair, especially when it was gallantly previously taxed capital that was subscribed to the arrangement. In accordance with the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party and the Right, we have come to the conclusion that we can also take out the other proposals in this area, except for the proposal for an increase in the tonnage tax. For us, it is important that the tax system should be involved in keeping up and developing jobs – even before the maritime industry. We are overconfident that these grips will work in real pain. By raising the lower social security fee limit by NOK 4400, the so-called "free card limit" will be increased accordingly, and will now be NOK 22 599. All in all, we thought that the proposal for tax treatment for the next year is a good one, which we fully support. In the budgetary situation we have been in this fall, this is the very best we could achieve. There is no reason to hide that we are content with the arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower.ana.ud126e349	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower.ana.ud126e352	It is to be admitted that with the agreements that have been concluded, we will have some limited influence on the tax regime of the Workers' Party this year. But it might well also have to say about the central government when you look at the difference between what the government proposed and what has been the result of the agreement. The tax scheme is one of the most important distribution policy instruments we have, as well as, of course, providing revenues that we are going to use for many good purposes. It was noted that the Prime Minister was out in the VG on 10 August this year punishing the Norwegian population in general because there were some people who responded to signals that there would be tax increases. He used a comparison. I think it was mentioned that there was a petty debate when discussing relatively small tax increases in Norway and at the same time knew the situation of the children in Sudan at that time. Now the budget agreement has ended with no tax increase. The shipowners may retain their zero-tax regime. The highest revenue does not receive any tax reinforcement, as the Government had proposed, but the compromise ended with a cut in aid – something camouflaged, because money has been moved from the Ministry of Local Affairs to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but a significant cut in aid. Then my question becomes to a representative of a party that is behind the so-called value government: Is the value profile of the Christian People's Party when Sørfonn now says that the arrangement has become good?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower.ana.ud126e361	There were many questions and assessments in the article here. As I said, this tax settlement is the result of a compromise agreement, but we have also found that a majority on Stortinget was against a tax rate of 29 p.m. – it was also the Labour Party against. So to reactions to the tax gain. It was almost as if there had been radical cuts in the aid budget. It's directly wrong. In the case of assistance, it is still held by a layer of 0,88 pst. In addition, Andersen made the "error" to mix the expressions nests and nest layers. We have to distinguish between these two outlines. What's in the fleet tax system, debts taxing in the fleet, in the company and in the company. At the moment when a resource is removed, it shall be taxed. If we can't keep these two details from each other, we get a debate that becomes very difficult to follow, especially for those on the outside. I repeat what I said: Reiarlaga means a lot to our business and to our employment, both along the coast and in other strokes. The result that is now present when it comes to the taxation of passenger ships, we think it should be possible to live with.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower.ana.ud126e370	What I first asked about, and I did not get an answer to, was the distribution policy in this, whether the Christian People's Party is satisfied with the result there, and the starting point was the clear distribution policy signals given by the Prime Minister in August. For example, the tax increase used was compared to the situation in other countries in the world. Sudan was used as one example. When one sees that the sharp opposite profile has been the result, it must be allowed to ask that question. The only reason why the aid rate is maintained at 0.88 p.m. is that the government has done a tactical bookkeeping operation by moving 35 million. kr last round from the Ministry of Local Affairs budget to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget as payment for ODA-approved refugees in Norway. With regard to the shipping tax, it is a little surprising that the representative Sørfonn now claims that it does not matter to the shipowners. We had extensive rounds of this last year, and the Minister of Finance finally had to admit that it could in practice be a tax relief for the shipowners at the tax deferral in the shipping tax. It was clear in the national budget, and we had a lot of rounds on this in the hall. Then my questions become: was the distribution profile good? Will the representative Sørfonn claim that the shipowners as private individuals do not benefit from the shipping tax when, for example, they: through the tax haven we have today, does it achieve a tax deferral of many years? It will be a net gain for the shipowners. Will Sørfonn deny it?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower.ana.ud126e379	First to the distribution profile. I'm a little uncertain about what the questioner meant by the distribution profile, whether it was brittle with the different themes in the budget, or whether there was the distribution profile in the tax regime, which we are discussing today. When it applies to the first, I replied to it in my previous post, so I will now take the distribution profile into account in the tax treatment. Yes, we're happy with the distribution profile that's in this. The proposal submitted by the Government had a very good distribution profile. We still have a good distribution profile in this, I mention, among other things. the special deduction for the elderly has been lifted. The representative Svendsen said well in his post that it was part of the agreement. That's not correct, it was in the proposal from the center party that was submitted earlier. Furthermore, the free-card limit for young people is increasing, and when we look at the results, for example: in the case of a family with two means of income, it will constitute a tax relief of about two means of income. 1500 kroner after the arrangement here. So a little bit about the renting tax. We have this time period of ten years, but ten years is quite a long time. Then there was a direct question of whether not the fleet tax would have anything to say to the skippers. When it comes to the evaluation of the whole fleet tax system, it's very early to do it now, it's probably only been a couple of years. But what is important to distinguish is that the réaar tax system is not a tax on the réaar as a person. When the income is drawn out, it shall be taxed. It must be indisputably established. I hope I've asked most of the questions that were asked here.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower.ana.ud126e390	I had not intended to interfere in the discussion that is now taking place between the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party on the political effects of the budgetary settlement that exists – I have also noticed that the Workers' Party was not a follower of tax and tax increases in the context of this year's budget, at least there were signs that one could have ended there, and that was good! But that wasn't my point, it was one thing I reacted a little to in the representative Sørfonn took up. He claimed that the special deduction for the elderly was not in the agreement. The point is that last autumn the government forced the negotiations between the Advance Party and the Right through a decline, a decrease in the special deduction for the elderly, from 17 640 kroner down to 12 000 kroner – a tax tightening of a thousand kroner. In the course of the year's negotiations, the Progress Party and the Right also demanded that it should go up to NOK 17 640 again. And then the representative Sørfonn said that because this was put into the center's adjusted arrangement, it wasn't part of the deal! The point is that what we agreed on in the end was that we were going to lay down the adjusted layout of the center, which was to come to the right and the progress part to meet, to the bottom. That was what was the basis for the further negotiations, and other adjustments were made, which were also agreed upon. I just want to make it clear that what's in the package is part of the deal. When center e.g. did the increase in the employer's liability period for sick pay fell in his budget, but did it go back in the adjusted one, is it so that it is not part of the package either, or is it part of the package? I would like to clarify that. I have also understood it so that the Progress Party thinks it would be useful to get a few words about this.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower.ana.ud126e397	I'm glad I got that very question, so I'm able to clarify a little bit closer to what I might say a little unpresidually instead. Because it's true, as the representative Burnde here says, that the adjusted arrangement from the center part was at the bottom and formed the basis for the agreement. So in that way, it's quite correct that raising the special discount from NOK 12 000 to NOK 17 640 is part of the deal, or the agreement. But what I was trying to achieve was that, although it has been the subject of previous negotiations, this was something that the centre party had put into the draft budget that was put forward and that was the position of the Committee on Budgets. That's what I tried to say.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03-lower.ana.ud126e404	So the chord change is over. The scheduled time for the morning meeting is also too long. The President will propose that the meeting be suspended and that a new meeting be held in Odelstinget at 1 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
