ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01-lower.ana.ud2579e36	The representative, Bjørn Hernæs, will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01-lower.ana.ud2579e39	On behalf of Per-Kristian Foss, Kristin Krohn Devold and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the law amending the law of 22 May 1902 No. 10, the Criminal Code, on Criminal Lawyers, on the Law amending the Law of 22 May 1981 No. 25, the Criminal Procedures Act, the Law on Law Enforcement and the Law amending the Law of 13 June 1969 No. 26, the Law on damages, on the financial liability of parents and measures to combat violent crime and youth gangs.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01-lower.ana.ud2579e44	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01-lower.ana.ud2579e56	Einar Olav Skogholt has been the rapporteur on this matter in the committee, but when he is in Lagtinget, I will present the Committee's position. The problem of drug abuse is growing in our country, and, along with its scale, the complexity of treatment is increasing, among other things. as a result of the increasing use of drugs in polydrug use. Mixed abuse involving both alcohol and substance sets new requirements for professional competence and differentiation in treatment provision. This places great demands on our drug care. The need for the development of treatment and care services in general is great. The best conditions for treatment are one where there are good treatment services, motivated clients and treatment services that can be offered when the motivation is available. Voluntary treatment must therefore be the rule of treatment. However, what one experiences is that there are situations in which clients are in such a situation that the abuse is so destructive to the individual and has come so far that a difficult person can talk about the individual’s freedom of choice, or that the abuse has such great consequences for himself and others that life and health are at risk, and that society should therefore intervene, for example. the consequences of the inclusion in the Social Services Act of provisions allowing the enforcement of coercive measures against pregnant drug users. As a background to the now promoted proposition, treatment of drug users in Norway is mainly based on volunteering, but in some context it may be necessary to use coercive measures for a limited period of time. The possibility of arresting drug users in institutions with and without consent is also provided for in the Social Services Act. However, the experience of drug services is that the use of coercive measures is to a small extent used, and there is a presumption that it is also not used in situations where it is believed to be necessary. In the context of the welfare notification, the Government was asked to assist in the functioning of the law enforcement provision for drug addicts. Coercive treatment of clients is and should be seen as dramatic and should therefore be followed up with demands for treatment and regulation to ensure the legal protection of individuals. The Committee therefore endorses the proposal for amendments to the Social Services Act requiring municipalities to draw up a plan of action for each person who has been compulsorily forced to do so and to allow them to provide detailed rules on the content and that these should include clarifications on the scope of the plan, the deadline for drawing up the plans, the requirements for user involvement and the responsibilities of the municipalities. Such action plans will highlight the responsibilities of the municipalities for treatment and are assumed to be built up in line with it. Should coercive treatment be effective, it is also important that follow-up and treatment take place without undue delay. It is therefore important that municipalities have qualified institutions that can accept clients referred to on the basis of a coercive decision, so that good treatment can be started immediately. And then it can take too long if social services have to wait to find a place for them only after the social affairs board has taken a position on which institution to use in the particular situation. Approved institutional sites made available to municipalities are therefore necessary for the rapid identification of suitable sites. If these are not present, it is also difficult to apply the coercive provision, even when the need for it is strong. I would like to stress that in the care of drug users, an effort must be made to obtain treatment based on volunteering. However, when it appears necessary to implement the enforcement clause, it is important that the legal certainty of clients is safeguarded. With this I would recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01-lower.ana.ud2579e79	Initially, I would like to claim that voluntary admission to treatment in general provides the best results. This also applies to drug users. However, in certain specific situations, the Progress Party accepts that coercion is used for the treatment of drug users, especially in relation to young people. However, treatment by coercion of drug users must be the exception and not the rule. This also applies to young people. In the present setting, it is open to the social service being obliged to assess the use of coercive measures after being notified by its relatives. Basically, we're sceptical about this new system, especially in the case of adults, authoritative people. In this context, one cannot ignore the fact that the interests of relatives in relation to the imposition requirement may have different motives. We've seen this, not least in the psychiatric health service using so-called tutoring statements. Having said that, however, I would like to stress that there are clearly cases where the relatives legitimately and with good motives want to coerce a family member with major drug problems. In particular, I believe that social services should listen to the relatives much more in terms of children than in terms of adults. With the clarifications I have given here, the Progress Party supports the proposal in Section 6-1. However, the Progress Party is opposed to the repeal of the second paragraph of the current Act § 6-2, as we believe that there should be some sense in imposing coercive measures for the treatment of drug users, the county should also designate a suitable place for such treatment when coercive decisions are taken, as practice is today. Forced insertion of particularly young substance users into storage only without adequate treatment cannot be accepted by the Party of Advancement. The Progress Party therefore believes that a second paragraph of Section 6-2 of the present legislation should be retained until a sufficient number of treatment institutions have been established that can maintain and provide adequate and sound treatment by forced insertion. Accepts an application using coercive measures for drug users without being able to refer them to a proper treatment system, I am afraid that we will soon be back to the past with the old law on prosecuting and creating the problem that no one had served. This is not a desired development from the point of view of the Progress Party. It is high time that the Stortinge were presented with an evaluation of the existing treatment facilities and that institutions and institutions for coercive treatment are not at present adequately equipped, yes, society must ensure that such facilities are provided, so that it is possible to provide drug users with proper, professional treatment, as we aim for it in relation to all other patients. Because we should not underestimate the fact that heavily neglected drug users are sick people who need treatment. If we want to stick to that definition, we've come a long way to meet these people's interests.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01-lower.ana.ud2579e94	It is a pleasure for me to conclude that the attitude of the Social Committee shows that there is a broad consensus about the Government's proposals for changes to social services laws. In several cases, the size has indicated that the enforcement rules of social services laws are not used in all possible cases. The government is now responding to the Storting's wish in the treatment of the welfare message to help ensure that the laws on the treatment of drug addicts can act in such a way that the intentions of the law are fulfilled. I would also like to stress that even if the treatment of drug users should be based as far as possible on the voluntary involvement of the addict, it is necessary in some cases to force people to save lives and to motivate the addict to initiate voluntary treatment. I would like to say that I understand the scepticism expressed by some of the parties in this setting. I myself have this last year been able – in a special way – to visit different treatment arrangements before the drug protects and through it I have met people who themselves have stressed that there was a decision on coercion that lifted exactly them. The main changes proposed in social services laws aim to facilitate the use of coercive provisions in laws against drug users while ensuring the legal security of the residents of institutions. It is the social service that has to assess the relationship of a drug addict that is such that the conditions for the use of coercive measures are met. For those who are dependent, drug abuse is often a major influence. They can easily feel powerless both to the addict and to the aid of the device. For adult addicts, it may be perceived as infringing with interference from the relatives. The proposal that addicts should be entitled to demand an assessment of the use of coercion is intended to last both sides. It gives the social service an obligation to evaluate the relationship of the addict it is in, but at the same time it does not grant the related party rights. This change does not make the conditions for use of the force unchecked. The Social Services service must continue to assess whether these conditions are met and whether coercion is necessary. It can make social services more aware of an abuse at an earlier time, making treatment and rehabilitation easier. In this context, let me also stress that action has been taken to make social services even more motivated and competent to do a better job towards drug users. From March onwards, there is a strengthening plan for the social offices. It is important that the institution to which the abuser comes is a professional and material system to provide proper treatment. In particular, it applies when the addict is placed under coercion. The rule that the county council must approve the specific place of establishment must be seen in the light of this. However, it is also important that the drug user is provided with treatment when he needs it, and that treatment is not excessive. It has been shown that it may be difficult for the social services to find a suitable place to live before decisions are taken in the county, not least because the place then has to be used for a long time. Therefore, the Government has proposed that the condition that the county council approves the individual place of residence should be removed. I think that the intention that the drug addict should receive defensive treatment is sufficient to ensure that all the institutions that accept addicts under social service laws §6-2 and 6-2a are pointed out in advance in the plans of the county council and that the social services assess whether the institution is the property of the specific abuser. In most circumstances, the social services will have a good basis for their assessment because they know the addict. However, I note that the respondent can still determine that the intake will occur in a particular institution if they think there is reason to do so. I note that the Social Committee asks the Government to resolve the need for treatment facilities for drug addicts and the need for an aftercare provision. The Committee also asks the Government to consider a system of prior authorisation of institutions for drug addicts. I am busy with these questions and now understand what the committee is asking for, as a support for work that has already been started. There is a need both for an overview of the available treatment provision and for developing the quality of interventions for drug users both within and outside institutions. Over time, the Ministry has launched several measures to stimulate such development. Support for the seven regional centres of excellence is one of the actions, the action plan for strengthening the social services first line, which is already mentioned, another. Let me also take advantage of the opportunity to inform you that these days I have set down a working group to review the provision of help and treatment during the first half of 1999. It is also in line with what the Committee asks for. This group shall assess the collection of daily drug treatment services for drug users in relation to their needs, assess quality assurance measures and the issue of a public system with the approval of day-to-day institutions and assess the possible need for changes in the current responsibilities and funding system. A lot of good work is being done today by many dedicated and competent people in this area. I'm impressed by the commitment I've met before the fight against drugs, both in the public sector and by the volunteer organizations. There are a lot of people here who year in and year out, in an area where there must be quite clearly a lot of hopebreaks, but where fortunately there are also many who see both hope and individuals. Not least, several of these measures suggest a gain when long-term follow-up is possible, over the years, after a drug addict has been treated. Although a lot of good work is done, there is still a need for further development here, and I see my confidence that this working group can come up with important ideas and suggestions. I want to orientate the story about the result of the work in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01-lower.ana.ud2579e120	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is just about the next day. In doubt, the President will propose that this meeting continue until the current map has been completed. The President would recall that an open hearing was scheduled to begin now, but the President would nevertheless – if Odelstinget agrees – propose that this meeting, as I said, be finished with today's map. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01-lower.ana.ud2579e125	I'll be brief, but I see it as necessary to clarify the joint comments that the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party have here, and the considerations that underlie them. In the joint comments, both batches have stressed the seriousness of coercive action against drug users, and when it does, the basis and assessments for what is being done must be accurate in all ways. It must be ensured that there is no infringement. Thus, the Socialist Left Party, in line with the Progress Party, has reserved itself in relation to the amendment of the second paragraph of Section 6-2 of the Social Services Act. We believe, together with the Progress Party, that today's law on this point must be maintained. What matters is that one should know what kind of institution he/she should be involved in in this case, and that one does not allow for general coercive measures without specifying what kind of treatment he/she should have, so that, in line with the Progress Party, SV will reserve itself in relation to the amendment to the second paragraph of Section 6-2.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01-lower.ana.ud2579e132	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 73]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01-lower.ana.ud2579e146	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after each post, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01-lower.ana.ud2579e151	The proposal now presented to Odelstingen to the law on pension schemes for escorts in the EEAS has not been a major and urgent matter for the Committee. But there is reason to believe that the matter is important for the group concerned. So this day represents, I think, an important milestone for a profession that, on behalf of the country, spends a great deal of its life outside Norway. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been working for several years to improve the situation of the escorts to foreign officials in the field. It has been important to make the best possible arrangements for spouses/partners and children to accompany those who have to serve outside the country. Against this background, the Government set up a working group in 1993 to present a report on how a spouse’s pension could be designed for foreign officials. The proposal contained in the Innst. O. No 6 for 1998-99 is essentially in line with the report drawn up and submitted in 1995. According to the proposal, the demarcated target group to be covered by the scheme is specifically: ‘accompanying regulatoryly-paid officials appointed, paid and seconded by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or NORAD for service at the Norwegian diplomatic or consular station abroad’. The vast majority of spouses and accompanying persons, including foreign service employees, are currently active. Moving abroad will result in most of them having to discontinue their professional careers and reduce their income opportunities and the ability to earn pension points. If the introduction of such a pension scheme can contribute to the greater commitment of spouses and accompanying persons to travel with them in the field of service, it will not only be an important contribution to ensuring the recruitment of the foreign service, but also help to keep families together, if they so wish. I'm not going to go into the details of this scheme, but just say that this is not a pension scheme that someone becomes rich of. This is a relatively low performance which, on an annual basis, exceeds NOK 30000. Full vesting time is 30 years. For a shorter vesting period, the pension will be reduced proportionately. Although the retirement benefit provided is relatively low, it – I believe – will be of great importance to the profession concerned. It is positive that a broad majority, consisting of all parties other than the Advance Party, have been in favour of the proposed scheme. The Progress Party has, in its comments, explained its views on why they oppose the scheme. They have pointed out that there are other groups of workers in society who are also in a working situation that causes considerable disadvantage to their spouse and family. Here is an example of officer in the military, who is also under an order system, and can serve to some extent abroad. The Party considers that these should be treated in the same way as foreign service officials and women in terms of spouses’ benefits that assist them in their working situation. To this is to say that the situation is often such that we cannot solve the problems for everyone at once. And if we have to wait to do something until we can fulfill everyone's wishes, then the problem is that we don't get done anything for anyone. The party further criticises in its observations that the proposed retirement benefits should be non-coordinated and claims that this leads to discrimination against other public pension benefits. Here I wonder whether the representatives of the Progress Party have read the proposition well enough. It is true that this is a net pension scheme and that the pension is not to be coordinated with the social security system or with other pension schemes. However, the very starting point – and explicitly stated in the proposition – is that coordination has been carried out in advance in the calculation of performance, and is in other words at the bottom of the scheme itself. Finally, it is gratifying that we can now complete the process of adopting the proposed law on pension schemes for escorts in the foreign service. I would like to congratulate the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the families on the fact that the matter has been brought to port.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01-lower.ana.ud2579e182	The Progress Party understands the problems that can be attributed to the families of foreign officials and women through the special nature and form of service of the service and through the absence from the home country. As a result, the pattern that has gradually become common in most families, that both spouses have careers and earnings earned by pension funds, is not feasible. Nevertheless, the progress of the project will show that some compensation is granted for disadvantages, including: by having the same remuneration in the course of foreign service as in the course of ministerial service. For tax purposes, they are considered to be residents of the rest of the world, i.e.: that they do not pay municipal taxes. This, of course, is due to the fact that they receive municipal services to a very small extent. During the service abroad, they receive so-called extra supplements, which are intended to cover additional costs arising from the service abroad: what the representation requires, adaptation to different climates, cultural and security conditions, repeated movements and long-term stays abroad. Children’s allowances may be provided under specific conditions, hardship supplements, forms of separation, cover for children’s schooling from 6 to 19 years of age — in some cases beyond 19 years of age — accommodation expenses for children, language education, return journeys under conditions, risk supplements, etc. All this has been adjusted according to the level of costs in the country in which they work. The Progress Party will also point out that there are other groups of workers in society with a working situation that causes significant disadvantages to any spouse and family, for example. officers of the military forces, who are subject to a system of command and who also serve in part beyond the borders of the country. In the opinion of the Progress Party, these should be treated in the same way as foreign service officials and women in the case of spouses who assist the official/woman in the work situation. The Party agrees that, in some positions in the EEAS, the spouse of officials and wives may be required to perform special duties as part of this service. It would therefore be natural, in the opinion of the Progress Party, for wages to be paid where such participation is required. Then the spouse will also earn pension points in the usual way. Such a procedure should be chosen in those positions where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs considers it necessary for the purpose of the service. The proposal provides for the proposed retirement benefits to be uncoordinated. The Progress Party cannot support such discrimination in relation to all other public pension benefits. The Progress Party wants the pension of less than 2G to be uncoordinated, without having been implemented. Unfortunately, today's legislation is so coordinated, so we cannot leave this group uncoordinated. Of course, this should also apply to the group we are discussing today. The Progress Party believes that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should find solutions in line with the above guidelines where they consider it necessary for the purpose of the service and will oppose the proposal for the Act on the Pension Scheme for Foreign Service Accompanying Persons.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01-lower.ana.ud2579e197	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 74]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01-lower.ana.ud2579e258	The Progressive Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01-lower.ana.ud2579e438	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01-lower.ana.ud2579e445	The Act will be sent to the Creation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01-lower.ana.ud2579e460	B and C will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01-lower.ana.ud2579e515	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01-lower.ana.ud2579e526	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Progress Party to vote against this too.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01-lower.ana.ud2579e537	The Act will be sent to the Creation.
