ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e26	It can probably be said both positive and negative things about any government, as well as about the Bondevik government. What I am sure of with this government is that the majority, by recommending the veterinary agreement, has not deliberately intended to impose on the Norwegian people ‘the black-and-white’. I have noticed that the Minister of Health is not at all among those who have taken hers. The Minister of Health holds the position and function that gives him the greatest responsibility for good health development in the Norwegian people. I trust the Minister of Health in the assessments he and his department have given, including the health director's assessment. The Norwegian Medical Association has also recommended the agreement. Countries that now form the EU and the EEA are democratic countries in line with Norway. This means, among other things: that the individual citizen, as much as in Norway, exercises influence through his/her elected representatives. There is no reason to believe that the individual EU citizen is not as concerned about his or her health as the individual Nordic. My impression is that the population of many European countries often has a very conscious relationship with health and diet. In Norway, too long we have underestimated the importance of the main factors for public health. Previously, the main challenge was infectious diseases. Now it's lifestyle disease. Important examples of this are cardiovascular diseases and various cancers. The risk factors behind these diseases include, inter alia: smoking and poor diet and exercise habits. In the cancer plan, i.e. NOU 1997:20, it was estimated from the highest professional level that approx. 35 pst. due to cancer cases. diet factors, i.e. 30 pst. due to smoking and the rest for other reasons. In the last issue of the British Medical Journal, a scientific article concluded that up to 80 pst. changes in diet could have been avoided by intestinal and breast cancer cases. Here I would like to remind you that approx. Every year 10,000 people in Norway die from cancer. So I'm just mentioning that we Nordics are now on the top of Europe as far as the percentage of the population who smokes is concerned. Exercise is an extremely important factor in reducing the risk of many diseases. I have chosen to mention these examples in order to stress that those who choose to make a yes to the veterinary agreement as a public health problem have totally derailed the debate on the most important thing. Through the negotiated agreement and through improved national control and monitoring programmes, we have secured a control regime that provides consumers with at least as good food security as before. There is also reason to stress that EU control standards are as stringent as Norwegian ones. In addition, public health issues have received a very high level of attention in the EU Treaty, as also the representative Nybakk mentioned in his statement. In particular, public health and consumer protection were improved in the Amsterdam Treaty, which will probably enter into force in spring 1999. Recently, the European Commission presented its Consumer Policy Action Programme for 1999-2001, one of three key issues being a high level of health and safety for consumers, such as: developing guidelines on how to implement the precautionary principle in relation to food and product safety. I think the Norwegian people have nothing to fear at all when the veterinary agreement is soon in place. As a representative of the largest fishing community in Norway, More and Romesdal, I would like to commend the Minister for Fisheries for his unsurprisingly insightful approach, among other things. in newspaper articles, have explained the effect on fisheries of saying no to the agreement. It is not often that he, as Minister for Fisheries, gets praise from our country, but in this case he deserves it. The honesty and honesty that he has shown, certainly not at personal cost in relation to many of his party cases, is vital in obtaining facts about the agreement, and is therefore of great importance to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e54	After the trust statement that became part of the health minister in the last speech, it is probably not more than reasonable that he should explain what assessments he has made as a health minister on this matter. My starting point is the established objectives of Norwegian food and nutrition policy. This implies objectives of ensuring a proper diet for the population in order to reduce the extent of dietary health damage in the population. In this context, I cannot fail to point out the importance of international cooperation in order to achieve the objectives of food and nutrition policy, and that the objective of protecting public health must also be promoted through decisions in international bodies. Many hundred years of history have taught us that borders are no natural barrier to infectious agents. Despite significant hygienic progress, disease caused by pathogens seems to be a growing international problem. According to the World Health Organisation, this is in addition to international travel and trade in food bacteria’ adaptability and changes in food production. In addition, an increased proportion of elderly and immunocompromised people in society and new housing patterns and consumer habits lead to more cases of such diseases. Norway is in a favourable situation as regards the presence of most foodborne diseases. This situation we want to maintain. In this context, it is important to point out that the extension of the EEA Agreement does not concern the volume of imports, which is not expected to increase as a result of this extension. When border controls fall away, it is important to point out, from a health point of view, that Norway has full freedom of action to obtain information on the actual quality of the goods on arrival. The requirement for importers to register and notify food surveillance 24 hours before the arrival of the goods is the main possibility of continuing to pursue restrictive policies On this basis, the authorities will be able to carry out random checks or full checks on the detention of the goods in case of suspicion of non-compliance with the rules. In addition, the veterinary agreement does not amend food law itself so that products considered to be harmful or not in conformity with the rules may continue to be prohibited. Harmful goods may be seized and, if a Norwegian importer operates in a hazardous manner, all or part of the establishment may be closed. I would also like to stress the importance of gradually strengthening the EU's own legislation on health and hygiene requirements in order to ensure food safety and better animal health. In the event of a risk to public or animal health, Norway may apply the safeguard clause of the EEA Agreement and adopt unilateral decisions which may result in a cessation of trade when deemed necessary. Where analysis is suspected to reveal that the food may be harmful to health, it will not be possible to place the food on the market until the results are available. Food surveillance by the State wishes to exercise this possibility strictly. A thorough health evaluation of the consequences of any extension has been provided. In 1997, the Scientific Committee of the State Food Safety Authority, which has wide competence in the areas covered, was asked to assess the health consequences of the veterinary agreement. The Committee did not have any restrictions on the measures that they could propose. Several proposals for compensatory measures were made to ensure safe food. These proposals were largely related to the responsibilities of health authorities. In this context, health authorities have developed a number of strategies to meet the future challenges. This applies, inter alia, to: strengthening the epidemiological preparedness, strengthening surveillance of food-borne pathogens, increasing efforts to detect, warn, clear and stop outbreaks of disease in the population and strengthening epidemiological research and development tasks. At the same time, I would like to mention that there is a very good cooperation between the health care, food and veterinary institutions. This cooperation is now strengthened and consolidated in an interaction that will improve overall our ability to compensate for an increased infectious pressure associated with freeing international trade in food and live animals. In the light of the proposed compensatory measures, the Scientific Committee of the State Food Safety Authority has considered the measures to be satisfactory. This is also the position of the State Institute for Public Health and the State Health Authority, and this is what I am building my assessment as a specialist council. The process of elucidating the health consequences of the agreement has been thoroughly implemented. On this basis, I consider the situation so that the proposed amendment to Annex I to the EEA Agreement is fully acceptable from a health point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e71	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e74	As a specialist council, the Højbräten has made a very solid impression both in his speech today and not least in the hearing, and his thorough review of the health measures is also in stark contrast to the opinions of some of the others who were in the hearing, which referred to the adoption of the veterinary agreement as a gamble with public health. It is true that there is an increasing consumer awareness in Norway and in Europe. We're getting more and more crooked about quality, and we're very concerned that the food we pick from the shelves on the supermarket is really controlled and has a proper quality. Norway has long had a high standard of food control and has had small incidences of foodborne diseases. In the EU, food safety is now included in the list of priority areas and legislation is to be further strengthened. It is true, as the Council of State has stated, that both increased travel and trade in biological material increase the risk of foodborne diseases. ‘Margins are no natural barrier to infectious agents’ said the Council of State. In this context, how does the Council of State, which also represents the main party of the Government, the new control regime of the veterinary agreement, also consider, in the light of the so-called professional opinions of a number of bodies in this matter, both by the Veterinary Association and by the Consumer Council, that it is to gamble with peoples' pleasure to adopt this agreement tonight?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e85	The trade and handling of food is always associated with a certain risk and those who wish to make it risk-free make a serious misassessment. The question arises as to the extent to which measures and arrangements are in place to ensure that risks are acceptable and that there is a proper regime. On this issue, I have had to build on the thorough assessments carried out in the Scientific Committee on Food Safety, in the Health Authority and in the State Institute for Public Health, which have all come to the conclusion that the agreement, in conjunction with the ever-long series of measures introduced to meet this situation, presents us with an acceptable and sound situation. My conclusion is quite clear that this is by no means a gambler with popular greetings. It would not have been possible for me to stand upright and recommend such an agreement if I had a lack of suspicion that this would be the case. I believe that there is a solid professional basis for recommending the agreement on the basis I mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e90	I want to return to the solid professional basis, as the Council of State said in response to the previous line. During the hearings held by the Foreign Affairs Committee/Nutrition Committee, it was clarified that the veterinary association and the veterinarians had a very different view of this agreement from that of, among others. the Committee of Experts. Among other things, Professor Per Einar Granum of the Veterinary College said in the hearing to justify why there was a difference in these points of view: ‘The Norwegian medical environment almost does not know what diarrhoea diseases are, for most of those we have in Norway — two thirds of them that we have documented in Norway — are diseases where you are placed in the toilet while you are ill, but get relatively fresh afterwards.’ And he goes on to say, ‘The medical microbiology environment in Norway is in fact relatively weak and low in relation to the veterinary microbiological environment.’ What I'm asking is whether the Council of State can assess whether that is the way it has been claimed by the Professor of Veterinary College, that it is actually a weaker medical and microbiological environment that has assessed positive aspects of the measures promoted than the environment that has negative objections to the veterinary agreement and that is represented by those bodies that primarily work with veterinary conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e111	In the hearing, this question was raised, and was highlighted, among other things. by representatives of the medical profession, the supervisory authorities of the Health Authority of the Health Director and of the Director of the State Institute for Public Health, who are just representing such a medical microbiological environment. I cannot agree with the characteristics given by the Veterinary Association of the Medical Sciences in Norway. I want to characterize it as relatively bold statements, for which I do not find the basis, and in particular I think it is strange that veterinary representatives express such a conviction about the insight of an entire medical profession into gastrointestinal diseases. There was also a sharp distance from that during the consultation of the trade union representatives who were in this way. Thus, it has not been said that the Norwegian professional community could not be stronger and better in this area, but I think all parties will benefit from meeting with mutual respect and see that both veterinary medicine and human medicine are actually needed in order to ensure safe food and to ensure good public health in nutrition.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e116	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e121	When we look back at the extensive debate and commitment to the veterinary agreement, there are three things we should stick to. It concerns sovereignty, the possibilities of democracy and political credibility. The majority who, unfortunately, are likely to ensure that we get the veterinary agreement, at the same time, ensure that we reduce our sovereignty in an important area. We're not giving up our own competence to manage public and animal health, but we're restricting it. We are leaving a control system that we ourselves have decided, and we are introducing a system that requires us to ask Brussels first. We go from a situation of real freedom of action to a situation where we have to ask for law. Such a restriction of freedom of action is serious and should only be imposed if there were strong technical and political arguments behind it. Is it that our border controls are not working, and that we are looking for something that can better ensure health in cross-border trade? No, it's not like that. It is the EU area with its rules that deal with animal and public health problems. Most people therefore have no understanding that schemes that prove to be useful should be replaced with rules that have proved not to work as well. This case shows that the Storting is in serious contempt with the public opinion outside. It may also occasionally be the case in smaller cases, but the veterinary agreement is a very special matter. After the EU vote, there is probably no issue that has engaged so strongly. However, unlike the EU question, almost no one has stood up to defend the content of the agreement, and that is understandable. The veterinary agreement has been discussed in any association, on street corners, around the dinner table and in the newspaper columns. People understand what this is about, and when polls ask, about two thirds of the population are opposed. People should also learn from the debate on the veterinary agreement. People have learned that it is not useful to engage, and the most awake have learned that politics is being created by some dressed gentlemen in the U.D., in the N.O., and at some negotiating meetings in Brussels. The confidence of our people's government is weakened. If anyone in this Chamber in the future regrets a labyrinth of our democratic institutions, there is reason to remind them of what the veterinary agreement showed: a large majority in clear agreement with the people.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e134	If this agreement is accepted, the EEA Agreement will be extended to cover the entire EU veterinary legislation, as negotiated by the Labour Party Government in 1997. It seems that harmonisation with the EU was paramount. So it was not helpful that we also harmonised with the animal diseases that the EU has. It may be enough to mention jealousy, swine fever and foot-and-mouth disease. With this, we can actively join in and scrape away the competitive advantages that Norwegian food production has had and that many envy us. This applies much more than to fish. To date, we have had a good overview of the animal production chain in Norway. Norwegian livestock farming has been robust against the introduction of contamination, with small units scattered around the country. It would be difficult to get the same overview if one were to replace this "box-to-table" listing with certificates and certificates from other and partially unknown areas and spot tests on the final product. In practice, such certificates seem to be of little trust. In a study carried out by the Swedish Food Agency, it appeared that there were salmonella in 12 out of 57 batches from other EU countries. In all 12 it followed with a certificate that said the meat was tested for salmonella. An NTB message in the fall said that the meat inspection at the berth in Oslo had so far this year rejected nine batches of meat due to salmonella. Of these, seven were from EU countries. Elles says the State Health Inspectorate in the Hearing Officers: «When the check is transferred to random samples at retail level, the product may have been traded several days before the test response is available and any withdrawal may occur.» So the food can be eaten. Otherwise, one of the major concerns of health authorities is the increasing presence of antibiotic resistance, with the consequences it may have. Diseases that were previously easy to treat can be very serious. Similarly, we know that the results can be serious when it comes to hormonal supplements and other substances in the food. I am very busy by the user's interests in this. And the leader of the Consumer Council, Anne Lise Bakken, says under the open hearing: ‘But we have always said that perhaps ideally further measures should have been added to, and not instead, the control regime that we already have. The Consumer Council believes that this is a great opportunity. In a different context, I have described this as being old with public health, because it does not know what consequences this will have for Norway.’ So this was said by a former Labour Party Council and a bigotry representative.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e160	I understand that the forces that want Norway to become a member of the EU have pressed for the adoption of an extension of the EEA Agreement. Although the Norwegian people said no to the EU in the 1994 referendum, attempts are being made to link Norway so close to the EU that we will eventually have no alternative but to become a member. The EEA Agreement itself requires Norway to accept EU legislation and laws in many areas without real influence. By extending the agreement, in this process through the veterinary agreement, we will further weaken our own status. We know that the Schengen Agreement will be next round, and with it we will have even closer integration with the European Union. If we are also going to stick to the euro, as many are now calling for, so that we have to pursue a financial and monetary policy similar to that of the European Union, we have come a long way towards full membership. If the forces that want EU membership are put into effect for their strategy of ever closer association with the EU, we will eventually become an EU member of the benefit, but not in the name. Then, in my opinion, there is no alternative but full membership. Thus, the Norwegian people's no-one to the EU is set aside without the people having the opportunity to express their opinion on it. This is an important reason why I oppose the veterinary agreement. The agreement as it now exists is probably as good as we can get, but we give sovereignty to the EU. It is also a cross of thought that the Norwegian Veterinary Association, the Norwegian Farmers' Association, the Norwegian Farmers' Association and the Consumer Council warn against the agreement. Why do they do that? Is it because they have their own interests in the matter, or is it because they believe the agreement is bad for Norwegian public and animal health? I can't see that they have any other interest in going against this agreement than that they want food and animal health security, and that they want us to be able to decide for ourselves how we want to secure it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e171	I cannot allow myself to be represented in this debate just through the quotations of others from my speeches in the debate on 23 January 1997. However, the arguments from then on are equally sustainable. The same is true of the large number that that day said no to continue the existing veterinary checks. The government has taken the consequences of that. It has made a proposal in line with the majority of the population, and the Government's proposal for national control measures is so good that the heavy trade unions now support the Government's proposals. Yes, it is even claimed that the new control measures are better than the current ones. So the conclusion from the professional environments is now a different one. It must mean that the Government’s proposal for national measures compensates for the loss of border control in a satisfactory and reassuring manner. It's not just a matter of where the control is carried out, but also a question of how good it is, what content we are willing to give it. Perhaps the most important argument for border control, the time factor, that control at the reception site could come after the food has been eaten, would, in my view, be met relatively quickly by new techniques for detecting genetic material from the contaminants. There are obviously some who find it useful to give the impression that Norway is currently in an almost hermetically closed state, with limits that effectively shut down the infectious agents out, but if we lift the border control, spoiled food will flood across the country and only be controlled after we have eaten the food and become ill by it. It's not like that. Today's check is also a random check. Therefore, I am fundamentally sceptical about opinion polls based on a question where manufacturing becomes a choice between current border control and market sampling without mentioning that the current control is also a random check. This is not serious and, in my view, is misleading. I have previously placed considerable emphasis on the professional assessments in my assessment of the veterinary border controls. I still do, and on that basis I will support the Government's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e182	There is a strong commitment among consumers in this matter. People will not be at risk of increased infection pressures, as the new control regime may lead to, because of the strict border rules in Norway, being replaced by control measures considered risky by the majority of professionals. The inter-political action Safe Food embraces individuals, groups and organisations from all over the country. In addition, we have been sent a number of letters and appeals from municipalities, organisations and individuals. This has to make an impression. Furthermore, the Consumer Council is strongly warned against the weakening of veterinary border controls. The new system is based on certification and documentation from the country of dispatch. The results of Sweden, referred to in the proposal, reveal a worryingly high proportion of errors and deficiencies in such certification. This weakens the credibility of the EU's control system, as I see it. Norway has a very good food quality and a very poor level of foodborne diseases compared to other European countries. The State Health Authority says this, among other things. as in its opinion on the matter: ‘Although the quantity of products imported would not increase significantly, we fear that an extension of Annex I to the EEA Agreement would increase the pressure on Norway due to the reduction of veterinary border controls.’ The State Health Authority is only one of many professional bodies which strongly warns Stortinget against submitting its proposal. I have now mentioned the checkpoint for food imports. An equally important area is the quarantine provisions for live animals, which will change dramatically. According to the veterinary expertise, the absence of quarantine would make it difficult to detect disease with a long incubation period, because the isolation period is too short. The cross-border trade in live animals is negligible in relation to the trade in food of animal origin. Therefore, it should not have any commercial policy significance if we were given the opportunity to maintain a border control with established strict quarantine rules for the introduction of live animals. This concerns the possibility of providing total protection at a reasonable price in relation to the damage caused by outbreaks of emerging diseases. There must be a credibility problem for the bulk of the population to be in favour of the change in border control when looking back at what the majority concluded in the Inst. S. No 248 for 1991-92, where it was said that Norway had been granted permanent derogations from EU legislation in relation to veterinary and plant health conditions in the EEA Agreement, which gives Norway the right to maintain national provisions as a safeguard measure against the risk of infection resulting from trade in certain animal species and products. The Government of Brundtland assessed the Norwegian border control and the possibility of quarantine of animals and consignments as ‘determining for the maintenance of our favourable animal health conditions’. But it was then and not now. A positive element shall be drawn from the proposition, namely that an overall assessment of the new legislation and the infectiveness situation shall be presented together with proposals for amendments which may be necessary. I am happy for this and hope that it gets full support.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e206	I choose to make the conclusion first. From the comments in the matter during the discussion in the Business Committee, it appears that I agree with the views which conclude that, after an overall assessment, it is right to oppose the agreement. We know that the political background for the case is a large number from 1997. This bulk of population gave clear signals to the government regardless of which government is in place, and these signals, of course, have been loyally followed up by the government through negotiations and now the existing agreement that is under consideration. As usual, a thorough, well-founded work has been done by the Minister of Agriculture in particular and the Government in general. But despite that, I come to the conclusion that it is right to oppose the agreement as it exists. As you know, the rest of the Left will vote in favour of the agreement. The main justification lies in the fact that Norway is in a unique situation as regards animal health and food safety and also the risk of infection. For me, it is an overall objective that we retain these positive elements for the Norwegian population and future generations. In my view, by adopting EU legislation on the control of imports of live animals and foodstuffs, we will lose the necessary flexibility and freedom of action to adapt controls and measures in Norway against infectious pressures arising from imports from other areas. That flexibility I think it's incredibly important to be in charge. One doesn't know what situations might arise. At my discretion, the compensatory control measures are not enough for me to be sure that they will work, and then, in order to be a leader, I have to oppose the agreement. So to the area of fish, which seems to be an important argument for Norway to be in favour of EU legislation. The claim that stepping up border controls on fish to EU countries may lead to considerable delays and increased costs. Whether there are different opinions and disagreements. In any case, it must be balanced against the fact that if one adopts an extension of the EEA Agreement, other countries, including Russia, will become a third country, with the consequences and requirements for monitoring that would result. Time does not allow me to go further into that argument, but it is well known. Based on an overall assessment, I will vote against the agreement. It is both in terms of its content, its consequences, as I see it, and in terms of my personal political credibility.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e221	This debate has clarified that the Government is behind the agreement, and they recommend it. All three specialist councils and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have made this quite clear to the Stortinget in a rather liberating, clear way. Now it's not so strange that you've been a little insecure. Some of the posts held here by members of the government parties, and some of the positions on this agreement that emerged just over a year and a half ago, show that no such agreement was desired. Now, of course, the government will try to give the impression that what's being presented is better than what they took a long time ago. This is politics, said the Minister of Foreign Affairs earlier, and it is like this in the Chamber that from time to time a little policy is involved in the debate. What I think we have been given during this day is that the agreement on which the current government took over was continued without any change. It is the agreement that is now under discussion here in the Chamber. Furthermore, apart from the zoonoses unit, as I think it is very good that this government has come forward, all national measures were completed. So it is not that the government, when it did not reach another agreement that it had hoped, created a number of new national measures to compensate for this. Those measures were already in place from the previous government. Finally, as I understand it, the safeguard clause should be used actively and effectively, which is also a continuation of the policy pursued earlier. Now I see that Tor Nymo is not in the hall, but when I meet him, I'll tell him that to present this as dramatic as he did is a little strange. For four of his party state councils in the Government did not depart from this agreement when it was signed in the summer of 1998. They took a distance from it and signed it at the moment the matter was to be sent to Stortinget. It is surprising that they did not see the misery that Nymo described when the agreement was signed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e234	An important argument for the present proposal is that the agreement is alleged to be better than the current system with regard to the possibility of preventing infection into the country. That's good, but this says little about what opportunities we have within today's system of improvement, without having to give up powers to the EU. My view is that we could take advantage of today's system and get a better infectious regime. The price of the infection rate that we're getting in the future, taking into account the overall level of trade agreement, is higher than with today's system. The EEA Agreement is dynamic, and in the extension of the EEA Agreement there is a distinct dynamic towards a higher vector pressure that will only require more expensive compensatory measures. Here I can refer to the WTO Agreement and to the forthcoming WTO negotiations and the hammering of Norwegian customs duties by strong trade and food interests. In the balance between export interests and trade liberalisation on the one hand and consumer interests and the desire to safeguard the environment and health on the other hand, I believe that the majority of the population made a major step in the wrong direction in January 1997. The Community is being burdened with increased costs and health risks to reduce its costs and its commercial disadvantages, in particular salmon farmers. This is a good day especially for farmers’ lobbyists, but there is also an opportunity to point out that Norway lacks a popular and strong consumer organisation with political weight and credibility. The government has made its best out of a very bad starting point. For me, the principle of this matter becomes so important that, despite a good work by the government of Bondevik, I will vote against you. Out of respect for the referendum, where this issue was one of the most sensitive, I also believe it is important that a critical view of the agreement is expressed in the vote. The EU romanists won a strategic victory in January 1997. For me, it is a crossroads that the majority of the population does not take sufficient account of the referendum on membership on this issue and that one of them has accepted the principle that fish exports interests are exchanged for the national environmental and health interests of consumers and against an increased risk of loss of national competitive advantage in the agricultural industry, namely a high veterinary standard. I therefore believe that the majority of the population has opted for an expensive solution in the long term, both economically and politically.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e247	The experts tell us that the pressure from food will increase in the future. Despite the good and strongly compensatory measures taken by the Government in the veterinary agreements, which I am very pleased with since the agreements are signed, more open borders will, however, increase rather than reduce the risk of such an infectious pressure. Europe has problems – major problems. England was shut down because of herding, thousands of cows were slaughtered, but it was not sufficient. Now, Portugal and South France are infected by cow disease. It costs enormously and is actually an environmental disaster. Food-borne infections and diseases that spread from animals to humans, known as zoonoses, are a far greater problem in the EU than in Norway. In fact, we have a frequency of infection of 10-20 pst. Of the rest of Europe, and it's a good thing that it's hard to hold on to what you're adopting here today. Everything is not entirely dependent on this appointment. That trade is limited to Norway today, and the compensatory measures will actually compensate. But open borders for trade in live animals and animal food between countries, and in fact also between regions, I think is the wrong way to go. That is why I am voting against Annex I of the agreement today. I am not alone in saying that the way in which a person handles and deals with live animals and animal products in the EU is alarming. The UN Food and Agriculture Organisation, FAO, points out that of the last 15 animal epidemics, nine have emerged in the EU, i.e. in one of the richest regions in the world, where one should have more control. I believe that the future failure of a global globalisation will limit the trade in certain foods due to the pressure of infection. The pre-war principle is simpler and cheaper than fighting dangerous animal epidemics. I would like to add that the brand scheme that the Council of State Kåre Gjønnes did well for earlier in this debate is very good and will be a means of giving consumers power and control over their own health. I am a coastal woman and therefore very busy with both fishing and fishing exports. A no to the agreements will increase control frequency requirements for exports. It's essentially negative. But now it is – at least on Svinesund – that we already meet this requirement and more than that. One is already controlling over 50 pst. of the fishing trailers. One carries out all the physical checks with the necessary samples that the EU may require. It takes no longer today than the customs clearance in all circumstances will take for the driver. As a result, my assessment is that opening up borders for animal products and rejecting the precautionary principle is the wrong way to go into a world where food infection is an increasing problem. Finally, as an advocacy to Fridtjof Frank Gundersen's previous post, I would like to point out that in the Christian People's Party, it is such a thank you that you can stand there without it being in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e262	The debate on the veterinary agreement has been very marked by horror propaganda, inaccuracy and exaggeration. Although it is important in a democracy that everyone should get away with their views, it is far from everyone who is being heard. Many specialists and press groups have only to note that the productions that have been brought to the market have not affected the assessment capacity of the staging representatives. Arguments not won by hearing. In this regard, I would quote Professor Kaare Norum from the open hearing here in the house on 30 November: ‘...I really don’t think you’re supposed to use expressions like ‘gamble with people’s health’ and ‘the public health principle as a whole’ when talking about these things, because there’s much more important things in nutrition that have to do with public health. Of course, there may be an increased morbidity of infectious diseases when infectious diseases come in, but seen in relation to our major health problems, the venerable assembly on the other side of the table has far more important tasks to do than they do today." The professor’s nutritional physiological considerations about using more fish, fruit, vegetables and cereal products in the diet will have a far greater impact on public health than the veterinary agreement we are debating today. It must be clear that the globalisation process, where people move over long distances, also poses a risk of spread of infection and disease. But the veterinary agreement does not regulate these matters. The risk of transmission also increases with people's business and holiday trips to remote areas and the volume of trade in meat and live animals. However, the revised EEA Agreement does not add up to changes in terms of quantities compared to the current agreement. A new control system in which border controls are made redundant and replaced by close controls at the production site and reinforced control of food in shops and in food establishments has its advantages. If a consumer gets sick from food purchased in a grocery store, it helps little if the control of the food at the border showed that the food was of sufficient quality. Opinion polls show that a large majority of Norwegian people oppose the removal of border controls on imported meat. To that is to say that the double morals of the North know no bounds. The same people who say they're afraid of losing national control of the veterinary control run giant meat mountains across the Svinesund Bridge every day. The electoral speeds that never before cross the border to mix in EU pig-friendly meat. In such a situation, it is a matter of keeping your head cold and not letting decisions be shaped by emotions, but common sense.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e280	There is agreement in the Norwegian trade union community that the infection pressure against Norwegian consumers will increase as imports of animals and animal products progress. The debate has also shown that no one will challenge such an obvious truth. At the same time, we know that world trade in this area is developing rapidly. It's in the cards. The answer to such a development should be stronger and not weaker border control. It is also indisputable. No one can get away from it. But this conflict, this problem,'resolves' representatives from the majority simply by declaring that the new EEA regime is at least as good as the old one, and actually better than what we have today. It is alarming, especially because it signals that a plural no insists on defending an ever-increasing import of animals and animal products. True, I had few illusions that the plurality would back off in the debate on the control regime, but I had expected that the spokespersons of this large flock would at least have insisted that the new control arrangements are and become compensatory and not adequate, and that next time we could expect that the plurals would see with more critical eyes the rising world trade in food. We haven't been given the slightest hint today that such a process of thinking has been rooted in the mass plural. There's really a reason to make a difference. And then one more thing. It was said by the representative Steensnæs here today - as I understand him - that in this situation there is no talk of selling out people's greetings to fish. Yes, sir. But both here in the house and especially between people there's a lot of doubt about that point. What should in any case be beyond doubt is that the majority will expand the EEA Agreement and thus further increase the democratic deficit, which is already large enough. And I can't understand that it can be right to sell out pieces of the power that lies in parliamentary assemblies, or as it happens here, put it out of function for an undefined period, if the purpose is never so good. The European Union and the EEA, and for that part also the OECD, and I am thinking in particular of the MAI, and the World Trade Organisation, are just saying that economic interests prevail over the democratic dimension. Close attention to the fact that the people's representatives are being played on a case-by-case basis in the EU or outside the EU beyond the sideline will be disastrous in the long run. As Europeans – and I'm going under it – we have a shared responsibility to reverse these developments and not take several steps, small or large, in the wrong direction. This is, to me, a main argument to vote against the veterinary agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e289	There will be a cross of ideas for me when some in this Chamber claim that the EU's control of fish, as it has been said, conflicts with the WTO, and that the same representatives claim that our border control, which we may need to strengthen and maintain from what we have today, should be legal vis-à-vis the WTO. Here I think it's a contradiction, and those who use this kind of argument should think about it again, if that's people's information we're doing in relation to the debate we're having in the people. I am pleased with popular commitment, but it is also a political responsibility to contribute to the debate taking place on proper premises. Belgian blue has become the very symbol of this debate, and you refer to the pictures of these animals, which neither of us likes, and say that this is going to be the situation with a new veterinary agreement. That's not true, and those who market these points of view know that. And that's when I'm in doubt about the public exposure happening on the assumption that one contributes to information about what we're really talking about. Then there's talk of killing animals. We have probably also had situations in Norway where we have had to do the same to get the situation under control. Then I want to give a little feedback to the rapporteur, who I think has given a very real presentation of this matter – about what was and what is, to re-use that debate. What is a reality is that some professional communities have previously expressed themselves critically and have said that they are opposed, but have later said that with the measures that have been put in place, this is acceptable. I also think that those who take part in the debate here today, and refer to these professional communities, should refer to the last opinions, and not to the earlier ones, if it is to be a real and proper debate. So I just want to point out that the food is eaten and digested before control, has been an important argument. However, what is being imported today from Sweden and Finland is not at all controlled. It eats and eats, and we live with it. There we also have to adapt the argument from an actual situation to what is going to be the situation, if we are to drive public information in relation to the debate we have around us. And if anyone's worried about buying imported food, it's actually an opportunity to go to the store and choose Norwegian. The quality of Norwegian agricultural production comes through the existing labelling schemes, which allows one to choose what is safe, in the situation that we will now have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e302	I had initially not intended to speak in this debate, but throughout the day I have listened with great interest both to the case rapporteur, whom I, like the Minister of Agriculture, seem to have presented in a very good way to the Storting, and to those who are sceptical and clear against this agreement. This has been a difficult process, not only within the Government and in the government parties. There's a lot of talk that there's been a difficult process far into other parties as well. And for my own part, I have to admit that it has not been an easy way to arrive at the decision that I have made. I want to signal that it is actually a majority of the government parties that support the Government's proposals as they exist. I'm one of those people who's going to do it. There are some people who have tried to create the impression that the Government with open eyes is going into a situation where you sell public health, as expressed here. And there's some kind of argument that I think there's reason to reject. Of course, the government does not. It does not submit an agreement which it considers will not safeguard public and animal health while ensuring the necessary export opportunities and rights for a large industry such as the fishing industry. But when I sit and hear, there's one question that keeps coming back to me. For once I would like to agree with the representative Øystein Hedstrom. It's not often I've been before – and it probably won't be that often below either. But he raises a thought-provoking problem in relation to those who, on a principle basis, fear public health from the system it is now put up to, namely that we are actually taking about as much uncontrolled food today – especially meat – across the Norwegian border, as we do through formal arrangements. That food isn't being controlled, so we don't get sick of it. The Government is now putting forward a system of significant compensatory measures and control measures. What is the reason why we're going to get sick of that food? And I find it very difficult to understand that the fear that is now expressed must not have the consequence that those who, on a very fundamental basis, go against the system to which it is now added, must also do something in relation to the food that is consumed above the limits of quota trading, which is uncontrolled, and which is deleted is not risk-free. It has to be a natural consequence of that argument as far as I can see. I want to support and recommend the Government's arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e321	I have followed the debate throughout the day with great interest, and after all these hours of debate, most of it has been said. The government has done a solid and good job on the basis of the mission that the majority of the population gave to the Government, and the control measures are undoubtedly good. There are many considerations that need to be balanced and sought in the best way possible. In addition, different parties and different politicians tend to have different objectives with the policies pursued. In this way, it's hard to claim that one position is right and one is wrong. Based on an overall assessment, I now have a country in which I want to take the most account of the consumer aspect and maintain the var-principle. That is why I will also go against you in the setting. At the same time, I recognise what will be the outcome in the case. I want to say that there is something positive about the debate that has been taking place, not only here in the Chamber, but also in the media for a long time. And it's that we've been given the seriousness of the danger of infection through animals and animal products, and at the same time the importance of having good protection and control measures. And now that this agreement is, in all probability, adopted, I hope that not only we politicians are still aware of this, but also the importers, farmers and the even consumer remember this when a demand for the different products and goods.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e332	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1432]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e346	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1433]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e360	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e369	I should probably start my article in this matter with a strofe from «We are walking with eagerness to do so». It sounds like: ‘Let’s go wherever it wants, we walk along with songs and games.’ But it's probably not that simple. The government has invited the Stortinget to make a recording – or maybe I should say a clear advice – on how the continuation of Lofoten's mainland connection should proceed, and the options are up to several. Hopefully, the government will have a clear marshall when the vote is over tonight – also from the government parties with a slightly different approach. This road has caused the greatest public engagement I've experienced in my years in the committee, but it's also an old road cause. It is actually 65 years since the connection was made as a road requirement. I stand here with a copy of the Lofot post of 17 June 1933, and I want to take a few quotes from this article. The first one is: «It is noted that a lot of money is needed to build roads, and all requirements cannot be met in a reasonable future. But here it is to be noted that large parts of the Lofot road that remain should have been built a long time ago compared to road construction elsewhere in the country." The second quote reads: «We have finally come to the point where there is a real consensus in the Lofoten on the transit route. In fact, there are a few people here who, for their own gain, are not very happy with a road, ferry and bridge connection between the islands, but these men make up almost a hundred per thousand of the population.’ It was that time. Since then, some roads have been built, and some bridges have been built. Now the final stage remains. The Committee on Transport has been on an inspection in the area on several occasions over the years. It also happened this time. The Committee was met with great media interest and great public commitment. I will give tribute to the members of the Committee for a quick procedure when the party groups had first made an opinion on the continuation of the project. This is why it was possible to complete this case in Stortinget before Christmas. Hopefully, there will be a clear recommendation on the matter from Stortinget's side when we end the meeting tonight, i.e. Which trajectory to base on in the further work on the mainland Lofoten connection, even though we will vote on several alternatives before we are in the goal. Already during the treatment of Norwegian road and road traffic plans for 1990-93, the Stortinget stated that Lofoten’s continental link would follow the so-called northern trajectory. In 1995, the Stortinget went in to complement the impact assessment of the northern trajectory with an assessment of the Hadself-earth tunnel. It was then assumed that the completion of Lofast would not be delayed, and in parallel the project after the north trasé would be completed to the east of the Raftsundet. The continuation of the project is within Norwegian road and road transport plans for 1998-2007. It was assumed in the Roadmap that the costs of the continuation were very uncertain. The Committee has now noted that the costs of some of the options are higher than those foreseen in the Roadmap. The Nordic county has assessed the impact assessment in the light of its previous decisions, and the majority of the case did not find a basis for changing the previous view that the Lofoten must have its mainland link and link to the E6 after the north trasé. The majority also assumed that the environmental impacts of this option are significant but acceptable and that sub-alternatives C-U were prioritised over C. The municipalities and regions of Lofoten, Ofoten and Süd-Troms, as well as large sections of the business community in these areas, recommend that the northern trasé be chosen as an alternative to the continuation. On the other hand, government authorities recommend the Hadselfjord option – mainly from an environmental point of view. Road authorities recommend northern trasé, option C, if the Hadselfjord option was not to be chosen. I would like to stress that the tribal roads as main transport corridors will link up parts of the country with good accessibility and predictability for travellers. This is in line with the Storting's assumption for the tribal roads. The choice of northern trasé will benefit the entire region north of the Salt Mountains, without any significant impact on today's link to the Western Sea. The majority of the Committee therefore assumes that northerly trasé gives the Lofoten continental link northwards and eastwards, giving the fastest route towards E6. It connects the Lofoten, on the same line as the Vesterål, to the regions north and east of the Westfjord, with Harstad and Narvik. This will also be of great importance for economic and social life, including: in relation to higher education, the aerodrome at Evenes and not least the Narvik railway, which subsequently appears to be an effective corridor to the European rail network. This is a transport corridor that is already and will be an effective transport corridor for fishing transport to Europe. In addition, northern trasé provides continental connections between the Westphalian and Lofoten, but this connection obviously means an increase in travel time between the Westphalian and Lofoten relative to the Hadself-Earth Tunnel. But on the other hand, the north trasé will mean a several times shorter travel time for the Lofoten towards the E6. The majority therefore assume that in the selection of northerly trasé, the ferry link between Melbu and Fiskebøl must be maintained at a good frequency in order to ensure a satisfactory internal link between the Westphalian and Lofoten. This will be of great importance for the Hadsel area. If one were to draw a more pictorial conclusion on the selection of the northern trajectory, I would describe it this way: for the Lofoten and the western eel, this would appear to be the golden triangle with a course for Europe. The majority place great emphasis on the fact that there is already a built road from Fiskebøl with a bridge over Rafftsundet, and that this is an investment of 503 million. kr in today's crown value. The finished track represents approx. one third of the northern trasé and will undoubtedly be an investment which is most useful if the road is further built from the Raftsundet to Gullesfjordbotn. In the choice between the different options for northern trasé, the Workers Party assumes that all the options have more or less negative impacts on the natural environment and landscape. The area that has been most focused is the natural landscape along Øksfjorden and Indrefjorden and the proposal for the extension of the national park. Option C with tunnel will largely take this fjord landscape into account. This is the main reason why the Workers' Party will recommend this option, and not Option A that would have given an additional 180 million. kr in reduced investment costs. We find it acceptable that a day solution be provided with a bridge over Øksfjorden and Husjord Island, in order to minimise the intervention on Husjord Island. With these words I would recommend the setting. And if I was to finally make a personal wish, it had to be that when we're done with the vote tonight, I hope that Christmas peace will sink over the Lofoten and the Vesterål, and that the people between the mountains will have a peaceful Christmas weekend and a good lavish fishing on the autumn winter.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e421	The announcement about Lofast has been a big, important and very difficult matter. I have to say that this is the matter on which I have received most of the enquiries so far, and I have a great deal of understanding that it engages people both in the Lofoten and in the West. There are many alternatives, and all of them have their own trailers, either from the Vesteråln or from Lofoten. The choice that the Progress Party has made has been difficult, and we have not only studied documents and letters. Even I've been up there a couple of times looking at the areas, and I've been around listening to people's opinions and positions. But in this case, as in many other cases, everyone wants to have the providence that they like best, and that they themselves think is the most favorable. The Western Pole will, of course, have it on the European road today, while the Lofoten wants to enter the mainland as quickly as possible. When the cost of use was also equaled for northern trasé, option A, and the tunnel under Hadself-earth, the decision became even more difficult and heavier for us. We have had meetings and discussions with our own party people and others, and everyone has had good and useful arguments for their positions and their trajectory. It has been in the Progress Party as in the other parties, divided opinions about where the road was going, and I want to praise our people both in the West and in the Lofoten that they would have respected it no matter what position we had taken. The people of the Progress Party in this region must be in favour of this. The progress party landed on northern trasé, option A, and we did so on the basis that large parts of the road are already built. The remaining funding of the remaining part will also be the cheapest option. The cost of use here is also the most favourable. We clearly see Lofoten's need for rapid communication towards the mainland, while making potential development areas in Lofoten more attractive due to ferry-free connections. It also has a positive impact on business due to the improved flexibility resulting from their free connection and shorter access to their markets. At the same time, however, we also see that the link between the Lofoten and the West Pole is of great importance. Trade and traffic within this region are high and would be significantly reinforced by a tunnel link. I have to say I'm a little afraid on behalf of the West Pole that they'll stay a little behind when the European road moves to other areas. The decision for us in the Progress Party was not easy, but socio-economic considerations and the whole that existed made us land on the northern trajectory, option A. I would like to make our proposal on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e438	Thore Aksel Nistad has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e441	The Lofast case has been a difficult one. I have doubted myself through several points of view before I landed at the position I have today. During the last year I have been on the Transport Committee, no other case has led to so many enquiries. In fact, we have been regularly contacted by local politicians, our own party members local and local media. There is no doubt that this is a matter that is important to the population, and the commitment has been very special. The government presented its settings for the summer. The setting highlights the Hadself-Earth Tunnel as the best option. Since the submission of the suspension, there has been a regular look-up in the newspapers asking questions about one or the other in the basis of the conclusions drawn from the underlying agencies on which the ministry has based its decision. Some have asked questions about the geological surveys, some say that some people have changed their eyesight and would recommend something else today than what they have done in the past. Although the various reports and headlines in the media have created uncertainty, I can't help but relate to the official recommendations of the agencies that have expressed themselves. The Lofast case is also an environmental issue. For me, the environmental assessment has been important. The area of Øksfjorden/Indrefjorden is the last major continuous fjord area which is relatively unaffected by major interventions. The area is absolutely non-interventional, with a few houses and a power line, but there is no doubt that a road will represent interference of a new and far more extensive nature. I am concerned that we in Norway will take care of as much as possible of the untouched areas we have left. Not least, we have an international responsibility to take care of the natural areas that are special to Norway, such as the fjords. Unfortunately, we do not have so many untouched ones back. Therefore, it is important to protect this area from major interventions as well. That is the main reason why I have considered Option A as a little desirable. In an assessment of the Hadself-Earth Tunnel up against options C and C-U, there are several factors that are important to note. Firstly, the socio-economic net benefits are much better for the tunnel than for the other options. With the tunnel, we can also close the ferry link. The tunnel will connect in a completely different way the two regions Vesterålen and Lofoten. It can have positive effects in terms of the development of the common labour market, access to common infrastructure and centre functions. Nor is it going to come from the fact that it's along this line that it lives most people. In other words, resources are distributed among others. In addition, it is important for me that options C and C-U are not without negative environmental consequences. That's why I landed on the Hadselfard Tunnel as the best option. At the same time, I would like to mention that in the Christian People's Party there is also a minority that supports option C, something that others will get closer to. That being said, I would like to add something. For the whole group of the Christian People's Party, it has been and is of great importance that we can help to find a final solution to a matter that the people of Lofoten have been concerned about for a very long time. We have recorded that the majority in this room do not share our view of trajectory elections. We've also recorded that it's actually not the majority of any of the solutions. It would be boring for the people in Lofoten to end up with some sort of ‘opera solution’ — that there was a majority for the road itself, but not for any of the solutions. That is why we in the Christian People's Party have made it clear that we will help to find a solution. We want to contribute to the selection of the best possible solution that can be obtained from the environment. That is why we have notified subsidiary support for option C in the suspension. This solution is environmentally better than option A, and it follows mainly the path that many in Lofoten want. Finally, I hope, in fact, that the decision taken here today will lead to a good and decent solution for the inhabitants of the Western Sea, in Lofoten and throughout the region. I think we agree on that both in the committee and in the Stortinget. Then I promote the proposal on behalf of the Left and myself that the tunnel under Hadself-Earth be the basis for the further planning of Lofoten's continental connection.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e456	Rigmor Kofoed-Larsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e459	The case rapporteur has given a very good introduction to the matter – in that way most things are said. This is one thing that he was also about, with a long story. When Norwegian road and road traffic plans for the period 1990-93 were dealt with in 1989, there was a unanimous committee in which the Right was present, which said that it wanted to go further with this project along the northern trajectory. In the right hand side, there was a review of the information you had at the time, and that was why the party took that position. It became known that further work was done on that line. Work started, and in fact, considerable resources were also used on the track. So the matter arose again in 1995, when the then Minister for Transport, Opseth, wanted to investigate the Hadself-earth option. On the right, we disagreed with that at the time, but we had a small addendum that went on that if the county council wanted such an investigation, we were willing to look at it. The answer back was flashing clear, that they were on their previous priority, and then there was no reason for the Right to go in to investigate the Hadself-Earth option, when we thought it had been established already in the spring of 1989 when considering the road map. At the time, when they said no to the investigation of the Hadself-Earth option, the Right and the Christian People's Party and the Center agreed to such an assessment. The majority, which consisted mainly of the Workers' Party and SV, wanted such an investigation. So I'll be so free to say that I see afterwards that the decision was basically pretty good, because that makes us today perhaps have a greater width in the matter than we would otherwise have done. So now we've got a real assessment of the Hadself Earth, and at the same time we've been able to figure out the different options. I think that's good. In addition, I think it is good that the committee got the case on the table, got the various trajectories and formed a separate picture of it all, which is also the basis for the position that is on the table today. This is a matter that has had enormous local and regional interest, and there have been several people involved. There was no lack of information and enquiries in this case at all. Like the rapporteur, I would like to say that I hardly remember that we – in my time at least – have had a case of similar interest and commitment. There are many, many letters from this region in a drawer at the head of the committee. That's what I think is good, because it actually means that people are busy and engaged in their local environment. And that's probably something we all want, no matter which party we had to belong to, and what solution we'll eventually fall on. When true, there are, of course, good arguments for all of the trajectories in question. There's no problem going through this and finding out that there are good arguments here for both one and the other. But in such a situation, an overall assessment has to be made. Of course, this overall assessment is also linked to what we have said in the past, but not least to the previous investments that have been made. Then you have to weigh it against any new information that suggests that you should change your point of view. I sincerely believe that such an assessment has been carried out by the Right in this case and actually reached the conclusion that, based on what we knew in 1989, and what we thought in 1995, there was no information that we did not know before, which would indicate that we changed the position in the case. In the case of the choice between the northern trasé and the Hadselford option itself, at least the right choice should not come as a surprise to anyone. Actually, I don't think so either. That someone who has fought hard for their points of view is disappointed that a party does not have the same position as them, we can see very well. But of course, the same disappointment would be at least the same in others if the Right had turned around. This is the policy of choosing between different things. It's hard to satisfy everyone. From the northern trajectories in question, it appears from the setting that option A has been applied to the right. Another representative of the group will argue a little more about it. I'm just going to stress what I said, that the costs were material to the Right. Why? Yes, because for Norwegian transport in general, it is equivalent to 200 million. I have a terrible amount of money, and not least for the Nordic countries. There are many, many problems that could have been solved for these 200 million. kr. That's one of the reasons why the Right has thought you should choose the most reasonable course. In addition, there is also a trajectory that we think would be easier in that way that it goes open today, at least large parts of the line, and it would also be easier to predict the costs, so that there would be fewer surprises at cost time. So I'm going to honestly admit that when it was Option A -- and that's when I saw myself -- I saw a magnificent drive-in to Lofoten, a fantastic entrance to Lofoten that would give all the thousands of people who want to go there, a first impression that was absolutely overwhelming. Of course, you don't get that in a tunnel. From other places, I know that the Lofotweg – as this road might be called, what I know – could also have been of great importance in marketing contexts, just linked to option A. It's shown the Atlantic Road somewhere else. But let's just hope that the trajectory that we're choosing now gets such an architectural design on the terrain and on the ground that it can satisfy the requirements of contributing to the experience that all these people want, as well as of course being an effective, good and progressive way for those who are going to run it all year and every benevolent day. It will be shown in the setting that if our option falls off, the Right vote for option C. That's my wish, and it might be, that we get an almost unanimous increase for option C -- that would benefit the matter to the greatest extent. The biggest challenge after a decision has been made, hopefully, is to see if there is also a willingness to grant the money to build the road. I hope that is the case, but I must honestly admit that the experience so far suggests that I cannot be absolutely sure.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e485	Several people have before me been discussing the history of Lofoten's continental relationship, so I'm not going to spend time repeating what others have said. But we can establish that the case of mainland connections for Lofoten has a long history. Today we have come so far that we have to assume that it is the final trasé choice we are going to make tonight. This is a localisation issue that – as so many other localisation issues – has led to a high level of local, regional and national involvement. In this matter, there has been a very large local commitment. Everyone in the area has opinions about the trasé elections. For the years we have been discussing this matter in political forums, we have discussed very many options. Several options have been rejected in the process, but we also have several options in place today. In a road-location case, many conditions have to be assessed. The Lofast options have all their advantages and disadvantages. It's not that one of the current lines is only positive and all the other ones are only negative. There are plus and minus pages for all of the suggestions, and this is exactly what makes a choice between different options difficult. Different moments must be weighed and evaluated against each other. I would like to comment on some of the assessments that have been important to me in the position on this matter. In the Lofast message, three main lines are involved. Alternatives A, C and C-U closely follow the same trajectory from Rafftsundet to Gullesfjordbotn. The difference is the proportion of the current distance and the amount of the tunnel. Option I go from Raftsundet to Sigerfjord, and the last option is the Hadself-Earth Tunnel. After an overall assessment, the Centre Party has come to the conclusion that the northerly trajectory to Gullesfjordbotn is the best option. The alternative to Gullesfjordbotn gives the Lofoten continental connection both north and east. The Lofoten is linked to the regions north and east of the Westfjord. This is also the fastest route to E6. Short roads to important transport veins are important for business, and the Gullesfjord options lead to a better connection to the airport at Evenes and the Narvik railway. At the same time, this is also a connecting route between the Lofoten and the Vestral, although this route provides longer travel time between the two areas than the Hadself-Earth tunnel would have given. It is therefore important, as the majority of the Committee has said in its comments, that the ferry link between Melbu and Fiskebøl must be maintained at a frequency which ensures a satisfactory internal connection between the Lofoten and the West Pole. An argument to choose a northern trasé is also that it is built a road with a tribal road standard from Fiskebøl with a bridge over Rafftsundet. This is an investment of 503 million. kr with today's crown value. This investment will be most useful by continuing the northern trajectory from the Raftsundet. All options for northern trasé have more or less negative impacts on the natural environment and landscape. All alternatives to Gullesfjordbotn are at the extreme of the extended national park proposal. But just in this area, there's a force line that's very clearly visible on the terrain. There are also some houses and plantations in the same area. So we're not talking about going through the whole pristine nature. Option A, which is the Central Party's primary choice, shall be followed on certain lines by the force line already in the area. Option A can then be used to set the powerline in the cable. This may be a positive measure. There is also reason to stress that option A is more reasonable than the other options, with a total of 280 million. It's more reasonable than the Hadself-Earth Tunnel. An option that usually goes into the day will also usually be easier to get the most reliable calculations on, as opposed to, for example. Hadself-earth tunnel, with the uncertainness associated with the geology of Hadself-earth. As the Lofoten mainland link has been up in the Storting several times before, there may also be reason to look back at the positions of the owned party in this matter in the past. When the Center Party today in the Inner East. S. No 73 is also a continuation of the previous position in the Centre Party. As you can see from this setting, the Central Party has option A as its primary position. The setting also indicates that the Central Party will support option C secondaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e511	As has been mentioned before, there are many strong feelings in this matter, feelings that have to do with commitment and enthusiasm, but that have also led to a bit of an incriminating matter, with strong conflicts between the regions. So it is not certain that Christmas peace will sink everywhere when the decision has been made, as the case-rapporteur was about to say. We want from the solution chosen tonight, to be left with winners who will probably celebrate and maybe flag, and lose that might feel a little bit more bitter about the decision. But the biggest losers will be the environment and the batches that violate the guidelines they have previously stated will be used for road projects. If you don't want to use those guidelines, I'm afraid it might also have consequences for future road choices. I'm going to say a little about the background, but I'm not going back to 1933, as the rapporteur did. I'm going to go back to 1989, when a joint transportation committee concluded that the northern trajectory would be the election, without the end point being determined. There were three possibilities at that time: Kanstad, who later fell away, and two remaining, Gullesfjord and Sigerfjord. For those who were followers of the northern trajectory, there was still a choice as to what corridor you wanted. In 1995, SV agreed to explore the Hadself-Earth option. Why that, when we had previously agreed to go in for the north trajectory? Well, first of all, we didn't want to argue afterwards that there was an alternative that was not investigated and that would kind of be there in a debate. We thought it was good to get it on the table, so we could also assess whether it was a better option. That also means that we opened up to evaluate it as an alternative to the northern trajectory. I therefore think it is a little inconceivable when you hear that some people now use the argument that they have built a northern trasé over the Raftsundet as an argument against the tunnel, not least the Workers' Party, which proposed to explore the tunnel and agreed that we should continue the construction over the Raftsundet in order to get road clearance. So that exact argument I feel is a little inexcusable, based on the history of the investigation. I also find it sad that most of the debate and work has been about two main options – two main options, both of which have large minus pages or question marks. I would first like to say something about them before I justify SV's choice of the third option, which I feel that other parties have not gone seriously enough into. In the case of northern trasé to Gullesfjord, alternatives A and C, it is clear that this is the shortest option to the east and far north. It is also clear that Option A is clearly the cheapest option and differs from others. So for economic reasons, there's a lot of talk about it. But then there are some heavy objections, and the heaviest objection from us in SV is the environment – by the way, I want to get a little more back to the price before I go over to the environment. Because it's part of the price tag that those who go in for the northerly trasé, whether it's option A or C to Gullesfjord, haven't included. I think it's amazing, it annoys me a little bit, that the majority closes their eyes because there's an extra bill between Gullesfjord and Sigerfjord. Wetland problems are already there, and the price of 100 million. kr has been added to the tunnel option and in option I to Sigerfjord, but is not included in the price tag of the Gullesfjord options. Based on the fact that we will also have an increased traffic between Gullesfjord and Sigerfjord when choosing Gullesfjord, I believe that these problems need to be solved. Swallow if it doesn't become part of Lofast, the price tag will be the same, 110 million. kr. So if you're going to get a factual assessment of this, you're going to have to add 110 million. kr for both options A and C. Option A remains significantly cheaper than others, but option C is likely to be selected today. It is on the level of what is currently estimated for the tunnel, and not so far from the Sigerfjord option – I will go into it in more detail – because I think that is the overprice of the estimate we have received from the department and the directorate. That means that there is only option A that stands out. But the reason why I can't go into any alternative to Gullesfjord is the environmental interventions. I believe in a way that the conclusion of the county council says the most: ‘The impact study clearly shows that the implementation of Lofast via Indrefjord – Øksfjord has a significant, partly very negative impact on the natural environment, landscape and outdoor life. All options via Nordre trasé [[except everything. H and I]] So regardless of whether you choose A or C, the county council has clearly stated that it is contrary to several national environmental policy objectives. It has been crucial for me. An additional argument is that these alternatives provide the shortest route between the Lofoten and the Harstad region, Ofoten, etc. But at the same time, between Raftsundet – where the road is now finished – and Gullesfjord, there is not one person. This leads to a census of transit traffic, which gets shorter roads, but there are no local censuses for road users, because they do not exist. In the case of a tunnel under Hadself-Earth, there are also many positive sides. Among other things, representatives of Kofoed-Larsen have mentioned the positive effects of linking the regions. And I agree with what she says about the positive regional effects. What makes me seriously in doubt about the tunnel is that I feel a lot of uncertainty about technical implementation and costs. There is a technical disagreement about the quality of soil conditions for bulky matter, crack zones, over-coverage – this becomes Norway’s longest underwater tunnel – and this uncertainty is significantly emphasised by SV. There are also some other minus sides with tunnel. The operation is quite energy-intensive, and it acts as a ‘reverse’ mountain crossing, where the vehicle combinations slow down to the bottom and cancel on the other side. We have then concluded that we need to look at the Sigerfjord option, which the others will not look at. And it's clear that with what's in this material, it looks like it's the most expensive option in terms of C and in terms of tunnel. But in relation to C, as I have already mentioned, I believe that the costs between Gullesfjord and Sigerfjord must be included in the picture, and I also believe that what is today Rv 822 between Fiskfjord and Sigerfjord is of such a standard that it has to be repaired, even with today's traffic. One of these repairs has a calculated 60 million. kr, a cost that is also included in the picture. Then I want to say that the alternative to Sigerfjord does not have a price tag that is higher than for the others. In addition, there are more positive local consequences as well as a road for transit traffic. It gives some small towns a roadway that doesn't have it today. In addition, it provides a better transport standard for living communities such as Kaldjord, Hernes, Blokken, Fiskfjord etc. – where there is some business life, there is some industry, etc. – which today has a road with some bad standards. In other words, it has some local effects. In addition, the county, which recommended the tunnel, said: ‘The County assesses option I to Sigerfjord as an environmentally acceptable alternative.’ So then, with the sum of these arguments, I have concluded that Sigerfjord is the best option. In addition, Sigerfjord could act as a peace pipe – there were no losers. In the Lofoten and the Vestral – if you do not get your primary choice – Sigerfjord has been a secondary alternative you could have accepted and lived with. Then you had chosen Sigerfjord, you had been left without losers tonight. That is, Hadsel comes a little in the back, but you keep, as it is, the ferry with reduced frequency – without saying anything about how good the frequency, but at least it's being reduced – they'll still have a solution. Based on what I have argued about, I would also like to signal that it is impossible for us to support options A and C subsidiaryly, for environmental reasons. And the uncertainty I feel about the Hassel option makes me unable to support it either. That means that when our alternative is down, I will vote against the other options later in the voting - if it wasn't for someone to be convinced of my speech, take a group meeting during the evening and go in for the Sigerfjord option. It would have made me great joy.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e545	Perhaps the representative will bring up proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e549	Yes, I would like to address our excellent proposal, which should be assessed at extraordinary group meetings during the evening! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e554	Then Inge Myrvoll has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e557	Then we've come to what a lot of people, especially in Northern Ireland, have been waiting for nearly ten years, a decision on the line for mainland connections to Lofoten. The starting point for the mainland connection was northerly trasé, later came the requirement for an investigation of a tunnel trasé under Hadselfjorden. This was met, while Stortinget said that the road to the Raftsundet and the bridge over was to be built anyway. The road and the bridge are finished – an incredibly nice road to approx. $1.2 billion, made for 270 people today. This road may start at Lofoten's mainland connection if the Stortinget makes the right choice today and selects the northern trajectory. If the Hadselford option is chosen, the construction path will be 500 million. until the Raftsundet lies there as a monument to long-term misjudged road appropriations. With the deportation that North Norway is now experiencing, unfortunately, this road may only serve 100 people in 10 years if it will still be a blind road. Any road project will be an intervention in nature. This was very conscious of the ministry as early as 1992 when a new national park plan and other major areas of protection in Norway were under discussion. In St.meld. No 62 for 1991-92: ‘The Ministry intends to continue the proposal on the Indrefjord/Öksfjord National Park.’ Furthermore, ‘Protection of the area requires that one finds a trajectory for the mainland link of Lofoten that can be combined with a reasonable demarcation of the protection area.’ What was said in 1992 was very sensible use of words, and with the choice now made by the majority of the Committee on Transport, option C, environmental aspects have been taken care of in the northern trajectory by entering a tunnel where nature is the most vulnerable, so that only about half of the total. 100 m zone of protection area is affected. There's a house, cabins and power line from before, so the area isn't completely untouched, as someone has claimed. If, in the future, only environmental interests are to be determined and disregarded for both commercial interests, people's desire for urbanisation and the rapid development of the economy, an even greater part of District Norway will be removed. I believe it is possible to reconcile nature's diversity with providing Lofoten with a time-saving road link to both rail and aircraft. This will bring great benefits to the business community in Lofoten, as fresh fish compete on time for delivery, and then 40 minutes is quite a long time. For travellers to the Lofoten on Evenes Airport, also northerly trasé will be both a natural experience and a time-saving experience. If only one could get both bag and bag, it was of course both northern trasé and Hadself-earth tunnel. That's not the way we have to pick. Of course, the Hadself-Earth tunnel has its advantages. Environmentally, it scores points, and the fact that it links the West and Lofoten more together to a large region is also a good point, but it also gives negative results. There is a great deal of uncertainty about prices. The pumping stations in the tunnel will be an expenditure item of approx. 2.5 million. kr per year, consumption 4.5 GWh per year years. In this world's longest underwater car tunnel, all fuel for ships and cars in Lofoten is to be transported by tankers, and as the tunnel becomes so steep that the speed actually has to fall from 10 to 30 km an hour, it will also cause major air pollution. Fire and safety equipment must be extra large here – if it is to be the Hadself-Earth Tunnel. In this case, some have to be disappointed. But I choose to see it so that it's Lofoten's continental connection we're going to decide, and then it's very important for me to listen to the Lofoten's population and the Nordic Workers' Party in this matter. Finally, I would like the northern trasé, option C, to be the end result of the evening, while I wish Lofoten and the Western Pole good luck with a good cooperation after this evening.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e583	Continental connections to Lofoten have been discussed and investigated for many years. In connection with Stortinget’s treatment of Norwegian road and road traffic plans for 1990-93, St.meld. No 32 for 1988-89, the Stortinget was briefed on the work on the mainland link. In this context, the size indicated that such a popular area as Lofoten should be given a fixed road link to the other road network. This has probably been perceived as giving Lofoten a historical claim to a mainland connection. Different signals have been given in the choice of trame for the mainland connection. In 1989, the Stortinget stated that the northern trajectory should be chosen as a continental link. This was done by Stortinget with the background of the large local consensus that seemed to have this option. In 1994-95, the Ministry of Transport of the United Kingdom to adopt an investigation into the tunnel under Hadselfjorden also before final decision was taken on the option to be chosen, which is due to take place today. This was recommended because the local consensus on the north trasé no longer seemed to be present, and because it had emerged that there would be significant environmental consequences in the selection of the north trasé. The Storting agreed to such an investigation in connection with the treatment of St.prp. No 53 for 1994-95, on some changes in vows etc. in the territory of the Ministry of Transport. In this connection, Stortinget went in to complete the road link to the east side of Rafftsundet, regardless of what would be chosen as a trajectory. After careful assessment, the government went in to set up a tunnel under Hadselfjorden to further plan the mainland connecting of Lofoten. Tunnels under the Hadself Earth are the best option in the cost-benefit analysis for the different options. The government found that the tunnel under Hadself-earth would be the best option for the Lofoten in the long term. The government stressed the importance of seeing the region of LOVE – Lofoten and the Westphalia – in the context. For cooperation in the region, a tunnel under Hadself-earth will be the best option. The choice of the Hadselford option can contribute to the further development of a region with about 57 000 inhabitants. In fact, there is reason to note that population-rich regions with lower population numbers than this, among other things. in the Tromsø area, has depopulation per today, so that this regional perspective weighed heavily. The development of the region by linking several sites will provide a more varied and flexible labour market for the inhabitants of the region. The impact study has shown that a large part of the traffic over the Melbu-Fiskebøl ferry link is internal traffic between Lofoten and Vesterålen. The hypothesis of positive interaction between the Lofoten and the Vestreålen is also reinforced by business output to see the two areas in context. It is my opinion that robust regions ensure the development of the districts. In addition, the Ministry of Transport, in consultation with the Ministry of Environmental Protection, has chosen to place a decisive emphasis on the impact on the environment, cultural memories and natural resources. The Hadself-Earth option will not have consequences for valuable natural areas. Ingelsfjorden, Øksfjorden and Indrefjorden form central parts of a major continuous coastal alpine area. In the field of natural sciences, this area meets the value criteria at national level. The area Indrefjord/Öksfjord has been proposed to be established as a national park, cf. St.meld. No 62 for 1991-92. All options by northern trasé will more or less affect this area. The Hadself-Earth option is estimated to cost 860 million. kr. In the Hadself-Earth option, costs have been put in at a good margin and with experience figures from FATIMA and the Fröya tunnel – to put it in a more popular way, the worst and most expensive tunnel examples we have so far. In addition, geologic studies have been conducted more thoroughly in this phase than are usual for tunnel alternatives. At the same time, this is a matter of much for and against all the different options. It's e.g. unobtrusively that road by northerly trasé, options A, C and C-U, i.e. Raftssundet – Ingelsfjorden – Øksfjorden – Sørdalen – Gullesfjordbotn, will give shorter access to E6 for the people of Lofoten than the tunnel under Hadselfordden. The difference in travel time between Leknes to Harstad and Narvik according to options A and C in relation to the tunnel under Hadself-earth is calculated for approx. half an hour — of a total travel time of five and a half and four and a half hours, respectively, following the Hadself-earth option. It is also worth pointing out that the different options will provide mainland Lofoten with north- and east-facing connections. It must also be pointed out that many perceive ferries from Svolvær to Hamarøy as the easiest way from Lofoten to E6. One must of course also take inwards that some people do not want to travel through long underwater tunnels, although this in other underwater tunnels seems to be a fear that decreases over time. In addition to this, a road has been built to approx. 500 million. kr past the Raftssundet, which will be poorly exploited if the northerly trasé is not continued. The majority of the Committee also noted this in its position. In this case, I don't think there is any alternative that is an absolute winter alternative, based on the local population's assessments. It is worth noting that none of the options are intended to be socially viable. Regardless of road connections and trajectory choices, the sea will still be a central transport year for Lofoten. I look at the committee's attitude that the majority is in favour of northern trajectory, but with varying alternatives along it. There seems to be agreement on option C: Rafftssundet – Ingelsfjorden – Øksfjorden, bridge over Øksfjorden via Husjordøya, tunnel from the east side of Øksfjorden, i.e. Indrefjorden, at Brynjulfschägen to Sørdalen, through Sørdalen to Gullesfjordbotn. This option is currently estimated to cost 760 million. kr. This is 100 million. kr less than the cost estimate of the Hadselford option. The uncertainty in cost estimates is +/25 pst., which is the requirement for accuracy in this investigation phase. It is also the case that the alternatives have become more expensive at each and every review. That is why the government in the draft budget has said that, according to the guidelines set by the Storting, one has to come back with one thing when one has cost variations and the uncertainty of the estimates is +/10 pst. It has also been said that one needs to assess the detailed budgeting of the plans for the 2002-2011 programming period. Nordic county has joined option C-U. It's just like option C, but with a tunnel under Øksfjorden to Brynjulflagen, short day stretch at Brynjulflagen. In the context of the treatment of the sub-plan, Fylkinget went in for alternative C-U. This was prioritised in front of C to minimise environmental impacts. The head of the road recommended in the treatment of the county sub-plan that the tunnel under the Hadself-earth should be chosen as a trajectory. Subsidiary, the head of the road went in for option C. In conclusion, I would like to point out again the historical requirement of Lofoten on a continental connection. In this case, there are, as has been explained, many advantages and disadvantages of all alternatives. I would like to point out the strong local commitment that has been shown. Many individuals, teams and associations, businesses and public institutions have addressed the Department of this matter. There has been an exposure to and against all the different options. The committee setting also reflects this. The case has been investigated for a long time and carefully. I think the most important thing now is to get a clarification of the basis for further planning. This is the region's claim. This is due to the need to move forward in the work on the continental link so that there can be peace again, as much peace as possible in this debate on the Lofoten and the Vesterål. A choice of trajectory by option C is something I can live with, even though I think the Hadself-earth option would be the most forward-looking and not least the most environmentally oriented. I have noticed that the majority of the Committee points out that the ferry link between Melbu and Fiskebøl is maintained at a good frequency in order to ensure a satisfactory internal connection between the Westphalian and Lofoten. However, let me end by stressing something that I have mentioned earlier in this article, that this fact, as with all the other major transport projects, will be a very careful cost assessment. As the chairman of the Committee indicated, there is some concern because, in such cost assessments, there is a tendency that what is initially being considered is not necessarily the most desirable figure after a detailed assessment. The Ministry of Transport will work out such an alternative within an uncertainty of +/10 pst. and it will be up to local bodies, among others. in the context of the work of the National Transport Plan, to see this in conjunction with other alternatives and also to see it in the context of the overall priorities to be achieved within the period 2002 to 2011. There's reason to remember such an economic soberness, because it's not that long since we had a transport budget for treatment here in the hall, where I could dryly see that we all had it in common that we had just as much or as little money available when it came to the play, and we cut aside the primary proposals we would otherwise have wanted to be adopted. With this accuracy, I hope that through tonight's treatment we will have a clarification in relation to further planning and further work on cost assessments in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e632	Today we are dealing with Lofoten's continental connection, a matter that has been decided three times in the county council in Northern Ireland. I assume that this will be the last consideration of that matter – I assume at least that. There has been a great commitment to this matter. There's been a lot of commitment from people in Lofoten, and it's been a lot of commitment from people in the West. The starting point was that the road would be as short as possible to Gullesfjord or eastward towards Lødingen. Later came the option with the Hadselfjord tunnel and the Sigerfjord alternative. Today, there are probably only four alternatives. It's the tunnel, the Sigerfjord, alternatives A and C. I have been very much in contact with both praises and people from the Westphalia on this matter. There's a huge traffic between the Lofoten and the West Pole. It is not surprising that there are some who will work to get the shortest possible path between the two regions. That's why the tunnel option came up. We've been evaluating tunnels every now and then. And with the tunnel scandals we've had in this country, I would say that I consider the Hadself-Earth Tunnel to be geologically uncertain – should there be a leak in that tunnel, at least there is no Puttjer to be emptied! And then there are not so many other alternatives. Of course, I agree with Inge Myrvoll on the Sigerfjord option – it would have been a good deal of people who would have had the road set off via Sigerfjord. It's a paradox that by choosing option A or C, you go through an area in which there is no human being. Then there is no one who gets a road trigger, except for those who get the road to the east – but no one lives in that area. There is also no ferry connection that is being cut out. It'll probably be one of the few times it's made a mainland connection in the country, and it won't cut out a ferry connection. The internal traffic between the West and Lofoten will not be smaller – it is likely to get bigger – so the need for an even stronger and strengthened ferry link between the Lofoten and the West will always be there. It is clear that the ferry link will come under pressure, precisely because it will now be pointed out that we have got a continental connection both to the E6 and to the West. Another thing that has been little progress in the debate is that although Lofoten has a continental connection, it does not have a continental connection anyway, southwards – you have to take a ferry over Tysfjorden. So that's a good solution north and east, but I'm not so sure that's the way people go south. Then it is decided to choose Skutvik – but now leave it. Overall, there is a dispute about money in respect of all transportation appropriations. It's about saving. And when you get here to the house and you're going to decide the budget, it's cutting into road appropriations. We should have had over 1 billion more to road appropriations in North Norway to improve E6 – considering, for example, racial protection, and many other improvements. And it's clear that we're choosing Option A, we have to, at least from the north, we have to be able to claim at the next crossroads that we're now going to have the sum we're saving by choosing the cheapest option, to repair E6. We have a know-how in the middle of Helgeland, between the Mo in Rana and the Nordland border, which looks like neither bird nor fish. It is dangerous in winter to drive both over the Korg mountain and through the municipality of Grane. So we go in for option A, which means the cheapest and fastest way to the east, when we can't get anything else. I also agree with the majority of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e647	The impact assessment and sub-plane of the mainland Lofoten link are based on the three main solutions for north trasé eastwards to E10. It is Rafftsundet – Sigerfjord, Rafftsundet – Gullesfjord, Rafftsundet – Kanstad and the alternative with tunnel under Hadselfsunden. The Progress Party believes that all options will make potential deployment areas more attractive due to holiday-free connectivity, and will have a positive impact on the Lofoten industry due to improved flexibility as a result. I am convinced that a shorter journey to the east will result in an increase in the welfare level of the Lofoten population, and that the alternatives to the northern trasé will provide the shortest route to E6, with the exception of option I. I have a great deal of understanding of the view that the inhabitants of the Vesterålen have of Lofoten's mainland connection, which by tunnel under the Hadself-earth, in addition to the mainland connection they have today, will have a ferry-free connection between the Lofoten and the Vesterålen. However, I would point out that the Ministry of Transport says that any proposal for development will not be promoted until the project is planned at the regulatory level, and the uncertainty regarding costs is reduced to +/-10 pst. If the tunnel option is still to be explored, this means that the mainland link is being delayed indefinitely — and the Lofoten population has waited long enough. I would argue that as the cost-benefit factor of the tunnel under the Hadself-earth of the Vesterålen and option A – the northern trasé – is almost the same, other factors need to be emphasised. Among other things, this includes: nature protection considerations. But I believe that the nature protection considerations regarding option A cannot be given much weight, as the road will follow a trachea that is not untouched, but that has a high-spent line, a plant field and a built-in environment. I also believe that a road today will provide disabled people, tourists and others who, for various reasons, are unable to walk through a strange terrain, the opportunity to see this magnificent landscape in which the Lofoten has to live. It is also a fact that a tunnel is not allowed to be used by cycling and walking, and that these can use the ferry today. A long underwater tunnel is – in addition to large operating costs – also a problem for many older drivers, and in the event of collisions and fires. In addition, it will give people in Lofoten extra driving time to E6. The promotion party has stressed that option A – northerly trasé – provides the shortest route to E6. The road will largely walk in the day, and the ferry Melbu – Fiskebøl is maintained. The party of progress also believes that it will reach approx. 503 million. kr has already been used on the way from Fiskebøl with a bridge over Rafftsundet, it would be natural to complete the project already started. I would also like to highlight the uncertainty in the cost estimates and point to the experience gained in the development of underwater tunnels, which suggests that one should be extremely careful before going for such a solution. The residual cost of option A is 580 million at revised cost estimate. kr. In the continued investigation of the Hadself-Earth tunnel, the cost estimates continue to have an uncertainty of +/-25 pst. The cost of the revised estimate is 860 million. kr. This is 280 million. kr more than Option A, and in addition, the costs of continuing the investigation. I would also like to point out that the people of Lofoten now want a decision to be taken on the matter and not further delayed with further investigation. The Progress Party will therefore recommend the selection of Northern Trasé, option A. In the absence of a majority vote in favour of the proposal of the Party of Presidents, the Right and the Centre, the Progress Party will, for its part, be in favour of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox If this proposal does not receive a majority, the Progress Party will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e662	As a local representative with a boulevard in Lofoten, I have lived with this case close to life for a 15-year period. I am not amazed at the great local commitment shown in the final phase, and the expectations expressed in the Storting treatment. All the way from Nordland County, in 1988, decided to build the Lofoten mainland link after northern trasé, and Stortinget during the treatment of St.meld. No 32 for 1988-89 concluded that Lofast was to be built after a northerly trasé, high expectations in the Lofot region have been linked to a rapid and effective cross-link with the airport of Evene – with a new mail sorting terminal – to the Hålogaland region, the E6, the Swedish intermediate road, the ARE trains on the Ofot railway and the train corridors towards Russia and beyond Europe. The Committee on Transport is a lot on the move, but something similar to that of this case, I have not yet experienced. Especially in memory is the public meeting in Svolvær Square with 800 people present and a clear message presented in a worthy way. It's primarily a victory for local democracy and the popular commitment we're going to be allowed to witness to today. I also believe that my and many people's political credibility has been put to a great test in this matter. Half of the continental route has been completed and opened, with a European road standard and a speed limit of 90 km, Raffsundbrua to 110 million. kr has been completed, and in total it is, as it may look today, NOK 1⁄2 billion to provide the way for 270 people. I would like to remind you that the Christian People's Party voted against investigating the Hadself-Earth option. It is very important that there is a negative net benefit for Lofast whether you choose the Hadselfjord option or the Northern Trasé, but I have not seen any calculation for the net benefit of the half billion that has already been used, if this piece of road would end up in the mountain wall as a memory of the Storting's handling of the case today. I have no problem seeing that it is possible to arrive at other conclusions regarding trasé choices, as the various voting options clearly show today. I also have a clear relationship with the fact that the Government has recommended the Hadselford option on the basis of natural and environmental assessments and on the basis of a desire to link the two regions more closely. I am also aware that the Christian People's Party is divided into the matter, but I would like to express my delight in being able to gather and vote subsidiaryly for option C, on the northern trajectory. The Lofoten, Vesterålen, Ofoten and Süd-Troms are in many ways a large common region. This is formalised through the Hålogaland cooperation. Now Lofoten gets its mainland connection with the big region, and – I stress – also with the Western Sea, and that gives rich prospects for development. I would also like to remind you that the ferry between Fiskebøl and Melbu will be maintained at a good frequency and will be an alternative to the northern trajectory. As regards the time spent on the route Svolvær-Lødingen, we have already heard that it is about saving about. half an hour, at least when driving a heavy-duty vehicle, otherwise you have to expect to spend more than 20 minutes driving time to come to Blackland from Svolvær. This would say something about the marginal time difference we're talking about, in relation to the great uncertainty associated with building the world's longest underwater tunnel. In addition, the calculations already show today that option C is 100 million. kr cheaper to build than the tunnel. It is my clear conviction that it would be impossible to build a road in Lofoten if, in the utmost sense, one had laid the same strict environmental foundations as for Lofast. I believe that Lofast, after option C, has taken reasonable account of the nature and the environment of the area, and the price we pay, in relation to option A, is 180 million. kr. I would like to stress that in the investigation of any national park in the area, account has been taken of the fact that Lofoten's continental connection was going to go into the area. It has been said and written incredibly much about this road link, and it is also not to hide that the debate has not exactly helped to promote cooperation between the Lofoten and the West. After the trasé elections are held tonight, it will be a major task in both regions to find common solutions for the benefit of both parties. I would then finally recommend the Stortinget to choose the northern trajectory, option C, as the mainland connection for Lofoten.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e688	The question of Lofoten's continental connection is, in fact, a question about the mainland connection for Lofoten. No matter what solutions/trasés are chosen, the link with or link to the E6 will neither be weakened nor strengthened by the choices we make. However, there is no doubt that both regions – both the Lofoten and the Vestreål – have interests related to the trasé elections. This is also clearly reflected in the intense commitment that has taken place. But it's also true that the interests are more fanciful than just these two regions. Also South Troms and Northern Nordland with the Ofoten region have legitimate interest in the choice of trasé. Business, tourism and activities that strengthen the foundations of Harstad/Narvik Airport, and the ARE trains from Narvik are factors that are emphasised. However, all these conditions point unequivocally to the fact that the choice of northern trasé is the most favourable choice. Nordland county councils have been decided to establish a northern trajectory on the basis of which Lofoten's continental link is to be realised. The Nordic Labour Party has made similar choices. LO in Nordland has done the same. What makes this case so complicated? The regional impact of the choice of alternatives is assessed very differently. On the part of the Western Balkans, the economic and functional possibilities are considered to be significant if one is able to further develop the Lofoten and the Western Sea as a wider converging region. From the Vesteråln side, this tunnel is assumed to be under Hadselfjorden. This is disputed by the Lofoten side, which believes that the choice of northern trasé will in any case bind these two regions more strongly together. Nordre trasé gives Lofoten the long-distance continental link north and eastwards and the fastest road towards E6. Some argue that environmental considerations argue that the Hadself-Earth option must be chosen, because the northern trajectory leads to strong interventions in pristine nature. This is wrong. Northern trasé, option C, will only very little conflict with so-called pristine nature. In isolation, I would say that option A is a very good alternative, with the same justification as the committee's chairman stated earlier. Nevertheless, when I am in favour of option C, this is out of respect for those who believe that option C should be chosen for environmental policy reasons. I would therefore strongly recommend that the Stortinget adopt northern trasé, option C, for Lofoten's mainland connection. This gives Lofoten the continental link that has been fought for over a number of years, while providing continental connection between the Lofoten and the Western region. I noticed the articles of the Council of State, especially the end of the article. But I still assume that the decision we are making tonight is a real decision, not a preliminary decision, which the Council of State's submissions could suggest. Further planning must therefore be based on the decision of the evening and not on a new rematch, which could have the impression of lying in what the Council of State finally said.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e705	It should be known to most people that the Right during the whole Lofast treatment has been stuck on the northern trajectory. Of the different options associated with the northern trajectory, the Right wants to select option A. The right selects the northern trasé for several reasons. It is important to choose the shortest route between Lofoten and E6 for transport economic reasons when the Lofoten has its continental connection and is linked to E6. It's a northern trajectory. The purpose of Lofast is to provide the Lofoten with a supply connection north and eastward. Another argument that speaks for the northern trasé is that it has already been invested approx. 500 million. kr in road construction and bridge over the Raftsundet. It would be a crazy waste of society's resources if the northern trajectory wasn't realized. The right has also chosen Option A for economic reasons. This is the cheapest option, with a cost estimate of 580 million. kr. In a situation of very tight road budgets, the price plays an important role. Based on the vote, a majority here in Stortinget will vote for option C later this evening. It's amazing that some of the lots that will give at least money to the road sector, at the same time, choose the most expensive route. After the calculation, the bulk of the population is going to be going to be $180 million. kr more than is necessary to provide the Lofoten mainland connection. It's sad to think about how much could be done with 180 million. kr in the road sector in Lofoten or in the other Nordic countries. Compared to option C, option A has fewer tunnel kilometres, and tunnels are experienced as the most uncertain in terms of costs. As mentioned by several, there has been an enormous local commitment, and it is probably also right to say that there has been an enormous local commitment from the Lofoten even for the north trajectory. The objections to the northern trasé in general and option A have been particularly related to the environmental aspect. Option A concerns the outer edge of the planning area of the planned national park. Option A will follow here approximately the same trajectory as a force line passing through the area. In addition, there are plant fields and recreational settlements in the areas along the northern trajectory. Building a road in an area with already significant natural interference is, in the Right's view, sound. But it is important that the aesthetic design of the road in the terrain is emphasised. As already announced by the chairman of the Committee, the Right subsidiary will support option C.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e722	It goes without saying that it's not so much new to bring so late in the debate. I agree with what has been said about the significance for Lofoten. It is, as you know, a long-awaited new life’s nerve for which it is now based. I want to limit my post to a few words about why I also go in for the north trasé as the best solution, and then option C. It is not the first time that several alternative solutions are available when major road installations are to be built, and almost always we are faced with some very cross-cutting interests. In this case, there are roughly two regions facing each other. For me, it has been crucial what people in Lofoten want. Although it may seem very simple, like some others, I would say that after all, we are talking about Lofoten's continental connection. It's been a long time since the Western Rope. And as I see it, there can be no doubt about what Lofoten means. I can't remember if I've ever met a representative of the people in Lofoten who have argued for a tunnel under Hadself-Earth. The signals that have reached me from there have been quite unambiguous. I have a great sense of the argument from the West Pole that the two regions can serve in close proximity to each other, including in particular: by jointly exploiting the business opportunities available. But first of all, it is striking that that argument does not have a rootstock in Lofoten, and second, I would point out for myself that it is not such that the two regions are separated from each other if the northern trajectory is chosen. And then they get stuck together. In fact, it will take a little longer to drive between parts of the two regions, but the connection will be there 24 hours a day. And the ferry connection across the Hadself Earth shall be maintained with satisfactory frequency. In addition, considerable attention needs to be paid to the benefit of Lofoten in getting the fastest route to E6. This will have a major impact on, inter alia: the transport of products out of the region. I would also argue that it is not possible to say that the vester needle is lying in a backyard if the northern trajectory is chosen. In this case, the two regions will remain silent. The environmental argument has also been drawn to the advantage of the Hadselford solution. Neither will I reject that argument completely. Obviously, if we limit it to a question of nature intervention, the northern trasé will be the worst out. It'll be better on the terrain. No wonder the County Impact Assessment concludes as it does. But in my view, we have to look at the overall environment. And then it has to count that the tunnel solution will lead all traffic through and past heavily populated areas of the West Sea forever. There will be both environmental and road safety disadvantages associated with that solution. Then the question of the natural interventions by the northern trasé will become so big that it should have overall significance. Of course, I have registered that both the Nature Conservation Association and the Tourist Association want the tunnel under the fjord. And I understand their wish. Of course, getting a road through a relatively pristine natural area is no advantage. However, for us who are going to make the final decision, there has to be a balance for several reasons. And I'll claim that the intervention path will do, should be acceptable to all conditions taken into account. I can't see that we're facing so much nature conservation that it should take out all other considerations. In addition, the choice of option C reduces interventions significantly. Besides, it's not that the area is completely unaffected by human works. Others have pointed that out. The roadway will also be at the edge of the most valuable natural area. I feel sure that the natural interventions we are talking about here can live with us as well as the most intense conservationists. In an overall assessment, attention must also be paid to the fact that the northerly trachea amounts to 100 million. It is less expensive, even though it should not be decided solely on the matter. So my conclusion is that I can't see that the sum of the disadvantages of the northern trajectory and the possible benefits of the Hadself-Earth Tunnel suggests that the Stortinget should choose a different solution from that of the people in Lofoten. Finally, let me give a tribute to those who vote subsidiaryly for option C. It ensures the widest possible digestion, which can only work positively. The enormous expectations created in Lofoten, among others: in the construction of a bridge over the Raftsundet, is now being implemented. And it is good both for people in Lofoten and for the political environment.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e752	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e755	When the Storting today decides where the Lofoten's mainland connection is going to go, it is after many years of discussion about the choice of trasé. During the Committee on Transport's opinion in Lofoten, we met a tremendous commitment, especially from the inhabitants of the Municipality of Wagan. As a Westerner, I'm used to social issues involving most people, but I have to admit that this was overwhelming. The government's assessment of the hearing gap is to recommend the tunnel under Hadselsfjorden. The Directorate of Nature Management, the Riksantikvaren, the County of Nordland, the Department of Environmental Protection of the County of Troms and the Directorate of Roads are in favour of this solution. For the Left, the fact that all the trade unions have recommended the Hadselsfjord tunnel has been strongly emphasized when we chose this option. The area of Øksfjord/Indrefjord is one of the few remaining intact fjord landscapes in Norway that are free of major technical interference. The peculiar coastal alpine nature, the cultural heritage of the Island of Husjord and the entire water catchment area of a protected watercourse are of national value. In this area also, some bird species are vulnerable, and some are directly threatened. We have a duty to preserve these species and their habitat. The consequences for the environment, therefore, are very difficult in the Left's choice of trajectory. Connecting the Lofoten and the Vestreål better together in regional cooperation is also an important argument for the Hadselfjord tunnel. 60-70 pst. Vesterålen is the address of the traffic from Lofoten. A number of Western and Lofoten companies have a common market and/or a common raw material supply area. The two regions have products and services that are identical and complement each other, with opportunities for coordination and networking. The need for professional competence and the need to maintain professional competence as one has, and making the Lofoten and the West Pole more attractive to new locations make it possible to choose infrastructure that binds the regions together. The public also has some features that today produce services for the inhabitants of both regions. A large region can provide better services in the fields of transport, communication, health services and education. There are several numbers on the Stortinget to build Lofoten's continental link after the north trasé. Left suggests that option C-U, which is a multiple in the Nordic county, would be the best option for a very northern trajectory, but the left will subsidiaryly vote for option C as the second best solution, to ensure that option A does not get multiples. Otherwise I will join Ola Røtveg's personal wish as he expressed at the end of his article.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e778	I will not add up to any long summary of the debate, but there may be a need for at least a few comments and perhaps a clarification from the Council of State. The representative Myrvoll had pious desire to get to some extraordinary group meetings. I think it might be a little bit difficult. I think the peppercakes are taken out, and it's enjoyed in different hooks here in the house. In addition to that, I would say that the Workers' Party has had a thorough partial and professional treatment of the matter. As has been said by several speakers, there are many good arguments for all the options. But I'm holding on to what I said in my main post, I think this axis of choosing the northern trajectory and maintaining the internal connection between Sortland and Lofoten, will provide equivalent connections for the Western and Lofoten towards E6 and towards the rest of the world. Ergo I think this might look like the golden triangle. There's also a number of these 180 million. kr that the C-alternative costs. Yeah, that's $180 million. to take environmental considerations into account in relation to the two options. Not everyone likes to put a price tag on it, but I think it's okay. Governments were in the net, and it's a good tool. And we're going to use net benefits, but net benefits won't take into account social development. So there'll be assessments that we'll have to do in the different cases. At the same time, I agree with the Council of State in the new arrangement, that when the project comes to grant it should have a security of +/-10 pst. in relation to costs. At the same time, the Council of State referred to the treatment of the transport plan, and I am fully aware that we need to make different assessments and priorities between the individual tribal roads and the tribal road projects. What I feel is a bit of a need for the Council of State to clear up, is that the Council of State has concluded, namely that if there was a cost gap in relation to the option that might be chosen here tonight, then the Council of State, as I perceived him, would come back to Stortinget with it in relation to an assessment of other options. If that's not right, it's only positive if the government could solve that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e795	The most important thing about today's debate is that we finally get a clarification on the trasé elections for Lofoten's mainland connection. I assume that this will be the last round, and that everyone will accept the result that the Storting will achieve tonight. It is not a secret that I have always thought and still believe that the Hadself-Earth tunnel will be the best solution for Lofoten's mainland connection. But I think we all have to be so liberal now when we're at the bottom of the Lofast discussion, that we can say that all the options will provide a better communication pattern and better communications in the Northland region than we have today. At least there will be no more than nuance differences in the overall relationship between the different options. That's why it's important that everyone accepts what you come up with today, that you dig every battle quest and work together in the future. I think the champions of the north trasé, because that's who's going to win tonight, can celebrate. And it'll probably be celebrating with champagne and stuff in Lofoten today. But I must also say that after hearing the statements of the Council of State, they should perhaps consider celebrating a little by way and hiding some of the noble drink until later. The Council of State was somewhat curious as to whether it was possible to imagine that there was money to build this road further relatively quickly. It shows that there is clearly still a struggle to fight in northern Northern Norway to secure funds for communications, and it is rather clever that a project like this, which will mean a great deal to the population and economic development of the region, should not be prioritised when you know how much money you can spend on saving a couple of small waters down here in the East. I also reported that the Council of State gave signals, as far as I could see, that he would assess the costs in more detail, and that he suggested that a rematch could be made here. If that is the case, I will strongly warn against it. Although, in principle and initially, I have an alternative to what is being chosen today, I don't want for anything in the world to get a rematch on this matter. Now it is important that the regions of the north of the North are united on what is being adopted today, that we get that road built and that we can use it so that the Lofoten and the West can become together the region of the north that has the best prospects for the future. I think that can happen, but it requires that we put all the battle behind us, and that we stand together about the result we get tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e808	I am pleased that it appears that the Storting today in the treatment of St. report. No 53 for 1997-98 on the continental link of Lofoten, cf. Inner. S. No 73, ensures the majority of the solution Lofoten wants. Not only the Lofoten, but also the South Troms, where I come from, and the north of the North, for the rest, are concerned with the trasé elections. The municipality of Harstad, my municipality of residence, is in the direction of the northern trajectory. The Regional Council of South Trom, consisting of the municipalities of Kväfjord, Bjarkøy, Harstad, Skånland and Ibestad and Ofotsamverket, with Tysfjord, Ballangen, Narvik and Evenes, Tjeldsund and Lødingen municipalities, all enter the northern trasé. Christian People's Party in Troms and Nordland, Ofoten Regional Council of the Christian People's Party, the party's local team in the South Troms region, Narvik and Harstad Christian People's Party are all in favour of northern trasé. I am therefore on a secure basis both with regard to the local party apparatus and their handling of the matter and as a resident in the densely populated area of North Norway. For us, the arguments about distance and economics are important. Driving distance is also important for the environment, which is also an important argument in the matter of choosing a trajectory. The rapporteur, Terje Fjordbakk, in the municipality of Skånland, who is otherwise head of the state road network, has calculated the environmental impacts in terms of CO2 emissions. With an annual traffic of 20 train trains to Lofoten – probably much higher – the increase in fuel consumption with the Hadself-earth option will result in emissions of 525 600 kg of CO2. Emissions remain in densely populated areas at the tunnel mouths and in Stokmarknes and Blackland. The Committee, in its recommendation on trasé elections, will take a great deal of account of the natural landscape along Øksfjord and Indrefjord. One of the industrial interests in the area, represented by Reineier Oddgeir Andersen, is in favour of northern trasé, according to the Lofot post of 16 November. End: The northern trasé provides the shortest possible route from Lofoten to the mainland. The northern trasé produces less CO2 emissions. The northern trasé opens a unique fjord landscape for several walkers, disabled people and others who otherwise cannot enjoy the area. Northern trasé option C takes into account the natural landscape. Northern trasé option C is cheaper than the tunnel option. I am pleased on behalf of the whole region to say that I support the committee position.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e841	This is a matter that has a tremendous attention in the part of North Norway that it concerns, and there have been good arguments in the debate for both main options. When I choose to go into the tunnel alternative under the Hadself Earth, it's primarily because the ratio today is that about 70 pst. by traffic over the Hadself-Earth via the ferry link Fiskeböl-Melbu is internal traffic. My argument is that we get a trigger where the population essentially lives. We are cutting ourselves off from an opportunity to connect two of the strongest regions in North Norway, where today transport is very much internal to the Lofoten and the Vesterål to transport raw materials between the processing companies. I'm a little afraid that we're denying ourselves the opportunity we have to connect two strong regions to one single market, and that the result may be that instead we can split the regions apart. I think that in the long term it might be harmful for both parties, even if – as I mentioned in the introduction – there are many ways in which strong and good arguments have been put forward for both of the two main options. Finally, I would just like to say, as several others have been involved, that today there are many who feel that they have lost a big and very important thing, and most of them belong in the Western region. At the same time, however, there is every reason to congratulate Lofoten on what will be the final outcome after today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e850	I perceive that not all speakers have followed the call of the representative, Røtvej, for a good Christmas mood and take everything in the best possible sense. After I actually used the main weight of my post to establish that the trasé option is being clarified today, however, someone has clear to hear it as if I thought it was not. I'm deeply surprised because what I was thinking about for those who participate in the transport debates in Stortinget is that we don't always have the money we want. But I can then perceive the input that has come from a number of representatives, so that they now with a strong commitment – significant commitment – in their respective party groups will blow these frames on later occasions. That's how I have to interpret it. All the evidence that has come to it today delights in the heart of a Minister of Transport, and I understand that this is the approach to a cross-political uprising of such a force that it may make the treatment of the national transport plan both local and national not as demanding as it could otherwise be. It was a realistic replay and a dialogue with the representative Oddvar Nilsen, who is the chairman of the committee, which made me come up with these words, because in the project we are talking about, where the trasé elections are now being clarified, and which will be planned and followed, it has been a 50 pst increase, and it would be absolutely fine if all projects with 50 pst. increase was provided within all road-planning frameworks in the coming years. What we can say about it is that it is the Storting that determines it by the annual budget, and that it is the Storting that gets it when the national transport plan comes. But I will take it in the spirit of the representative, Mr Røtveis: I know that it is in the beginning a kind of popular exodus for wider mobility. I even hear such voices in the ranks of social democracy in the hall, and I am very happy when it comes to Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e857	I have a great deal of understanding for those who want to preserve the Ingelsfjord, Indrefjord and Øksfjord area as it is. Sense if the area is not untouched by human activity, there is a difference between a valley with and a valley without road. However, I believe that the C-alternative meets some of the environmental concerns. I have also understood this so that the rock masses at any tunnel can be used in the road construction, so that there is a balance in the mass account. The Hadself-Earth option also has environmental consequences, with increased transit traffic through the agglomerations and large increases in the tunnel, which will lead to extra large exhaust emissions. I am particularly concerned about how the huge rock masses that arise by breaking a tunnel on this length can be used or deposited. It is mentioned in the Storing Notice that the rock masses can be used for the organisation of the nutrition area, but I find it difficult to imagine that all the rock masses can be used in this way. In addition, when one takes into account distance, road safety – then I think of the danger that can arise in a tunnel with so steep ends, and on condensation and what it can lead to when the road is so steep – and of the investments that have already taken place, the economy, both with construction and operation, and local democracy, I think that the northern trajectory is clearly preferable. To meet environmental concerns, I will support option C.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e866	The representative Røtweg said that group meetings were so difficult tonight, because there were so many representatives in the hooks and they ate pepper cake. I hope they don't eat so much pepper cake that they can't participate in the voting tonight. I assume it may also be a problem with pepper cake. So some representatives, not least from the Workers' Party, have said that now this must be the last round. It sounds like a heart attack. But this round we have because the Workers' Party wanted to explore the tunnel – a reasonable wish. That's why we have this round, so there's no reason for any heartache over it. But what it could be a round of, is that there will be some objections and anchors on the environmental side, even if a select C option, from a number of instances, organisations, etc. Maybe it'll take time. I'm just making it clear – I assume you've thought through it. They say the area is not untouched. No, but it's about heavier, technical interventions to build a road. It's something else to build a road than that there's a power line there. If you start to think like that in general, there won't be much left of the guidelines that Stortinget zejl has wanted for road construction. I want to quote again what the county says: ‘The impact study clearly shows that the implementation of Lofast via Indrefjord – Øksfjord has a significant, partly very negative impact on the natural environment, landscape and outdoor life. All options via Nordre trasé [[except everything. H and I]] The statesman who said that, was a representative of the Transport Committee in the spring of 1989, when they dealt with Lofast, so she knows a little about what this is about, and has realized that it was not a good choice to take a northerly trajectory to Gullesfjord. North trasé to Sigerfjord, however, is acceptable, she says. But it's possible to talk for deaf ears here. So there's so many people who have said here now that option C is 100 million. kr cheaper than the tunnel. No one has wanted to comment on what I say: between Gullesfjord and Sigerfjord you get a traffic increase of 240 cars in 2005 – an estimate from the department – when this opens up. Already today, it is the area of such a nature that something should be done about it. That price tag is 110 million. kr, and it is included in the price of the tunnel and in the Sigerfjord option, but not in the Gullesfjord option. Does a person really mean that nothing is going to be done in that area? Unfortunately, the committee drove to Gullesfjord, the bus turned around, so the committee could not run that route, but there should be something done. That means that the tunnel, as far as now, and option C have the same price. In reality, the Sigerfjord option also has the same price, with the things I brought up in my main post. I just have to say that there's some argument here that doesn't hold the goal. It's possible that's because someone started eating pepper cakes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e887	The Central Party member of the Committee on Transport, Jorunn Ringstad, has made an excellent presentation of the views of the Centre Party on this matter. When I take the floor anyway, it's because I think it's hard to stop participating in a debate where we're making a decision that's essential for the area we're talking about here. It's the biggest project in this sector that we've made decisions about at the time I've been on the Stortinget. The Western Pole has shown great commitment to this matter in conjunction with the other regions. I would like to say that the decision we are going to take today has not only a transport policy aspect but also, to the greatest extent, a regional policy aspect. In its assessment, the Council of State has stressed the potential for development in a closer link between the Lofoten and the Vesterålen. That's a good argument, and that's an argument that you can't ignore in any way. However, when in this case I have the same view as my party, despite my being a western eel, living in the Western eel, and some therefore expect me to support the Hadself-Earth Tunnel, this has to do with the following: The regional policy dimension of linking the Lofoten, Ofoten and the West eel has been of central importance in my assessment of this. We are talking here about the largest region in North Norway, the most populous region in North Norway, an area that, in total, has great potential for development, and which I think it makes sense to have a closer link between it. I have also stressed in my assessment the transport policy dimension of solving an old well-founded road requirement from Lofoten, in order to get the fastest possible route of administration to the mainland. Like Jorunn Ringstad, I believe that the choice of option A is acceptable from an environmental point of view, while at the same time it is clearly cheapest and thus also offers opportunities to solve other heavy tasks, such as: in the same region. I will honestly admit that there are other alternatives that, from a purely environmental point of view, are better, but in my opinion, option A is acceptable. In the same way that the representative Ringstad has already signaled on behalf of the Centre Party, I will also support Option C subsidiaryly, and in the same way as several before me, I am glad that we have concluded and made a decision on a long-term issue of transport policy and regional policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e899	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1433]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e907	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e913	During the debate, Kristin Halvorsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The Socialist Left Party's proposal and then the vote will be voted on first. Johan J. Jakobsen – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e918	In the Central Party, we have some sympathy for the proposal. At the same time, it may not be very appropriate to have it down. I would therefore ask the SV to turn it into a transmission proposal. If, however, there is a vote on it, I would ask the Group of the Party of European Socialists to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e923	On the basis that the central government party will clearly continue to work on the issue, I would ask that the proposal be sent.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e928	The proposal by the Socialist Left has then been turned into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘The Government is advised to investigate the use of referendums on essential issues relating to the relationship between Norway and the EU and to provide it to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e951	I have been hurt to vote incorrectly. I voted completely insanely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e958	And that won't the representative Røss soil be hanging on? Can the President indicate that the result is 84 votes in favour of the vote and 21 votes against?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e963	It helps, President.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e970	Then the vote was taken by 84 to 21 votes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e1001	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1 by Thore Aksel Nistad, on behalf of the Party of Progress, the Right and the Central Party, on proposal No. 2, by Mr Kofoed-Larsen on behalf of Mr Left and Mr Kofoed-Larsen 3, from Inge Myrvoll on behalf of the Socialist Left Party When proposing the order in which we are now voting, the President would normally choose the fraction size as the criterion. However, it has been expressed in the vote and in the debate on the request for a vote by a subsidiary, which means that the President will propose that voting be put up as follows: First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, by the Socialist Left Party, then by proposal No. I, by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the No objections have been raised to this, and that is what will be done. Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The continental connection of the lofoet is continued after option I to Sigerfjord.2. A revision of the option is considered by going over Brotware.»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e1033	Proposal No 1 from the Party of Progress, the Right and the Centre shall be taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for Northern Trasé, option A, to be the basis for the further planning of Lofoten’s continental link.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e1047	Proposal No. 2, from the Left and the representative Rigmor Kofoed-Larsen, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a tunnel under Hadselfjorden for the further planning of Lofoten’s continental link.’ The Progress Party has announced subsidized support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e1069	Subsidiary support for this has been announced from the Progress Party, the Right, the Centre Party, the Left and the representative Kofoed-Larsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-2.ana.ud2503e1095	There is no record.
