ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e72	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e77	I propose Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e82	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and Asmund Kristoffersen are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and Asmund Kristoffersen are unanimously elected as presidents of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e94	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administration, the President will propose that the debate on the budgetary position be divided into two, so that the framework areas 1 and 2 are first dealt with and then the framework area 3. – This is deemed to be adopted. At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the debate on the framework areas 1 and 2 be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, and that the debate on the framework area 3 be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 35 minutes in each debate, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 15 minutes in each debate, the Centre Party 5 minutes in the first debate and 10 minutes in the second debate, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes in each debate. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted. Then we start with the frame areas 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e107	As a committee leader, I am pleased with a good and constructive cooperation in the management of the budget of the committee, a committee that has stood on both day and night to get the setting in port at the right time. I expect the different parties to take their point of view, so I want to focus most on the Christian People's Party's view. The main objective of the Christian People's Party in family policy is to facilitate good growth and living conditions for children and young people, a safe economic situation for families with children and full equality between women and men. I am pleased that the Storting will today adopt the introduction of cash support also for two-year-olds. Cash support provides extended flexibility, which young children’s parents have long wanted. Families are given the opportunity to take care of their own children. The cash support payment in December shows that 76.3 pst. of those who have children of a cash-assisted age want to benefit from the scheme. It shows that this reform is very uproaring. Home care for a period will also be beneficial in strengthening the community, both for children and adults and for the older generation. In the adjusted draft budget for which the Progress Party and the Right have notified subsidiary support, a now continues with the small child allowance in the family allowance to all and reduces the cash support about the corresponding infant allowance. It's especially nice that one of these things can go on with the double babysitting plug-in to single caregivers. The infant supplement was introduced as a precursor to cash support. The working party proposes, in its budget statement, to remove each crown for cash support from 1 January 1999. Should it have had multiples, many young children's parents had turned their lives upside down by losing an economic advantage they've planned for, without a transitional arrangement and in the middle of a nursery year. It seems to me like an unprofessional suggestion. In order to have a real freedom of choice, it's important to have enough nursery places, and it's the center administration busy. Good and educational kindergartens are important. Kindergartens are a good supplement to family care, also for children with special needs. The goal of children's gardening for everyone who wants to do so is to be established in 2000. It's positive that the government comes up with a big message about the kindergartens for spring. Many private kindergartens are currently experiencing a difficult economic situation. A plurality of the Committee, consisting of the Progress Party, the Right and the Centre Parties, suggests that the Government is following the pediatric situation closely and assesses the need for any action for 1999 in the context of the revised national budget. For the Christian People's Party, it is an objective that parents themselves should choose the form of care they want for their children. Adopting a child from abroad is expensive. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to provide a cash supplement to parents who adopt children from abroad, in order to prevent biased social distribution if adoption was linked to their parents' economy. The figure will also be NOK 22 000 in 1999. According to the National Association for Public Health figures, eight out of ten parents believe that the parent role is more difficult today than 25 years ago. So many as one in three feel that parents leave each other before the children are 16 years old. Life conflicts and crimes very often lead to major personal problems for those involved. According to UNGFAM, the Society Centre at Modum Bad, the relationship between parents is the single factor that strongly affects children’s expectations of their own future adulthood and life. It is important that policy-makers capture these signals and consider prevention measures. Many places are queues to join a life course, a course for common people with common problems. The aim of parental guidance and co-operation measures is to help support the community and strengthen the role of parents in caring and responsibilities. This effort is important in the prevention work to prevent problems among children and young people. Family protection offices carry out a particular important work in relation to both counselling and mediation. It is positive that the Ministry will consider strengthening family protection at national level. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to prevent divorce, but it is equally important to provide help and support for those who live alone with children. The Christian People's Party is occupied by the children's situation and grew up without regard for how parents set up their lives. But I wonder that both the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party would like to delete the post Samlivstål on the state budget. I am pleased that a majority in the Committee ensures that this positive preventive action is successful. The entire committee is busy creating a good childhood and youth breeding environment. Voluntary children’s and young people’s organisations carry out an important effort to build a positive and healthy environment that works to prevent both violence, drug addiction and racism. A majority of the committee has re-prioritized 1 million. to the organisations of children and young people. The Christian People's Party considered funding both for development programmes to strengthen the growing-up environment and youth action in larger urban communities to be important. In addition, there is a new post, Youth Action in the District, which is part of the government’s district effort. Problem behaviour associated with power, bullying, crime, violence and racism is not just happening in the largest cities. It is therefore important that government agencies also have the potential to support targeted efforts to improve the growth environment in the smaller urban and rural communities that face particular challenges in this area. A good childhood and youth environment could stimulate young people to live in the districts. The Committee found cooperation to be positive across departments. Action plan for reducing the use of drugs and action plan in the fight against the use of drugs in public places has been highlighted by the Committee as important measures for a better environment for children and young people. In its comments, the Labour Party has a number of measures to fight against the rule of law. Many of the proposed measures are positive, but it is striking that the Labour Party has not even mentioned the close relationship that the research points to between the exercise of power and the use of alcohol. It is important that child protection services have a high level of legal certainty and quality at all stages of treatment. In recent years, the Child Protection Service has undergone extensive efficiency and qualitative improvement. Nevertheless, some of the child-resistance services still need to be strengthened and strengthened. It is positive that the Department will continue to develop the supply of children and young people with serious behavioural difficulties, measures to postpone children and young people and families with a migrant background, and the prevention work. Many foster parents do a great job. In this setting, there is a multiple comment about foster homes. In closer study, we see that the center part could also have joined it. I'm glad the department is already working on a follow-up mission. An offensive equality policy is important. It's the Christian People's Party occupied by. It is positive that the Governments now have a revision of the Equality Act. Crisis centres, incest centers and emergency telephones carry out important work. The crisis response is an important complement to public relief measures for people who are being attacked. Most cases of violence and abuse occur in the world. Precautionary measures are important. It is positive that the entire Committee is in favour of the release of emergency measures being transformed into an estimate from 1999. The refurbishment of the Castle has been a great deal of discussion. It is positive that the entire committee expresses that the castle is part of our common national history, and that it will be a caretaker if the building is not kept by the same. Rehabilitation of the Castle, which is an old building, has been a task that has not been so easy to calculate in advance. A majority of the Committee understands that both State Building and Castle want a more thorough review of both the details, the cost framework and the progress of the remaining work before the mandatory cost frameworks are presented to the Stortinget. It is important that the refurbishment work is completed, and I am pleased that the Government will come back with the matter in the revised national budget. It is positive that the department has created a multidisciplinary selection to address the ongoing maintenance needs of the royal estates. State buildings are advisers in construction and property matters, builders, property managers and property developers of the departments and state agencies. The Committee agrees with the Ministry's assessments of the governance and organisation of State Buildings and has noted that the Ministry will review this in the light of changes in the company's external framework conditions. The Committee calls for an evaluation of the procedure for establishing the upper-cost framework for the individual construction projects and for the Storting to be informed in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e158	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e161	Molvær Grimstad has on several occasions explained what is both right and normal family, so here too. As head of the family committee, her view is given importance, because it also becomes part of the government's family policy. We know that condemnation threatens gay people's mental health and living conditions, even when they as a group are not mentioned in her posts. Condemning whipping scares many not to dare to be who they are. Some people actually can't stand it. We know that from the suicide figures. I believe that Molvær Grimstad does not have the right to participate and make life more difficult for a very tried and tested group. The question for the head of the family committee is: what must homosexuals do, how must they behave, and what must they do to be included as full merit in the pronounced family policy of the Government and the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e168	The homosexuals and lesbians are also fully worthy of the Christian People's Party – of course they are. When one discusses this with the gay environment, there is a part that owes us that we don't accept the gay because we didn't go in for the partnership law, but it's wrong. There was a lot of discussion within the Workers' Party about one going in for the law of partnership. They went in to arrange the practical through a household community law instead of entering into the law of partnership. When it comes to our view of the gays, we accept and respect them fully. But one has to separate the political things, what one goes in for. The representative Knudsen has our offensive in relation to having the gays get equal rights to adoption, in line with others. I want to show you that the Minister for Children and Family has started a job in the Department to look at the children who live in relationships where parents are gay or lesbian to ensure their dishes. It's actually more than what the Labour Party did in its time, when they put in government. When it comes to having equal rights to adopt, I think that when Rikard Olsvik of the Workers' Party went into the law of partnership, it was a premise for him not to be used as a breaker in a fight to get gay and lesbians to adopt on the same line with others. It was the Labour Party's own representative who was heavy on the scale, and with the foundation and promise he was given, he filed for the partnership law. I sometimes feel that one sort of twists the discussion to become a struggle for the needs of adults rather than the needs of children. I see a lot of people in the Workers' Party who agree with us, and it doesn't matter at all that we have a negative view of the gay and lesbians.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e179	The Christian People's Party, in its opinion, points out that they are particularly positive that the Government prioritises competence training in the field of child protection. They are particularly positive that the Government will strengthen the prevention of child protection, etc. Does this mean that the Christian People's Party, and possibly the Government, is now interested in and perhaps on its way to moving towards the fact that experts in child protection matters and child distribution matters are also receiving the same disintegration in the matter of empowerment? We know today that the appointment of experts is done in the county or in court. However, there is no practice at all in Norway to impose quality requirements or quality assurance requirements on our experts. Time and again, experts are checking the law and order in Norway. Is it that way to understand now, when also the Christian People's Party is very concerned with raising their competences in this area, that they will also be with the Advance Party to find an additional direction of study, perhaps in particular within the 2nd Department, clinical psychology, which will mean that they will also receive higher quality and will be able to participate in ensuring that we receive proper treatment in child distribution matters?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e188	Good competences within the field of child protection are important. It is important to be able to provide good and accurate treatment, so that a set of measures, both in relation to the children and to the parents in question, are implemented. Therefore, it is important that we keep focusing on this with quality assurance in relation to the competence of those who work with this. Government and Christian People's Party are positive for empowerment and to focus on quality. It shows what the Government has put forward in the staging proposition, and there's also something we'll follow up on. When it comes to what the representative here points to in relation to the experts, I agree that it is important to follow it in particular. If you're going to go in the direction that the representative here points to, I'm a little bit unsure, but at least we're generally concerned about the quality of the work of those who work in this area, and we're always going to follow developments.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e195	I noticed that the Christian People's Party was pleased with the help they had received from the Right to provide the cash support with a correct design, that the small child supplement was retained, and that one could thus also retain the flexibility in the cash support that was essential to us. I am pleased that the government party appreciates this help. Yesterday we received signals from the Minister for Child and Family Affairs that she would assess the choice of care of parents in the context of an evaluation of the cash support, and if parents chose the day-mother instead of the nursery, this would provide a basis for assessing the cash support. It was precisely the freedom of choice for parents who were so important, that parents should not be almost required to use kindergarten if they were working, but that they should have an freedom of choice in relation to the form of care that best suited their children in their situation. Since an evaluation of the cash support reform will have to be done not only at the ministerial level, but will have to be taken into consideration here in Stortinget, it has a certain importance for us in the Right to know how the Christian People's Party's big group is dealing with this issue. Is it so that the Christian People's Party will actually go back on parental freedom of choice if parents make choices that the Christian People's Party does not like?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e204	After yesterday's debate in Political Quarter, I realized that there would be a little debate in the media in relation to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs' announcement. That's why I got a print of what she actually said in Political Quarter. When you look at both the questions and the answers in context, you see that she hasn't said it like the representative from the right here made it. She would not consider her parents’ choices, but she focused on the fact that if very many people benefit from a day’s mother/worker, it may – and I agree – be that one in the evaluation should perhaps look at schemes that they have, for example. In Finland, where they have a registration system for day mothers in municipalities, there is, in fact, also an offer of training for them, so that there were measures in the direction of which the Minister for Children and Family expressed his opinion and in which I agree. For the Christian People's Party, it is not relevant in an evaluation to go away from the possibility of receiving cash support at the same time as a benefit from the day-mother/worker, but there are different aspects of this that you can look at through the evaluation, to see if there is a need to improve the quality of those who are a day-mother/worker, if that would be desirable. There are different aspects of this that I thought we should look at more. In the debate on cash support and the day mother/worker it seems that if a user of the day mother/worker, the children get less time with their parents than if they had been in kindergarten. But if the choice is between kindergarten and a day mother, and parents themselves think it's best with the day mother, they can, if they have a good day's mother they want to use, actually get more time together with the children. There are some parents who spend an hour both delivering their children to the nursery and an hour picking them up, as well as those who use the intern, will have the opportunity to have more time. That's what I don't feel in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e213	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e217	The Labour Party is very concerned about the development of violence in society. Violence often strikes harshly and brutally. In addition, violence creates fear and insecurity among many more. The Labour Party believes that violence must be combated by two main strategies. One is through new prevention measures in violence settings, and the other is through rapid reactions from the police present. I also want to stress, in the light of the debate we see in newspapers and media, that most cases of violence and abuse actually take place in the home. They are often hidden, and they are not reported. Therefore, it is also difficult to obtain sufficient statistics on the extent of this problem. But we know about someone who knows the problems, the crisis centers. We know something about the problem of violence statistically: half of the killings on women are actually committed by partners or former partners – the woman knows them, and most of the killings are in common or at home with the person involved. Tragic is the fact that children often witness domestic violence. Members of the Workers’ Party are concerned with preventing violence from being ‘hereditary’, so that, in particular, boys do not adopt the father’s violence pattern as a conflict-solving method. I think it is a crossroads of thought in the debate we are about to have, that the solutions to the problems of violence from the majority in this Chamber are more police in the streets when most cases of violence occur in the home. The working party is concerned that domestic violence in relation to women and children must be brought into the light. For this reason, it is also proposed to set up a separate public body, the Women's Violence Committee, which will review the issue of violence against children and women. But violence also happens outside the home. Oslo may have the greatest load of violence, but other major cities around Norway are also at risk. Today we see an increase in gross violence by children and young people, most with migrant backgrounds and organized into gangs. This development of gross violence among children and young people is very worrying; it is totally unacceptable and must be combated by all means. We need new knowledge, we need more research, we need more experience and development to see what we can do to prevent this violence in children and young people, and also against women. It is therefore a great disappointment to me that the civil parties can actually afford to use NOK 2.1 billion for cash support, but not SEK 50 million. research, foreground, development and action to prevent violence in these areas. The worst thing is maybe they're doing the opposite. To make room for their heart business, the cash support, they cut in many of the areas that actually matter to children and young people, who would give children and young people better quality of life. The Workers' Party has put forward a $50 million plan of violence. kr. I don't believe in any way that that's enough. When we see the social development that we have in front of us, it's actually just a little bit of a beginning. Why do the bourgeois parties not even want to see the problems? Today's research shows a clear link between social structure and social development and the growing-up environment and crime. Ensuring good growth and living conditions for children and young people is the main instrument for preventing and combating child and youth crime. When the bourgeois parties respond by lowering the criminal detainee and more police, there is actually no particularly good answer to the problems we face in the area of child and youth crime. We have to think new, and we have to think completely. The parties who believe that the cash support solves all these problems have made a serious mistake. We need to have knowledge of the mechanisms that bring children into gangs, and what code of honor is needed to be accepted by the gang, to mention something. Research from other countries can help us a bit on the way, but we also need to research in Norwegian conditions. What kind of measures are needed to satisfy young people entering the year 2000, so that they stay away from a criminal racetrack? The questions are many, and the answers are not cut off on research funds and more police alone. Something has happened in the Norwegian family policy in the last year. The rate of expansion of kindergartens is slowing down, parental payments are increasing, and the school leisure system is becoming more expensive. The government parties, together with the Right Party and the Advance Party, have tightened up the funding for the school leisure system, for family protection and child protection, and have reduced kindergarten development to a level that we were accustomed to in the 1980s. We could call this family policy in reverse. And the grant to the children's and youth organisations, which was to activate the young people on their own premises, is not being followed up at all. We're about to go into the year 2000, and one would expect all the political parties to be committed to creating a family policy for the future. In fact, I believe that this government has a dream of the 1950s as a model for its solutions in the field of family – mother at home, father in paid work, apparent peace and deportability. We, who experienced the 1950s and the family policy that was then pursued, know what the back of the medal was! This government and the bourgeois majority in the Grand Duchy have a heart cause that overshadows everything else, and that's the cash support. NOK 2.1 billion is to be paid, and now we've got the bill. In fact, those who pay for the cash support are also children and young people through the loss of their kindergartens, the loss of their school leisure arrangements, the loss of their security to get child protection that works. I think that this is about mother being at home and children going to be at home with mother, Christian People's Party fits well, but it rhymes very badly with what the Center Party has said about cash support. But it was before they got into the government, and it's perhaps more important for the central party to sit in the government than to go ahead and take their real stand. The central government and the bourgeois parties have this dream of the 1950s. I can assure you that the dream of the 1950s never comes true, because it is not shared by many people. When the Norwegian people saw what they had to pay, the support for cash support also disappeared. We can see that from the study done in the nations today. The new trends ahead of us are that more women and men are taking part in education, and more will take an active part in professional life. It’s an dawning man’s role debate, an exciting one, but we get more divorces and more who live alone with their children. People want safe and secure relationships for themselves and their children. And what kind of solutions do we present in family policy to ensure these requirements for people the most? The working party will have more children's playgrounds. People are asking for kindergarten places where they live, so they don't have to drive an hour to kindergarten, as the committee leader mentioned here was a problem. And that's why we have to spend NOK 2.1 billion on cash support. We want to build 10,000 more kindergartens than the government. Nor will we sit with our hands in prison and see that no new kindergartens are being built this year. Therefore, we will provide a stimulation grant of NOK 10 000 to the municipalities that build new kindergartens. The members of the Workers' Party are engaged in an efficient public sector and in the modernisation of both the central and public services. State buildings have been discussed both in connection with the reconstruction of the Castle and the construction of the New Rikshospital. I am convinced that in the future we will also need State Building, perhaps reorganized, and I expect the Council of State to come back to the Stortinget with a review of State Building. The role of citizens is important, in particular for the legal certainty of individual children. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e258	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e261	I could have talked a lot about that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e266	The President is not in doubt. But then there'll be a line chord change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e271	I would like to say to the representative Grethe Fossum that the Christian People's Party is also concerned with combating violence, the increasing wave of violence that we experience in society, and I would just like to remind you of the action plan that the Government has designed, «Security in the Centre», which lists a number of measures broken down into different departments. Some of these are already in progress, and some will be set to work in the coming time. I also mention in this context that the Government is concerned about the link between the use of violence and the abuse of drugs. In this context, there is also an action plan to reduce alcohol use. I want to challenge the representative Fossum at this very point, because in the many good comments from the Workers' Party in the setting today, there is something missing. I owe it to the representative Fossum to say that there are very many good actions that we stand together about and share, but this is exactly what the challenge of drugs is missing in the organisation of the Workers' Party. Is it in the pact with the traditions of the Workers' Party when you now so easily skip the relationship that we know there is between the use of drugs and violence? Then Grethe Fossum is concerned that you do not want to be granted because you are going to use the money for the cash support. I want to ask Grethe Fossum, who will now use the cash support money, among other things. for research and other measures against violence: when should the Workers' Party recognise that a law has been passed in this House on the introduction of cash support? The representative Fossum and the Workers' Party come in to cut the cash support from 1 January 1999. This is dramatic for all parents who have planned this. Is it in a good, solidarity attitude to disappoint all of these parents who have planned differently?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e278	I think what has happened to the Workers' Party violence package is incredibly interesting. I believe that the Christian People's Party has a very bad conscience, because they really wanted to follow up the Workers' Party's violence package, but they didn't have the opportunity, because all the money is tied to the cash support. And I think it reminds me of some kind of Christmas presage that we sometimes get for fun: it's nicely wrapped, and when we wrap it up, it's zero in content. For the Christian People's Party is involved in all the good remarks and all the plans that the Workers' Party has, but they do not grant a crown. They are doing exactly the opposite: to get the cash support financed, they are lowering the requirements for child protection, for family protection, I can mention crisis centres, etc. Then it was said here that the Workers' Party does not follow its drug policy. I would recommend the representative to read the Social Ministry's budget and what is there from the Workers' Party on drugs. But one thing surprises me: the Christian People's Party has a good cooperation with the Right and the Advance Party, which is the most liberal in the area of drugs. I think perhaps the Christian People's Party should answer to its own conscience instead of to me.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e287	The Labour Party and Grethe Fossum continue their monomane fight against the cash support. However, there are some conflicting signals in the Workers' Party, not so few either: on the one hand, cash support is the root of all evil in the Norwegian economy. On the other hand, the Workers' Party will not even characterise the cash support as a reform, it's kind of a bit too puzzled for it. For the Right, cash support is a real reform, the first breach of the Workers' Party's unified welfare policy. Freedom of choice, time with children and fair allocation of resources are the main objectives of cash support. Now we see that over 70 pst. by parents opt for cash support. Does this not show that the cash support reform is working? Does this not show that the Workers’ Party’s long - standing government was unable to make a satisfactory offer to parents and young children? Well, that's exactly what's the problem for the Workers' Party. Cash support is a long-term and loving reform, but the Labour Party is opposed. I believe the main reason for this is that the Workers' Party did not make this up itself. They will not call it a reform either. They want reform hegemony. And then the crocodile tears come from Grethe Fossum about kindergarten development. The Labour Party was unable to fix this during its reign, and now they let their frustration go beyond the electoral reform of cash support. Finally, the Workers' Party's alternative budget does not say one word about a package of measures against violence. Budget-in-one. S. In Framework Box 2, not one word says about an action plan against violence. I think this is cheap, political theater. I see the proposals, we support many of them, but the Workers' Party has not prioritised this until they were given the funds to use the cash support again.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e298	I noticed that the representative from the Right felt that something as serious as fighting the violence was a cheap point from the Workers' Party. We take this issue very seriously, and the reasons for it coming now are many. We actually had a national meeting on November 22nd, where we decided to fight the violence. We also have the tradition that the expert committees are given responsibility for their field. If the Right has another way of dividing their work into the Storting, they get to do it, but we're not leaving it to the Finance Committee to operate with that kind of policy. We couldn't do this with the kindergartens, it's said. We would have done it if we had been in government until the year 2000, and if we had not paid out NOK 2.1 billion for cash support. I think it's pathetic to hear the Right say every single time they're going to somehow defend the cash support, that there's a breach of the unified welfare policy of the Workers' Party. For what is the one-sided welfare policy that is being criticised? Yes, it is the offer of kindergartens. Is it true that the Right now criticises kindergartens because they are monotonous? Or is it a good offer for a child? They're criticizing the unit school we have. Isn't that a good school for the Norwegian youth? And they're criticizing the school leisure arrangements. All these welfare offers for children are Right-wing because they want cash support. The working party is mono-mantled against the cash support, it was said. Obviously, this is a basic political view that shows that we're not interested in paying people because they're not using a service. It goes far beyond the cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e307	The representative Fossum talked a lot about youth councils, but even this was to be set up financially against cash support. It seems that Fossum has just been completely unlocked and is only running the same disc. Otherwise, I have recorded that the Workers' Party in its comments on the problem of violence has not mentioned the close relationship that research shows between the exercise of power and the use of alcohol, which we have had a little time before. Here you can see Norwegian studies, such as: made by Spring, that 60-80 pst. Of the sorcerers, two thirds of their women killed were alcohol-induced, and 71 pst. in police-reporting cases of female abuse had alcohol-related causes. In the capital, the so-called filling is recorded as the main cause of death among young people. With this in mind, it must be important that we pursue a truly effective form of self-defence, which cannot be left out of the effort to reduce total alcohol consumption. The working party has now presented measures to counter the violence, and it is fine. But at the same time, the Labour Party is working to increase access to alcohol and serve places. Does the Working Party really not see the context here? Now I expect a really clear answer! It amazes me greatly in view of the Workers' Party, which has said history back in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e318	I'm sorry I have to run the same disc. It was actually that I felt that I was answering the same question after the question from the Christian People's Party representative, but let me do it again. The working party is concerned with drug problems, we're into alcohol. But in the name of truth, couldn't it be that the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, who have such fantastic good contact with the Advance Party and the Right, in their cooperation agreement, when they look so seriously at this problem, entered into and made an agreement on opening hours, on different drug measures that they wanted? Instead, this government is so busy sitting on the taboos that it swallows all the world's policies from the Storting in terms of drugs, without taking it seriously itself. I therefore think it becomes a bit too hymnical when they try to make it as if the Workers' Party is too free to float alcohol. I also want to say that the cash support is not a reform for the Workers' Party, but an action. I did not get the time to do that in my previous post. And with reform, the Labour Party believes that a new development is being created for the benefit of many people. We cannot see that the cash support gives more time to the children. Therefore, we simply want another way to give more time to children and parents. That is what we will call a reform. Cash support is a measure that the majority of citizens have wanted since the 1950s, and now it has. Do not demand that the Labour Party go back into family policy! We want a family policy for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e330	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e334	I want to start my post where the previous post was completed. The Labour Party does not have a family policy future. Throne Greece from the Right used the term ‘political theatre’. The Labour Party is running political fools. The Labour Party presents this plan of violence as its main concern in its family policy work. It is also a fool's game, because in the Workers' Party's comments it is clear what is the main family policy action of the Workers' Party in the future: it is to provide all children's playgrounds. The Progress Party has been involved in a settlement that has been cut in different areas. In our alternative budget, we reduce appropriations even more on different chapters. I understand that it provokes, but in total, we're increasing the frame in Framework Area 2 by almost 700 million. kr, simply because we wanted to keep the child's back as it is. But when we cut in these areas, in child protection, equality and research, it's based on recording what states we've got in society under a workers' party rule. I am thinking about family resolution, child protection problems, juvenile delinquency, etc. It is then quite easy for me to ask whether the last 20 years of family policy, with great resources for research and gender equality, state acquisition of child education, parental guidance, community action, child and youth protection measures and various other child and youth measures, have worked in terms of purpose and objective. I believe that today's situation confirms that they have not achieved the goal. And now at least we can't sit and wait any longer for the Workers' Party's preventive medicine to work. There's too many fates to it. I must be allowed to demand creativity – or perhaps I should demand will – to realize that even more resources for the same measures in a way are repair work. Indirectly, the Workers' Party admits that their prevention work has not been satisfactory when they are overnight, and in 12 hours, authoring a plan of action against violence, against the negative trends we have, and then suddenly, when they are in opposition, finds 50 million. NOK to this. The Progress Party also shares many of the views expressed in this Action Plan, but the fact that we have been accused of sabotage by signaling membership of the Workers' Party's comments is the reason why the Workers' Party is alone. And maybe it's just as well that they get to stand alone, because they've, after all, gone out of politics. The party of progress does not want to use more medicine of that variety. The only new thing in this plan is that it's now going to be researched on the human role and put down a female violence selection. I hope that the Workers' Party through research on men may find the answer to why such conditions have arisen in society. There are already such research results, and I am convinced that those results do not fall into the taste of the Workers' Party. I could have spent half an hour on the research results available from the United Kingdom and the United States. The Progress Party is pleased that we have received NOK 200 000 to allow the Association 2 Parents in 1999 to hold a conference dealing with all the problems that arise because we have had a family policy that has resulted in us now having 200,000 young people with only one parent. 50,000 of these kids don't have contact with the other biological parent at all, and it's mostly father. At that conference, I hope we will get some answers, so that we can do something about all the problems that arise after breakups and divorces, which are increasing also because of the family policy that has been pursued for 20 years.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e350	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e353	In previous debates on child and family policy, the representative Sandberg has made very strong accusations against the policy pursued by the Workers' Party. 'Play a fool', says Sandberg today. The Labour Party has led to a policy that has led to dissolution. I have to say that now, as the Progress Party has got such a strong hand on the steering wheel of what is happening in Norwegian economic policy, it is going to be very exciting to see if there will be any change in family policy and if there will be less disintegration than we have seen now. The Progress Party likes to present the Labour Party's policy as a model and a state-directed policy, where parents are to be denied access to their own children. In my opinion, the Progress Party very well reveals its view of kindergartens in that way. I believe that the Progress Party has in many ways become the new Ole Brumm party in Norwegian politics. We remember very well the production of the Norwegian economy last spring as a gloss picture – a statement that Norway had won a huge amount in Lotto, so it was just spending. Does the Progress Party and Sandberg continue to believe that the situation in the Norwegian economy is such, and how can it be done to achieve the objective of the Progress Party that there should be a real opportunity to opt out of one labour income? How much is the aid to be granted by the State and what total costs will this entail for the State? So short to the kindergartens: In the budget debate last year, the representative Sandberg said that the Workers' Party is pursuing a purely guardian policy. Does Sandberg believe the many parents of children between three and six years of age in this country experience the policies of the Progress Party and the Government as exemplary? After all, they run a hard-hitting race on one issue and forget the need for safe pedagogical care that there are actually thousands of children waiting in queue and asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e364	In particular, the Progress Party has a desire to extend the cash support to all children up to school-leaving age. I know that it is also strongly opposed to what the Workers' Party wants, and I am convinced that the Workers' Party has a goal of compulsory kindergarten for all children until compulsory schooling. I have asked about it before and received different answers to it. The economic part: the working party is very concerned about the costs of the cash support. Let me try to find a comparison. The working party wants to double the maternity leave. The working party wants 100 pst. child care coverage by the year 2000. My simple question in return to the representative of the Workers' Party is: Does the Workers' Party have a proceeds on the costs of this, if it is such that they succeed in getting 70 pst. by all children up to school age entering kindergartens? Does the Workers' Party have a proceeds that contain not only the State operating aid but also the municipal operating aid? I'm afraid that the representative Bekkelem Orheim here will be surprised when the numbers are put on the table. And then the financial support is very small in relation to this. I think the Workers' Party should find new angles to attack the cash support if they are to continue this out of the period. I believe, as the representative of the Central Party said, that the entire Workers' Party has simply gone ‘on the verge’, because, for once, they have not got their will.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e373	The Progress Party, in its alternative budget, has struck a lot of the funds that go towards equality. When it comes to Equality Competence Centres, they suggest removing the rights, and they propose to end the Equality Trust in the long term, initially reducing the rights. Does not the Progress Party see the value of developments in gender equality policy in recent years, the value of getting more equality between women and men both in terms of equal pay, the impact of women on employment and industry, and in terms of equality of care? I believe that society actually becomes a better society to live in when we get more women into some governing bodies. Equally important is to bring men into organs where there is under-representation of men. For example, in nursing, which is largely female-dominated, it is important to get more men in. Isn't the Progress Party at all concerned about getting more equality and a better equality policy in society? When one looks back, would the Progress Party have been in addition to the developments in the field of equality, which the Christian People's Party considered important? We're glad that we're going to have a review of the equality law, and that we're going to get a statement on that later. So one last little question, and it applies to adoption. It's very expensive to adopt children from abroad. The Progress Party proposes in its alternative budget to reduce the propensity for adoption. Isn't it that they get a good economic advantage from the state, a little important to prevent social differences between those who can afford to adopt children from abroad and those who can't afford it?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e380	Yes, the Progress Party significantly reduces the appropriations for gender equality. We are quite alone about it. I can only briefly say that we find other tasks that we want to prioritise in the run-up to gender equality. I'll explain. We find other areas to spend these millions on. We see no reason why we should spend several million dollars in 1998 on healthy, up-to-date, competent, adult people, who under the Gender Equality Act would definitely do this by themselves. It's also worth noting in this context. The intentions of the Gender Equality Act are pursued in many areas, in particular in terms of the fact that all the adult people I have mentioned are organised in some form of professional organisation or other organisation, which also devotes considerable resources to promoting the intentions of gender equality and equality. Therefore, the Progress Party does not see any reason for the public to grant so many kroner for that work.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e385	Now the Right and Advance Party, together with the Government Parties, form a majority in this budgetary position. It is true that when the Right has got a hand on the steering wheel, it gets quite often much better than it was originally. We are pleased that the Progress Party has put itself in place in the range of good decisions that we are going to make today. But when I look at the Progress Party primary budget, I get a little startled. I'm very happy that the Progress Party is moving into a community, so we don't have to sit around with it, but that doesn't mean that the Advance Party is going to get completely out of the appropriations they would actually have proposed. We've been together about the cash support, and it's important, but the rest of us don't actually think that cash support is the solution to all of the problems of society. We realize that we also need other measures. When we look at the primary budget of the Progress Party, we see that, for example, they are. would cancel 5 million. Children’s and youth protection, children’s and youth organisations would receive 10 million. less, the youth effort in the districts should be completely eliminated, and grants for international youth work should be reduced by 2 million. kr. So it's part of the primary budget of the Progress Party that tells of a party that doesn't take its social responsibility in relation to being positive co-players around children and young people's growing-up conditions seriously. I would like to see the reasons of the Advance Party for these drastic reductions in measures for children and young people in their primary budget. We agree on the common position, so we don't have to discuss it. But I would appreciate to hear a little more about the assessments that underpin the main draft budget of the Progress Party within the family framework.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e392	I guess I kind of skewed into those reasons in my main post, but I'm going to want to do it again. Otherwise, I have to be allowed to say that I think it's quite okay with a little climb for the Right now in connection with the budget work, they certainly deserve it. They are now going to be allowed to say, for once, that the Progress Party has hung itself on. I think they deserve that. The progress party cuts on child and youth protection. We cut for child and youth work, we cut for big bet, we don't want 5 million. kr for district bet and kutter. For this reason, methods and measures that have now worked and have been tried for a long time without any kind of evaluation telling us that they have contributed to anything positive. We want to use all of these means in completely different areas, we want to hit the family. We have to make sure that we meet the family and strengthen the economy of the families in such a way that we get away from the SV and the normal child of the Workers' Party, who only has two hours of association and care from their biological parents. When the Advance Party cuts in these areas, we put the money into areas where we strengthen the family base to get more association and more social relations with each other. We believe that one of the reasons for the trends we have in society today is that children simply don't recognize their parents and have no boundaries to relate to, just lack of association. That's why we cut in these areas. Nor are we advocating good child protection in the number of posts, or the number of children in institutions. It does not provide good child protection for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e401	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e404	I have to say that I have not seen these priorities of the families put into the primary budget, in addition to what we are together about, but that now has to be the problem of the Progress Party. We have a large and cost-intensive government, where, in the Right's view, it is used for large resources on administration and control, and for small resources for demand for service production. In order to reverse these unfortunate developments, the Labour Party, the Right and the Progress Party have agreed to set up a modernisation committee to identify rationalisation areas within the public administration, in particular in order to avoid duplication of administration. This modernisation committee has been adopted, so it is not a topic for discussion here today. From the government side, it is pointed out that there are samples that have approximated the same task, and therefore there is no need for a new one. To that end, we have the expectation that the agreed modernisation committee will come up with concrete proposals for rationalisation within a reasonable time, because it has so far been little of the existing ones. We see it as of course that the Modernisation Committee is left to work through material from the State Secretary's Committee and the Conversion Committee, so that one avoids unnecessary duplication of work. We have confidence that the Council of State will handle this in a good way. We need to use the resources of society as rationally as possible. The right's claim for less bureaucracy is not an attack on the bureaucrats. Our requirement is to review the public sector in order to close off tasks that are not necessary or that can be carried out by others. All stages of the public administration must be subject from time to time to a thorough assessment of the appropriateness of the division of tasks and to a reduction in the volume of tasks. The county level points out as an area where administrative costs seem to be exceptionally high. An unbridled bureaucracy in which people are increasingly having problems separating county tasks from government leads to general mistrust for today's administrative structure. In order to ensure equivalent offers for all, the Stortinget has assigned the county as its best intention new tasks in relation to what would initially be local responsibilities. In addition, the county boundaries of many who restrict freedom of choice in relation to public services are perceived. This undermines the legitimacy of the county council, and in many areas we get a cost-intensive double administration that is not suitable for anyone. We have a clear expectation that the Modernisation Committee, in close cooperation with Statskonsult, will come up with rational proposals for reorganisation that can free resources from administration to the demand for service production. The chairperson of the Committee has presented the Committee's position on the rehabilitation of the Castle and on State Building. This connects to the right. I see no reason to repeat what has already been said. Right wants to pay some attention to the contractual pension scheme. It is, as the word says, contractually established and not subject to review in the Grand Duchy, but the Right considers that there is every reason to assess whether the scheme in its present form is appropriate, socially sound and fair in relation to the age of retirement of the population. The costs of the AFP have increased significantly, and for many it is more favourable to take out full or partial pensions than to stay in their profession until the retirement age of the population. This is expensive, it draws skilled labour out of work prematurely, and it is a problem in terms of demographic development. We know that in the near future we will have more and more pensioners and fewer and fewer active people, so the issue of pension entitlements is also a matter of burden-sharing between generations. Those who really need early retirement must be able to do so without giving the scheme a form that stimulates large occupational groups to move into the ranks of pensioners too early. Therefore, the system should be reviewed by the social partners and their dealers again, in order to make the agreement more accurate and appropriate where possible. We have noticed that the Workers' Party, when dealing with this budget framework, chooses not to deal with the adoption and incorporation of the cash support reform into the State budget. It's a strange attitude to legitimate decisions. Even more strange is the fact that the Workers' Party does not seem to have any alternative family policies. They choose to use the family area budget debate to present an action plan against violence. This cannot be characterised as anything but a political theater. The development of violence in society worries us all, but that the Labour Party's family group chooses populist surfing on the media-focused wave of violence, I must say, disappoints me deeply. For the main draft budget of the Workers' Party did not include funds for action against violence. There was this money earmarked for quite another purpose. In fact, we have been made aware, through press releases, that there is a certain communication failure within the Workers' Party at present, but from the largest party in the country one still expects the priorities of its own primary budget to continue in the framework settings. And that's the lack of coherence that makes this a political theater. It presents an action plan that is cross-sectoral, with proposals for action within the budgets of the school, municipal and judicial sectors, but which was not included in the position of these sectors. What has been most striking to me about this so-called action plan on violence is that it does not take families seriously or propose positive measures aimed at families, but suggests even more advice and selection and more research. The effort shall focus on bureaucracy, research and increased meeting activities. While some increased appropriations for youth action are proposed here, the increase comes from funds already made available by the Storting for other purposes. There are no means at hand, and then this is going to be a political scandal. Nor does the action plan attempt to exploit the knowledge we actually have, which can be put into action as a means of reducing violence. Most of the proposed measures are outside the scope of the budget. In the Right, we believe that a good family policy works for the prevention of violence, and therefore we are willing to use a lot of resources to give the family a chance to develop strong and responsible relationships. Because it's and becomes the family that's small people's most important social arena. It's in the family they're going to learn to take into account each other. It is in the family that they must learn that positive and negative actions have different consequences. It is in relation to the family a child shall develop security, sense of responsibility, self-respect and respect for others. Kindergartens can and should be a good care provision for those who want to, but the primary responsibility for the development of children should be the parents. Through the cash support, parents are given a better chance to choose for themselves what is best for their children, in their very life situation, in the phase of their children's life that is most fundamental to their further development. It surprised me when I heard in our house Karita Bekkemel Orheim saying that men needed either whips or carrots to take care of their own family. The background for this was better understood when Grethe Fossum followed up by saying that the working party women had spent 20 years explaining to their men that kindergartens are good for children. Is there no one in the Labour Party trying to explain to these difficult men that parents are good for children, that parents are actually the best for children? That the auxiliary equipment should be in place and up when the family fails, there is such a broad political consensus that I find no reason to go further into a debate on it. Right wants to remove native language training from kindergartens and schools. When given training in parents’ mother tongues, children who are to live in Norway contribute to sedentating the status of immigrants, while reducing parents’ need to learn Norwegian, for parents use children as interpreters. But language is power, and when the children's language skills far exceed those of their parents, it distorts the balance of power within the family. We know that this is conflict-making, it reduces the natural authority of parents, and it contributes to the enforcement of authority within many families by violence. Among other things, violence is established as a model of respect in the immigrant communities. The removal of parental education from schools and kindergartens costs nothing, on the contrary, it frees resources for other purposes, such as: to build up the competences of immigrant parents in Norwegian and Norwegian conditions, so that they can become better partners for their own children in the adaptation to Norwegian society. If there's something we need as violence prevention, it's this. The right is also very concerned that violence in society must be combated, and we have presented a multi-point action plan presented in Document No. 8:18. We will deal with that matter when it comes to Stortinget. In addition, the various elements of good family policy, good social construction and measures to combat violence lie in the different positions presented within the respective sectoral budgetary frameworks.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e447	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e451	First of all, I want to thank you for marketing our violent package. Instead of telling a lot about his own family policy, the representative from the Right used much of his post to tell us about the Workers' Party's violence package. She called it a 'political theater'. I think it's a bit of an attack on such a serious social problem that the Workers' Party has tried to illuminate, to ignore it this way. But the explanation from the representative Stolt-Nielsen comes: they can't afford it, because they have to spend the money on cash support. The representative, Stolt-Nielsen, also says that the family is not taken seriously. I don't think I want to take the representative Stolt-Nielsen so seriously, she should have noticed what the Workers' Party has said in its violent package, namely that violence is most often committed in the family. The children who are on the street in Oslo have no family – and what do we do? Yes, we were going to have an auxiliaries, according to the representative's opinion, that were up and running. But that auxiliary will not be available if you do not grant money for it, and you cannot afford it because you want cash support. So my question to the representative is, how in all the world will Right fight the violence we see out there and at home when they don't want to give money to the helper, and have more police and lower criminal deputies as their goal? How has the Right intend to use the police on teenagers?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e458	In fact, the right has never suggested using police on teenagers! The right is willing to grant assistance, but we believe that the most violent measures are to give children a safe and good start to their lives. This is where our policies differ significantly from those of the Workers' Party, because the Workers' Party believes that if only society gets hold of the child early enough, then the parents almost don't care. When we read through what the Workers' Party wants, they don't want anything with the family, but they want a lot with a lot of other instances. But when the inner relationships fail, when a family does not feel responsible for each other, when children do not learn to take responsibility for their own actions and to take responsibility for other people, society lacks the bonds to bind together, and that is this Workers' Party has never understood. They will link all human activities to controllable state enterprises. That's where the big difference lies. The representative asks what the Right will do against violence. We've actually presented a Document No. Eighteen-point proposals to prevent violence, and we are concerned that the Government has also presented a centre package against violence. We assume that the issue of increasing violence in our society is so important and covers so many areas that we should have a broad review across the sectors of the Storting. But when the Workers' Party presents this with money tied up in other businesses, it's theater.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e465	The Progress Party is pleased to note that the representative Stolt-Nielsen from the Right is dedicated to the views of the Progress Party on the County Municipality and its role, a role which the Progress Party believes the counties who are demeaning and bureaucratic in their insidiousness have played out. But I have recorded that among the trusted Right People, there are also those who fight for the woes of the county, as well as the group leader in Hedmark County. Can we really be sure that the Right with the Advancement Party will fight to shut down the county council as it works today, so that we get a model that serves the inhabitants in a more efficient and better way?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e470	If we had already known what to do, it wouldn't have been necessary to drop a sample to look at this. The Modernisation Committee shall review the levels of administration, review the administration and see which tasks can be moved, who will do what. We wait until the sample is concluded with a result of the work to be started. If we draw the conclusions in advance, it is absolutely unnecessary to reduce the sample size. But it's clear that the county council and the county council's mixed roles have to do something about it, because it's not satisfying for some that individuals, and institutions for that part, are unable to find the right level of government, and that they don't know who does what, who they're going to address with different questions. That is why the county level has little legitimacy. It's this mix of roles, this double administration, that's so problematic for everyone. If it ends with the settlement being closed in its present form, I will not draw conclusions at this time. But I am glad that the work is being started so that we get a clean-up, an efficiency improvement and a resource management change that can give us better service production, less control and less administration. We have to be the most controlled people in the world, because it's not the only system we put in place that is not to be spelled out in at least three – four copies to be checked, to be recorded at all ends and edges. We need more production resources, no more control and administration.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e475	There is reason to admire the involvement in the contributions of the representative Stolt-Nielsen. Now there is hardly any area of policy where you can talk more about prevention than in family policy. It refers to the fact that in 1997 10,000 children were exposed to adultery and, in addition, all those experiencing the cessation of cohabitation. This has serious consequences for these children, we know that. The Christian People's Party has long been concerned with the prevention of family protection, and in this context the provision of parental guidance is also very central. In this area, there has been a lot of activity in recent years. In 1997, more than half of Norwegian municipalities were taking action, and several others were also planning. An important part of the parental guidance is to develop communication and interaction both in the relationship between children and parents and between parents and professional bodies. The provision of parental guidance is also targeted at parents with a migrant and refugee background. I want to ask the Right about their position on this, because in most of the positions of the family, culture and administration committee, the Right and Christian People's Party stand together, but right about the offer of parental guidance, right won't be there, and I'm a little disappointed about that. Right will not be involved in supporting the allocation of this important measure, and my question to the representative Stolt-Nielsen will therefore be: Does Right really believe that this is an unnecessary measure at a time when so many parents are short and have to give up?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e487	The representative Lånke began his post by referring to many adulterys and broken consensual relationships. I can't really see the connection between parental guidance and dissolved family relationships. I have to say, I have a problem with that. And when it comes to child rearing, we think it should be the exclusive territory of the parents. There are many advisors around us that parents can address when they are in doubt. All parents are from time to time in doubt – do I the right thing in this situation, and how do I tackle this particular problem? Then there's a friend, someone has a family, there's schools, kindergartens and doctors, there's a lot of people you can go to, and there's a lot of people you can turn to. But we don't want a standardised child rearing office, which should sit with all the right solutions. For what is right for one may be completely wrong for the other. And that the Norwegian community is going to undertake to run parental guidance and to be a sponsor's index finger in the immigrant communities, I take a very strong distance from that. Immigrant parents also have their traditions, and in the family field they often have many traditions that we have unfortunately lost along the way, traditions that have been good for children and family together. So I'm not sure that an approved Norwegian family manager pattern is the right thing to push on other people. This is the family area. Something still needs to be allowed to be private, outside the control of society and the dictates of society.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e494	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e497	This is one of the most important policy areas we manage. A policy that strengthens families of all kinds will help make the big community better to live in, and will help improve the growing-up environment. That is why I am pleased that there is now cooperation between the departments to look at what can be done to improve the quality of the environment for children and young people. This is an action plan for reducing the use of drugs and an action plan to fight against the use of drugs in public places, which also needs to be seen in a close context. It really surprises me when the most liberal parties in relation to alcohol policy are the strictest when it comes to fighting down power. Then it's just so much easier just to call for more police and more severe punishments. Understand the context that can! For spring, we're going to get an equality policy statement. There is no doubt that there is still a strong need to focus on information and education, so that equality laws can work according to their objectives. In this context, the gender dimension is important with its valuable competence and experience, while the demand can be exploited to an even greater extent than today. But here we have to see both ways. Equality laws shall apply where both women and men, and hence society, benefit from them. Consumer interests are now being challenged from several quarters. Spring is the big news about consumer policy, 10 years after the previous message on this topic. The aim here must always be to ensure good and safe products for consumers – in addition to new knowledge and market developments being given a new emphasis in this context. Consumers' quality perception has changed. We see this clearly in relation to the matters currently under way concerning the veterinary agreement, where consumers' interests are highly concentrated, as the Consumer Council's leader has clearly stated. Consumers and regulators in several European countries are now increasingly aware of the fact that ethics, social responsibility, environment and interest in consumer requirements are prerequisites for long-term industrial ignition. According to the last issue of the Consumer Report, this will now, for example: Denmark builds a bridge over the gap between stalls and actions. Consumers should be able to form their own positions on the basis of sound knowledge and information, and then carry it out in practice. Consumers will know how the products are made, whether child labour, growth promoters or animal testing have been used. Here in the country, the question of children and advertising has now been updated at a later date. Now Norwegian business has been on the course «KIDS Can you afford to ignore them?». [[0 – 13 years]] They would learn to attract the children's purchasing power. Advertising through several media often turns directly towards children and young people. More and more have seen a large potential in the smallest consumers. There is no doubt that the advertising in its nature gives rise to these values, especially the commercial ones. Here it's the children's commercial value it's all about. Borna should be made a champion of market share and influence. I expect this too will be seen in the new user message. In our discussion, we discussed the opening time promise. This is also a consumer issue. It is now time to look at the results of its entry into force in the new year. Released from among others Merchant Trond Lucke in Trondheim to Business Day November 3rd suggests that he will challenge the new rules. When he opens his new Sunday shops over New Year's, some of them will also sell the car license to get under the rules for gas stations. In Dagbladet on 18 November, the spokesman for Modum, Odd Flattum, spoke out. He shakes his head over his commanding forces no to the beer hall at gas stations. Now the solution must be to build up the stations and call them colonial stores, he says. And in addition, the industry itself goes in to increase the daily trade, it says in the newspaper today. And then finally, you ask how much of a Sunday trade we get, and what kind of a trade it's going to be. I don't want to wonder if this is going in a direction that we didn't really think about.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e516	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e519	Although the representative Aarrestad did not talk much about it, I would first like to take the opportunity to thank the Centre Party for the cooperation we have had in designing the cash support. It has been very good to see that the Central Party is also fully involved in this important reform. The representative of Aarrestad was very concerned with consumer policy, it is important for Aarrestad and the Center Party. Then she entered into the veterinary agreement, and there's the Center Party in violation of her own government. My question is: how can the Center Party defend sitting in a government recommending a veterinary agreement that many in the Center Party claim is jeopardizing people's lives and health? Is it not opportunistic to be in a government recommending an agreement such as the Centre Party with some exceptions — the Minister for Fisheries, among others. - Is there a big disagreement? Then Aarrestad is worried about the consequences of the new opening time law. We also share that concern in the Right. Unfortunately, we were unable to find a solution other than what was finally Brustad-bua. Aarrestad-bua became no reality, and Valle-bua that was proposed never came on the track either. I think we will soon see a development that shows that the opening time law as it has now been adopted will lead to a gigantic adaptation in line with what the City of Aarre was about. And if this starts to get around – now two departments have suggested that it be possible to sell beer at gas stations, it is only the Ministry of Social Affairs that opposes – will not then Aarrestad reconsider the view of the entire opening time law and say that it is, after all, better that it is the store itself that can determine its opening times, so that by we avoid this ridiculous adaptation to a hopeless law?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e529	First card to the veterinary agreement – and this is actually too short. It has always been clear that the Central Party is against the veterinary agreement, we have never hidden it. It is also equally clear that there was a plurality in the Stortinget that the Center Party does not belong to, which instructed the Government to negotiate this. That's what's going on, and the representative of Greece also knows very well. But submitted to the Storting is much better than it would be if there were any other party that put in government, I am not in doubt about that. But if the Senter party had decided on its own and had multiples behind it in the Stortinget, it would never have happened. That is also quite clear. So a little bit about the opening time promise. There is a development and a adaptation, and it has never been my view that the so-called Brustad-brua was the right way to do it. I knew very quickly that this was the way to get more Sunday-open shops. That's why we in the Center Party went against that way of doing it. For example, in the newspapers, it is clear that there are plans now, and hundreds of new shops will be opened. And when it comes to the sale of car props and beer – yes, it's going to be interesting to see developments. But I have to say in the end that those who talked the most about this way were the best to have free without trade on the Sundays, they've made mistakes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e536	I must commend Unn Aarrestad for the commitment to children and the purchasing press, and that was something we agreed on in the committee. As for the concern about longer opening hours, I also hope that we can work together to take the initiative to look at the working conditions of those who are now forced into uncomfortable working hours, it is also those who are now being really subjected to violence. So to something else that SV and the Center Party have previously agreed on, namely to fight for a good municipal economy, which is the prerequisite for municipalities to solve their problems, including giving children and young people a good future, good growth conditions. Now the Center Party has come into bad company and has committed itself to the mast with the Right and the Advance Party, and it seems that, unlike SV – who have proposed 4 1⁄2 billion more to the municipalities, because that is what they need – they look calmly at the miserable community economy. The signals from the result of it are quite clear. There are signs of cutbacks in interventions for children and young people over a low shoe — SFO and schools, but also kindergartens, child protection and cultural services. How long will the Central Party be in the company where the answer is given: further travel on the cutting line and thus cut into measures for children and young people that matter to their growing-up conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e545	The representative, Valle, was involved in this with opening hours and the working conditions of those who work in the shops. I've also been busy with just that – and not least in these times with so much choice, so much traffic and assault in shops, where maybe there's only one person in the store at night. So it should worry quite a lot more than the center party, and SV for that part. It also surprises me that this did not come to light any more in the debate we had in that field earlier this year. I can imagine that there might be a background enough to take up and look at opening times all over again. Then the representative was in on this with a good municipal economy. I agree that this is very important. There's something the Center Party has been up for all these years. I agree that this could now be better, but it is also uneven, there are very different relationships between the municipality and the municipality. But one should be aware that this is what we could do in the cooperation we have entered into. Then one might say that the Labour Party offered more in the local economy – that's how it was said verbally, they would try to lure us into it. But when one at the same time tried to get into dialogue with them, they wanted nothing but to overthrow the sitting government. Why, there is no way to cooperate with such a thing! So this we're fully aware of, and this we'll make the best of, as best we can.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e554	The veterinary agreement shall be dealt with in Stortinget later this week. I do not know on what basis the representative Aarrestad raised the matter in this debate – I will not comment on the content of that agreement here and now, because it has plenty of time for Storting to do the next Thursday. But I have to arrest the representative when she claims that the government was pressured by a large majority to present this matter to the Stortinget, and to negotiate it, as she said. What actually happened was that the government took up this matter with the EU after they entered the position in the autumn of 1997, but found very quickly that for Norwegian fish exports it was impossible to do anything with it. So they did not change it, and fish exports meant so much that they then chose to inform the size of the bodies to be briefed in such situations that it was not possible to renegotiate this agreement. I think that the representative of the Central Party here should stand for what the Government is doing, and not expound or otherwise disclaim the responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e563	I just have to say that the representative Nybakk is totally wrong here. At the end of the agricultural agreement, there was a number in Stortinget which ordered the Government to return to Stortinget with this agreement. It's also the Working Party that's making sense, they were in this big crowd. One knows – the Labour Party also knows – that when a majority on Stortingen provides a government with an order to do something, the government is obliged to follow it up. It was also a little wonder that I brought up something about the veterinary agreement here and now. Yes, I did it because it's a consumer business, completely. We all know what kind of food we get, what food is added, if it's pure, if it has infectious agents in it. It is mainly the consumers – we who are here – for whom this is most important. And now, by the fact that there might be multiples for this, the infection pressure in Norway can be magnified up compared to the way we've had it. We have had the advantage of being cleaner than most countries in Europe in many fields, and now we get it the same way as the rest of Europe, with this system that it is now going to apply. It annoys me, and it should disturb all consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e570	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e573	In its main priorities in the 1999 budget, SV has focused on children and young people. When the budget for the next year is to be adopted, it shall be adopted by a majority which, in the SV's opinion, does not show any real willingness to invest in children and young people. All funds are used for cash support, which does not even solve the time squeeze of families with children, and which is an obstacle to initiating good measures for children and young people. Children and young people are future. That is why they deserve far more space in politics. They have a right to be taken seriously, they deserve to be listened to. As a press group, children and young people have little or no influence. At the next election, about 25 pst. the population is under 18 years of age, i.e. without the right to vote. Snue 14 pst. will be more than 67 years old, with the right to vote retained. Guess who's going to get the attention? Children and young people are not a uniform group, but we can still see a generational injustice in relation to living conditions and power in relation to us middle-aged people, the elderly, versus the young. The good adults -- let's say we -- get a much larger share of cake and can put much more power behind the demands than the young. It is children and young people who are insurance for the future. They are the ones who will be responsible for the value creation of the future. Childhood and youth is a valuable time in life. No one can guarantee a good childhood or ensure an exciting youth, but SV will enable all children and young people to have a safe childhood and to test their abilities and have equal opportunities for meaningful youth. Childhood and youth are valuable in themselves, but it is also valuable because it provides the basis for adulthood. For SV, it is a key challenge to create good growth conditions that provide equal opportunities for all children and young people to face future challenges and participate actively in society. Only by focusing on solidarity and good Community solutions can we give all this opportunity. SV believes that kindergartens are a good offer for children, and we want this childcare community to be strengthened and developed. The nursery shall not only be a place of storage while the mother and father are at work but a good offer with qualified staff and opportunities for development, free play and play. This childcare community shall be accessible to all and shall not be hindered by the economy of parents or by the priorities of municipalities. The severe cuts we have seen in relation to the development of kindergartens lead to a more difficult everyday life for many parents who do not have access to kindergarten. In order to ensure a genuine freedom of choice for all, SV will legislate on the right to kindergarten, and we will lower the parental payment by increasing operating grants. The safety of children is the responsibility of parents, but society also has a responsibility to build a good safety net of offers to secure children and young people. Child protection is part of this safety network. Today, because of lack of resources, but also lack of competence and staff, child protection does not have the power to provide this security and security to children and young people in a good enough way. SV wants child protection to work for the best of children and young people, and therefore we want a strengthening so that we get both a municipal and a county community child protection service of good quality. It deserves the kids, it deserves the parents, and it deserves those who are in the tough jobs. SV believes it is important to create a secure society where violence and abuse are prevented. No child or youth should have to be afraid to face the violence in everyday life. It is not the arbitrary violence in the street that is the greatest threat to children and young people – even though it is serious enough. Domestic violence against children, against young people and women, is more widespread and more concealed and more taboo. If the offender is a minor, child protection must be attached to the case immediately, if necessary by coercion. At the same time, we in SV believe that recreational activities for children and young people need to be much more intensive. They must not just come as fire extinguishers when the media have the light on them, but they must come because the youth deserves it. The equality work has not been won once and for all, and in SV we will be concerned with both improving and defending what we have won. Therefore, we will increase the framework of the Equality Centre and of the Equality Ombudsman. Violence against women and children will be an area that will be especially able to address, and we support the idea of a women's violence selection. We want a government employer policy that gives women better opportunities to live with and one day to live with. Finally, I refer to the proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e599	Ågot Valle has taken up the suggestions she has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e604	I had actually expected the representative Valle to spend a little more time on the Progress Party. It was too small in relation to what is a common tradition – I refer to yesterday’s debate, where Ballo had a ten-minute post and spent 8 1⁄2 minutes on the Advance Party budget. So that was a little regrettable. But to the SV budget and to Valle's posts: here again the desire to strengthen the various items already in the budget. And unless other parties are satisfied with the budget of the Progress Party, it is interesting to note that SV is at least not a message. I see they have approx. 200 pst. increasing gender equality. They're inserting approx. 50 million for child and youth protection and 10 million for different research. And my question to the representative, Valle, is then – it's about raising the quality of child protection: When we get such situations as it was referred to in the VG yesterday, where a mother has fought a desperate fight against child protection because of accusations that the mother smelled sweat, the son smelled chicken, and there were bed linen in the sofa and toys on the table, can't the representative, when experts take such things into the picture in a report, be involved in finding some kind of quality assurance of experts working on child protection issues and child distribution issues?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e613	When I have five minutes to prepare for a very good policy in the areas that we are discussing, yes, I would not have intended to spend my time in the Progress Party; it does not, in fact, deserve the Advance Party. When we want to redeploy the funds for the protection of children, for child and youth measures, for the kindergartens, for the maritime rights of fathers to maternity leave and all that we have explained, it happens within exactly the same framework as the Progress Party operates within. But it is this policy that we believe will give children and young people and families better status here in society. It should not surprise the representative Sandberg that we have been concerned about the quality of child protection. This was also the subject of an interpellation earlier in the spring. But when we take a position on the quality of child protection, we don't do it based on headlines in VG or other newspapers. For this this is a far too serious area. But we're worried that child protection has such a big "turnover" as it has. It worries us that so many people have so short longevity in an area that is so tough because they have to go in and make difficult decisions. Then we want child protection workers with skills who know that they can absorb the new knowledge that has come about children and family, who have the security to go in and make the right decisions, who can cooperate with others, so they won't have to pull the glass bell over, as I hear many child protection workers describe their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e620	The representative, Ågot Valle, has a sincere commitment in the matter of women and children. It's a very positive commitment. I agree with the representative that we need to put the search light on the situation of children in crisis centres and on the situation of crisis centres in general. The Committee shall act unanimously to convert the contributions to crisis centres into estimates. In this way, we are also involved in securing the economy of the crisis offices, and I think it is a very positive measure we have now taken. The representative, Ågot Valle, says that the centre party does not have the will to bet on children and young people. But that's wrong. Throughout the landfill, a number of measures are proposed aimed at children and young people. It even has a new post, youth action in the districts, because violence, bullying, crime, intoxication and racism are not only going on in the big cities, but also in the districts. The representative of Ågot Valle thought that the proposal was so good that SV even suggested more money than what we have found for the measure. At least it shows that the centre part is absolutely a priority for children and young people. When it comes to childcare policy, I agree that good childcare provision is important to address children and parents’ needs. But to present it as if cash support does not provide any possibility for more time with the kids is becoming very uniform. It was so that many people who wanted to be home perceived the policy that was pursued, where a one-sided focus on kindergarten, as if it wasn't good enough, that what mattered was to make a career and really be active. Sometimes it's nice to present it as if the Christian People's Party wants women to be on the kitchen bench. It's totally wrong. We want to give freedom of choice, where parents themselves must feel respect for the choice they make, not a policy that unilaterally favors being active, and which until the centre government took over has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e632	First, the budget for the crisis centres. It was also something that the center parts and SV were together last year. It's a good proposal, but what worries me is that one of the current financial instruments makes itself very dependent on the local economy. And when the local economy is as bad as it is now, I hope at least that it will not tempt the municipalities to cut off the subsidies to the crisis centres. It will have quite a lot of consequences. When we are concerned about the policies of the Centre Parties and the Government regarding children and young people, it is because the Government has so much focus on cash support that it prevents them from looking at other measures. I'm concerned when first the Government and then the ‘nightbrokers’ cutters in the area by area related to children and young people, for example. as regards the development of competences in the field of child protection, grants to children’s and youth organisations, etc. etc. Then to the freedom of choice. Our main objection to cash support and a lack of bet on kindergartens is that the cash support does not solve the clutter in which the families of children are located. If you were really busy doing something there, and at the same time giving women the same opportunities as men to be out in their working life, then there would be a completely different focus on working time reforms that would make everyday life go on for most people. If you really wanted freedom of choice, you would have done something about the parental payment in kindergarten. Now it shoots speed, so it'll soon be just the richest ones who can afford to have their kids there.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e641	The Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party are united in the fight against cash support. It's really not that strange, because there's deep ideological dividing lines between the socialist parties and the rest of us. Something one sees by reading some history, is that those who want to gain power over a society, start with children. If you can gain power over children early enough, you can control the development of society in the long term. But we don't want a society where all child care is to be channeled into a public controlled device. We want it to be an freedom of choice for parents. We believe that this freedom of choice benefits children, because in our society there must be room for people to do different priorities in life, that they have different basic attitudes and different approaches to the problems. But what is important is that at least we learn that no matter what your basic attitude, you have a responsibility for your own actions, and you have a responsibility for your own relationships with other people. And if one is to take that responsibility, it requires a safe and good start among the people who are one's closest, and so it's never going to be the kindergarten or the teacher who's closest to children – then something's wrong. We want to bet on the family. That is what is the basis for the cash support, and that later it is not that SV has brought with it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e648	I wonder what argument I should hear when the Right and the Center parties and the Advance Party argue for the cash support. Sometimes the argument is that parents should have freedom of choice, sometimes that parents should have more time with their children – that’s probably the arguments that come. But as I also said in the reply to the previous reply: Cash support is no guarantee whatsoever that children and parents get more time together. If that was the main reason for introducing the cash support, a set of completely different schemes would ensure that families of children get out of the time they really are in. Then it's not like we want a society where big brothers monitor kids 24 hours a day. Of course, it's the parents who have the greatest responsibility for their kids, but we want to give kids opportunities for a good community in a kindergarten where there are also qualified staff who have time for them, where they should be able to evolve based on their own assumptions and the inequalities that exist among them. But not all are born with the same luggage or the same safety net or the same good parents. One cannot choose his parents, and therefore many have to have a good safety net, and that means good welfare schemes that the Right is trying to catch up on any occasion. It's the good welfare arrangements we'll at least stand for and fight for.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e657	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e660	There has been a lot of focus on increased crime lately – not least in this debate, for which we in the Labour Party blame ourselves – especially the development that is taking place where children seem to participate more strongly. There have been many solutions to solve this in the short and long term, but I think it's still a little bit more before we can find the more basic causes of the development we're experiencing. There has been little focus on the relationship between violence in public places and the more widespread domestic violence. We know that there are large numbers of darkness because such cases are not reported, but it still seems as if this is a taboo theme. It doesn't fit into our ideas about the family and the world, and we know that there are often attitudes. We also know that the girls are most often exposed to this. There are examples of judicial decisions that accept this violence on the basis of more or less absurd reasoning. This is one of those areas where we have a long way to go before we can say we're satisfied, but then we have to dry up and grab it. We have to reinforce the tools we already have, which the Working Party is trying to do in this setting. We have focused little on how we can prevent male children who have been subjected to violence between their parents from adopting the same patterns of violence. For here, there is an important reason for the violence also taking place in public spaces — boys trained to believe that man solves problems by beating. It is a form of conflict resolution that few people will accept, but in the absence of good role models and little focus on domestic violence, many boys are taught to believe that men beat and use violence. We see it exposed in society too. This is a clear sign of masculinity on the way. It wasn't the role we men were supposed to be, and it's as far away from human values as it's possible to get. But the boys who don't have the right human roles to deal with today are at risk of being confirmed without getting proofs. Because we've developed a social system where a child risks meeting only girls throughout growth, whether it's in kindergarten or primary school. So men's allowances can be used for the benefit of employment in a number of professions. Here we have a job to do to give our boys good roles to learn from, but also to move on in one of the most important issues of equality that still stands unsolved. But then we have to dry to take hold of it and not accept that this is just a bit of a bit of a problem. We need to get an overview of what it is we're really challenging, even though it's still happening as a taboo. And there's a lot left of political decisions that can help fix this. The first step could be to extend the Government’s action plan against violence to focus also on action and instruments in the fight against domestic violence, and violence against girls in particular. The Labour Party has proposed the establishment of a selection to identify and propose measures against domestic violence. In addition, we need to get more knowledge about what's happening to boys who are developing to be violent. That is why we are also proposing a stronger commitment to research into men and violence. It doesn't look like we're getting a majority for it in this round, but these proposals are so good that I expect that when we've done a maturation, we'll get a say in them anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e673	Today, there has been talk of a family policy in reverse. Children and young people pay for the cash support by reducing it to other public offers. There have been reports of domestic violence. In the home today we actually find yesterday's youngster, and many of these spent their early childhood mainly in kindergarten. The Labour Party has found it timely to promote a kind of action plan against violence, both in general and more specifically – against domestic violence and against violence in the child and youth communities. Immediately the plan seems to have something to do with it, but in a more detailed review it is mostly about research, investigation and prevention activities in the public domain. It seems to have forgotten that the family is usually good for children, that the family creates identity and belonging in a community of both adults and children. In the opinion of the Progress Party, families as responsible children’s and young people’s instructors must be given a reindeer. The search light must be directed towards the fact that very many children and young people are driving around in a very large public space, popularly called community, often without good role models because mother and father, grandparents, aunts, uncles, etc. are in paid work away from home. The normal growing-up environment consists of institutions for children of all ages, where they are placed early in the morning and picked up in the afternoon to join the store and shop, and then home for dinner and TV before they lie down. The children who have become ten years old are not allowed to do this, they are allowed to be home alone with TV, video, etc. Is this daily routine a sign of a good growing-up and living environment? Is it good for children from 1 to 16 years of age to be left to themselves in an institutionalized growth? How much care and love a child gets bought for a couple of thousand copies per month. month? The question is not a criticism of either kindergarten, SFO or school staff, but it is meant as a warning about the world in which we expect children to develop positively. I know schools where drugs are sold in the spare minutes, by students, and where teachers feel powerless. Is this safe? Children are being bullied, mentally and physically harassed, both by fellow students and teachers. There are a wide range of environments and schools where violence and crime are the rule and not the exception. There are examples of stabbing and other violent incidents that have resulted in both hospitalisation, early burial and imprisonment. Why have we not stopped this development? What comes from the fact that violence seems to increase, even though it is prevented in kindergarten, SFO and school? Childhood seems safe for most, well-regulated as it is by laws and regulations, but instead of security, all these laws have created a vacuum in which paralysis of action by both parents and public authorities dominates. And is there anything strange? We have the right of unauthorised persons, we have child law, child protection law, training law and criminal law. In addition to laws and regulations, we have a power that claims that children have the best of being in kindergarten, SFO and school. One can actually believe that having a parent in itself is to the detriment of the child. Public care is claimed to be good and correct. An example is the debate that has evolved towards cash support. Is the violence and crime created by the fact that children and young people are rotless, insecure and alone in a big and frightening world where empathy seems to be a foreigner and family luxury? The Progress Party is committed to moving the action space between adults and children from municipality, county and state back to mother and father. Home and family are the right place to prevent bullying, violence and crime. Mother and father must again be central to their own children's lives. Careers both at home and outside are almost impossible to reconcile. And when time is the most important resource in a child's life, yes, the choice should be simple. Priority must be given to the needs of children.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e690	The economic situation required a tight budget for 1999. Nevertheless, I am overconfident that we have managed to obtain a budget that has strengthened the efforts of children, youth and family. When the Storting will now adopt the budget for 1999, the last part of the introduction of the cash support will be completed. From 1 January 1999, the two-year-olds will also be entitled to cash support. As a result, the cash support scheme has been expanded in accordance with the Waksenås statement. I'm glad that our goal of greater freedom of choice for small children's families now has actually become a reality. The number from the Reichsstrøgdeverket shows that 76.3 pst. parents have chosen to use cash support. Very many people charge full cash support. And there's a lot of variation between states in the use of cash support, and it's consistent with, among other things. with the babysitting system. When so many take advantage of the cash support, it shows that toddlers want greater flexibility and choice. Of course, the tight budgetary arrangements have also had an impact on the Ministry of Children and the Family. Therefore, cash support is granted for a reduction in the rates for 1999, but according to the agreement entered into by the Government Party and the Right and the Progress Party, this reduction is due only for 1999. Under the agreement, cash support shall be returned to full levels in the year 2000. When the other large transfers are made to the children's families, they are mainly carried forward without major changes. In the nursery sector, we are in the final phase of development. This government is continuing the goal of full child care coverage by the year 2000. The 1999 budget provides for the establishment of 2 500 new kindergartens. Of these, 1,500 places should be for children under three years of age and 1000 places for children over three years of age. I want to make it clear that this is a careful estimate, which includes: due to increased capacity following the 6-year reform and that individual municipalities are now clearing the waiting lists. Furthermore, we do not yet fully know the consequences of the cash support for the kindergarten sector. But we think that reform also makes demand a little less. In spite of this, the development of new places is an important task for municipalities. What we've already recorded when it relates to the relationship between cash support and babysitting, is that increasing the number of options seems to increase the demand for shorter child-sitting periods. With effect from 1 August 1999, the number of differentiated set-offs in kindergartens has been increased. This means an increase in rates for shorter uptime, and it should make it easier for kindergarten owners to provide part-time space. The conversion will benefit both municipal and private owners. There is reason to worry that the level of parental payment is very high in some municipalities. Local authorities must also contribute to the financing of the private sector to a greater extent than at present. The state and the municipalities share a shared responsibility to expand and run kindergartens in line with the goal of full needs coverage. Where private kindergartens are involved in achieving the objectives of their childcare provision, they must not be discriminated against financially in relation to municipal kindergartens. In the notification, the Government shall discuss the future economic, legal and professional framework conditions for the kindergarten sector. The notification to be submitted to the Budgetary Agreement for spring 1999 will include: look at the relationship with the private sector. In the state budget, we have determined that efforts to secure children and young people will continue to be among the main tasks of the government. I've marked myself and I'm glad that the party in opposition is also busy with this. The increasing trend towards increased power in the paediatric population is unacceptable and must be stifled. The government prioritises this work from several departments and across different departments. I myself want to use the tools I have available to strengthen this work. In order to prevent violence in the paediatric community, good cooperation between public authorities and voluntary forces is needed. Governments will stimulate broad mobilisation to create a better growth environment – in cooperation with young people, with parents, voluntary organisations, schools, police and local authorities. This is what we are working on both through the development programme for strengthening the growing-up environment and through the contribution to youth action in larger urban communities. I am pleased that the committee also addresses the searchlight against the elected members of the world. We know too little about the extent, but investigations, both from the health services and the police, show that the problem is far too extensive. If checked, the selected frame will be drawn on the first row of women and children. The government has included the development of an action plan against selected and breached. In these days, an invitation to an idea is given to a range of institutions and organisations. The government sees it as important to have a good dialogue with those who have competence in the field, and we want to get input from them. So we don't need any more time, as Alstad said in his article. We might have other solutions than what the Labour Party has, but it's the same problem. In the work on prevention, I would also like to highlight the researchers' reference to the close relationship between the use of drugs and the choice. If there is to be a broad effort to prevent both young people and adults from being selected, a balance must be struck between alcohol and alcohol. I agree that we need a solidarity debate here, a debate such as this. connects the consequences of increased access to drugs with our view of humanity and our responsibility for solidarity.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e720	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e723	Last year the government parties said no one should lose on cash support. This year the bill will come. We see that there will be fewer kindergartens, and the small children's supplement to the cash support parents will be reduced by 660 million. kr from the Government, the school leisure scheme has been reduced by 125 million. kr, and there has been no room for more family protection, child protection, youth organisations or young people in the districts. At the same time, we see that in our country we have a situation of violence that we want to combat. The Labour Party has tried to do something to give the Minister of Children and Family some means to combat violence. In his speech, the Minister for Children and Family said that they had a number of measures and plans that they wanted to implement. I've looked a little bit more closely at those plans, and they're expected to spend money on them. At the same time, when, in cooperation with the Right and the Progressive Party, the action to be taken to implement the plans, my question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs is: How does the Minister for Child and Family Affairs intend to meet this issue of violence, to get action that is important for the whole of society, with a cut-off in his budget in essential areas? So a small question that only needs a short yes or no: The Labour Party, together with SV, has put forward a proposal for a separate violence selection for women. We believe it is essential to bring this to light, not just by an action plan, but by a public body that looks at domestic violence. How will the Minister for Children and Family Relations deal with this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e732	The representative of Fossum pointed to the Workers' Party's opposition to the election. I would then like to show the representative of the Labour Party its alternative state budget, presented by the Group of 4 November 1998. In fact, no krone has been proposed for increased measures in relation to the problem of violence. But it's clear that when you have a framework budget within a department, a redistributed funds, funds that are all tied up. What the labor party has done here is they've found 50 million. kr to action against the chosen. That's the same thing as if we were. Managed the state budget a few years ago, all the funds for the 6-year reform would be spent on other measures that we would rather, because we were against the six-year reform. That's the way the Workers' Party has found this 50 million. kr on, and that's okay, but the representative Fossum knows that there's no plurality for it in this room. That's why a flag likes it, but it wasn't so important for the big group to want to profile it when they laid out their alternative budget. But it's become more important after a while. It is clear that work on the problem of violence is important, and the government will invest a lot in countering the authority. In fact, we have presented an action plan in relation to power in the centre. We're busy at home, and as I said in my post, these days we're actually going to send out an invitation to a range of institutions and organizations, among others. to the Competence Centre for Election, the Gender Equality Centre and others. This may lead to a faster response to actions that need to be inserted to fight against the power of the home, rather than by reducing a selection that will work so and so for so long. If there's a selection we're forced to reduce in the long term, I won't say yes or no to this day. I want to first see which research institutions, which have some facts in this area, together with the various centres, can provide us with information when it comes to measures to be used in the fight against domestic violence.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e739	I will first address some statements that the Council of State came to Political Quarter yesterday. The first messages I got from there were very disturbing. But to the defense of the Council of State: I got a print of this, and it was very reassuring what the Council of State came with in Political Quarter yesterday. The Progress Party will also be involved in evaluating this with day-mother and trainee on the same lines as the State Council signals. Of course, it has to be a consequence of this. But that's not what I wanted to ask the council. In the agreement on cash support, points 1 and 2 agreed to equalise public and private kindergartens. The same thing happened in the agreement on the State budget. Now we see that in the different municipalities it's the opposite that happens. Based on a so-called tight economy in the municipalities, public support for private kindergartens is now being reduced. My question to the Council of State must then be: can the Council of State in any way signal to the municipalities what are the aims of the conciliation, so that we do not have to allow private kindergartens to enter the years at the beginning of 1999? That is what happens now when the different municipalities give far greater priority to their own public kindergartens than they have done in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e747	I'm glad Per Sandberg was happy when he read through what I said in Political Quarter. I said things I've said very many times before, and the evaluation of the cash support must have many factors with it, including. whether a real set of people spend more time with their children, and how to arrange for them. When it comes to the relationship between the private and municipal kindergartens, this is quite complicated. We know that it should be a third of the financial responsibility for operations: the state 40 pst., the municipality 30 pst. and parent 30 pst. We don't know that is being followed up by the municipalities, especially in relation to the private ones. But it's not that simple that we can just say that what the municipal authorities don't support, we're going to compensate from the public. For what municipality had built a new nursery? I don't think that would have been so many, because then they would have let the whole expansion in the nursery sector go over to the state powers of government. I don't think it's right to do that, because I think it's important that we stick to the responsibility that's shared between the state and the municipality. When it comes to a signal to the municipalities, I believe that I use all the facilities when I'm around to give talks about the nursery sector, to remind the municipalities of their responsibilities towards the private sector. What the local authorities might have liked to forget is that very many of the private kindergartens have a municipal guarantee, and if things go so bad that the private kindergartens go bankrupt, the municipalities have to pay out the guarantee they have given. If this happens, the bill for municipalities can actually be more expensive than if they are willing to support the private kindergartens today. Private kindergartens have the same problem as everyone else in the municipal sector, that there was a good paycheck. There have been a number of expenses that they have not been able to foresee, and it has worn them out today, as everyone else does.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e756	The right is well pleased with everything the Minister for Children and Family has told us about the Government's priorities here today. We can join it, give it our support. We hear that the government is doing well to prepare for various improvements in society that are going to combat violence and the condition of families with children, and we are pleased with that. But I want to ask the Council of State about a couple of things that she didn't say much about in her article. There has been a discussion in society about whether the cash support should be recognised in the parental income basis in relation to social assistance. Now we know that in this area there are different practices from municipality to municipality, because it is not legal to consider these means. Has the Minister for Family Affairs indicated that using the Right Child Protection Model would have avoided this issue, because child protection is excluded from coordination? Then we would have a non-discrimination. I heard the State Council's call on the radio yesterday morning regarding the evaluation basis for the cash support reform. I haven't read the excerpt, but I'm a little worried if the state is going to go in and assess the quality of the care model the parents choose, because it's interfering with an freedom of choice that we in the Right hold quite high. If parents choose a trainee or a day mother, parents must assess the quality of their choice – not public. There is freedom of choice and diversity in child care. It is highly valued within the Right, and I would like to hear the clarification of this by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e763	I am pleased that the representative Stolt-Nielsen is satisfied with our efforts, and I can return the thanks in the areas that Right has also supported us. But when it comes to the question of cash support versus social assistance, I believe the representative has misunderstood a little. Social assistance is assessed differently from municipality to municipality. In some municipalities, child-responsiveness is counted, in others not. In some municipalities, cash support is included, otherwise not. The point is that we don't have a legal home today to impose on local authorities the right to count on or disregard child welfare on the basis before paying social assistance. It is as I say, that the cash support and child benefit have been assessed quite equally in relation to the local authorities' right to disregard it. I see that the representative shakes his head, but she is actually wrong – I am sure. What I'm also quite sure is that by choosing Right's cash support model, we would have had even greater problems in the kindergarten sector than we have today, because then the private kindergartens would have lost the government support. It would be quite disastrous for the owners of the private kindergartens. When we present the difference message, we will look at the social assistance payments and see if we can somehow get them more alike. My starting point for a while back was that one had to ignore both cash support and child welfare when one was going to pay social assistance. But then I see that there's so much difference from the municipality to the municipality in what amount they spend, that it just increases the difference. That's why we've left it alone. And then we take it up to a more thorough assessment, and then of course the Stortinget will be invited to join in and make decisions, when the Government has submitted its big message. In addition, I would like to add at the end that I have not intended to quality assurance of my parents' choices, but it is still possible to offer day-old mothers training and have a kind of ‘quality assurance’ for day-old mothers. That's what I've been talking about. I'm not going in to control my parents' choices.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e776	I did not intend in this reply to take up the cash support in one word. But I'm quite tempted when the Council of State evades responsibility, I would say, in relation to the poorest. Because if it were such that there was a law house that was the obstacle, I would have expected the Council of State to come sooner than ever with this House of Law to the Stortinget, so that the poorest could be allowed to keep the entire cash support as long as this scheme is in place. But I want to move on to family and good child and youth policies. When this government cuts children’s and young people’s actions to meet the settlement partners and does not think in the long term, we in SV think it is very thoughtful and deeply regrettable. Because the drastic cuts made in this round of budgets and the poor economy in the municipalities mean that many measures are being taken. SV believes that it is now necessary to focus on leisure activities and activities for children and young people with a long-term perspective, and not only on ad hoc measures that are made aware of when it flows into the media. Childhood and youth are a valuable period in life — both valuable in seas and because it provides the basis for adult life. Does not the Council of State consider it important to focus more on children and young people in the form of funds for measures that are not necessarily defined as prevention but which provide children and young people with opportunities and challenges? And if she means it, how will she follow it up? So to maritime rights for fathers. Many, many times I have heard the Minister of Children and Family promise maritime rights for fathers for maternity leave – not now, but later. We know the importance of that. When can the Minister for Children and Family put action behind the beautiful words of maritime rights for fathers for maternity leave?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e787	It may seem that I am “dismissing” my responsibility, but to put it this way: the image was more complicated than I believed in advance, and then I would have left the responsibility by just lifting it to the municipalities. I have had some criticisms, including: from a working party, because I have not done so. I wonder, for the same rule has applied to child welfare in all the years the government has been led by the Labour Party, but they have done nothing about it. So now we're going to have a full review of the basis for social assistance payments, and we're going to look at both child welfare and cash support in this way. So we're doing something. We "disappear" are not responsible. So I'd like to be so honest to say that I didn't think a part of the cuts we have in actions for children and young people, they're the easiest ones to go out with. But we're not going to have a proper alternative budget from other parties, and what would have been left if they were also going to start cutting in different areas. What still means that I can support this with great boldness is that in this house there is a case that this committee has for dealing with – it has a doctor here for a long time – and that is the additional message for the ‘freedom message’. There is actually a good deal of money to go to child and youth work at local level. I hope that the Stortinget will agree with the proposals put forward by the Government, and if one does, the actual child and youth work at local level will receive good support in the year we go into. We are going to channel part of the gambling money into child and youth work, and not bet on short-term ad hoc measures, such as the representative, but on long-term measures for good prevention work in all the municipalities around our country. Once the Committee has been able to handle this matter, we shall also be provided with more resources for such action.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e794	First, a follow-up to the response of the Council of State to the representative Fossum, on concrete measures against violence. Governments are shooting at the Workers' Party and our actions to relieve themselves of the responsibility she has for this problem. The truth is that the Council of State does not have money for the fight against violence, because they have gone to cash support. We have always demonstrated in the autumn how little thoughtful the cash support scheme has been. You don't know the consequences fully, says the Council of State today. The affected families of the cash support group have been constantly informed by the Government of what they can count on for payment. First, they were to be drawn for the infant supplement. Then they get to keep it. Then the payment will be reduced from NOK 3000 to NOK 2,200 per month. In the meantime, many parents have taken their children out of kindergarten to get another babysitting. So far, it turns out that few people stay at home, according to, among other things. a study from Akershus. State Secretary Odd Anders With guarantees that full cash support will be paid from the year 2000. I want to ask the Minister of Children and Family about what she thinks will change in the Norwegian economy next year so that the Council of State, as well as its Secretary of State, can guarantee that full cash support can be paid in a year. I would also like to ask the Council of State how she views the situation that 150 kindergartens are at risk of being closed down, and that the price of kindergartens goes up. Will the Council of State legislate a 40-30-30 split? Is the state council, which is also responsible for kindergartens in this country, concerned about the developments she is now seeing in the kindergarten sector? There is one thing that has upset me greatly, and that is that the government is trying to create the impression that they are in favour of full child care coverage by the year 2000. In the setting, this bluff – I call it – is revealed quite clearly. Here we see that it is added to a bet of 2,500 new kindergartens next year, while the Workers' Party is adding up to a completely different bet. Just to illustrate, in 1997, 16 400 new kindergartens were built here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e803	No, I'm not in any way shooting down the Workers' Party's actions in relation to the fight against violence. I'm going to drop their funding plan, because they know it's not a plural. If we in the other parties were to behave in the same way as the Workers' Party has done here – it may well have done some parties at its times, I won't deny it – one knows that one suggests things for which there aren't multiples. I repeat that it was not so important that it was in the alternative budget proposed by the Labour Party, which was behind the whole of the collapse group, and which was presented at the beginning of November. When it comes to the increasingly new messages that have come to young children's parents, I understand very well the frustration that some of them showed. As the representative also said, many parents have spent their lives after this would happen. That's why I'm wondering to them that the Labour Party is providing a budget of zero dollars to this sector. In the summer, I read an interview with both Thorbjørn Jagland and Jens Stoltenberg, and they said that in one way or another, a help must be given to the young children’s parents who have arranged for legal decisions. But when they laid out their alternative state budget, it wasn't a penny. What was said this summer, both by the party leader and the vice-leader in the Labour Party, was not worth investing in when they laid out their alternative budget. The same parents would have been dismayed if the Labour Party had got through their alternative budget, because they have set themselves up after this would happen. Then I actually think it's easier to align after a few hundred notes are removed than that 3,000 kroner are removed per day. month. It's also part of the reactions we've been given. I can't guarantee anything more than what the government stands for, because we know that we have 42 representatives behind us on the Stortinget, and what the Stortinget is doing when we deal with a budget, there is no minority government that can guarantee, nor against the year 2000 when we present our budget for the following year. – Then I think I have to stop.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e810	So does the president. The replacement cord has thus been changed,
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e815	I would like to continue my reply to the Council of State, and I would like to ask at the outset whether the Council of State really believes that the Workers' Party in opposition would contribute funds to a cash support scheme that we oppose. What the Workers' Party has done is just to invite to cooperate on the cash support scheme, which has been totally rejected from this central government. The political challenges of child, family and gender policy continue to be many in this country. Perhaps one of the greatest challenges facing us in family policy is finding solutions to how we can live better together in the family. Calculations from the Statistical Central Bureau show that the entire 45 pst. of all marriages will end in divorce. This will mean that we get new family patterns. This means that more and more children are growing up with a family structure that is completely different from the traditional core family. The Labour Party believes it is important that we have a varied gender and family policy here in the country. We cannot design welfare schemes so that they are only suitable for the so-called A4 family. The arrangements we set up must be good for as much as possible, regardless of the family structure, the economy or the resources that each individual possesses. The biggest problem facing many families with young children today is that time does not go on. We must be able to organize the lives of the families of young children in such a way that it is possible to combine work and association with family and participation in the social and organisational life. How can families get more time together? We know the government's answers. It is as well-known cash support for those with one- and two-year-olds who do not use kindergarten. In the discussion on cash support, it seems that the Minister for Child and Family Affairs has unfortunately forgotten the kindergartens. We now receive daily reports in the media on the situation of kindergartens in many of the municipalities in the country. I want to repeat what I said in my reply to the Council of State, that it is alarming that a whole 150 kindergartens are in danger of being closed around the country. In particular, many of the typical peripheral municipalities are exposed with an already thin operating basis. It's unfortunate that the central government's bet on kindergartens is the most defensive we've seen since we had a clean right government led by Kåre Willoch here in the country. I cannot understand that the centre party can be comfortable with such a situation. If we take stock of the figures on developments since 1994 and up to the budget for next year, they show a sudden halt in the development of kindergartens here in the country. The government itself says in the budget proposal that the bet on kindergartens is very cautious until next year. This is because of the uncertainty about the cash support. It has been claimed by several in the centre parties and by the committee leader Molvær Grimstad in the last year's budget debate that no one should lose their money support. If today we ask the many parents who are now insecure about whether their nursery will survive, and who experience a formidable increase in the nursery price, I think that someone thinks that there is someone who is losing on the introduction of the cash support scheme. The situation is that many small children’s families today have had worse conditions with this government’s arrangements, both in economic policy and with what is now being done by uncertainty and increased parental pay in kindergartens. Last year we experienced a committee leader who was very concerned about the parental payment. What does she now say about what's happening? Is the involvement of kindergartens and all the parents who have 3- 6-year-olds in this country completely stopped? At the same time, I would say that the committee leader also later on to create the impression that the Workers' Party is opposed to helping to strengthen the families that are in a difficult phase. What the committee leader does not elegantly say is that the Workers' Party will strengthen family protection and conflict resolution by 3.5 million. kr. This is a commitment to, and not a reduction in, family protection – those who have the best professional competence to do that work. Finally, by 1 August 1999 at the latest, the Labour Party will stand firm on the goal of full childcare coverage. We add up to an offensive bet with 10,000 new places and an incentive grant of NOK 10000 for each new kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e836	In the debate, as expected, the focus has been on cash support. I have to say that I am proud to have been involved in negotiating a reform that has received such a positive response from the young children's parents, because that is a reform we are talking about. I notice that the Workers' Party does not like that we mention the cash support as a reform. It is strange that the Workers' Party is paying so much attention to the cash support when they say that there is only one measure; there is no reform. On the one hand, cash support is the cause of most of the problems of the Norwegian economy over the last six months, and on the other hand, there is nothing more than a measure. For the Right, it is absolutely a reform that is involved, yes, a time and freedom of choice reform – a reform that is the first proper settlement of the Workers' Party's central welfare policy. The right is the first to complain that the cash support payment will be reduced as a result of the budgetary agreement. But we are pleased that the five parties have committed themselves to bringing the payments up to the 1998 level in 2000. We are also pleased that the baby supplement next year will be paid out with NOK 7 884 for everyone with children between one and three years of age. This means that the parents who opt for partial cash support will come out better than the government had proposed. For the Right, the freedom of choice of the family is the decisive argument for cash support. We trust that parents make the best choices for their children and for their families. More time with the children is an important argument for cash support. But the crucial thing for the Right is the ability to choose the most appropriate care solutions for the individual family. So go to the kindergarten situation. The right has always been concerned that a well-developed childcare facility is a prerequisite for giving families freedom of choice. This year's paycheck was good, but expensive for kindergartens. In a situation where cash support is introduced at the same time as a strong wage jump, it is a problem for the most vulnerable kindergartens. The most vulnerable are private kindergartens with little or no municipal support. For this reason, the Right is pleased that there is now an agreement to provide a growth message aimed at providing child care funding that values municipal and private kindergartens equally high. The most important thing must be that children receive a qualitatively good childcare provision, not if the place is municipal or private. Nearly half of the kindergartens are in private kindergartens. It means that this is a sector where you can no longer talk about private solutions as a supplement, but as an equivalent part of the total supply. Unfortunately, the municipalities have not provided their share of the financing of private kindergartens, as Stortinget has previously foreseen. This means that parental payments in private kindergartens are often higher. As a result, these kindergartens are more vulnerable when the kindergarten queues are reduced. We expect the government to follow up on this issue and develop a system that grants all kindergartens according to objective criteria, not whether they are private or public. The Family, Culture and Administration Committee is a committee with many possibilities and many jumps. So I'm going to go on to something completely different, that's Fornebu. The debate on the future use of Fornebu is continuing. The right is in favour of the vision of creating a privately funded IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. We believe it is positive that private investors will contribute to increased education capacity in IT and value creation through interaction with research, education and business. In this context, we will refer to the joint comments that the Right had last year with the Progress Party, where we stressed that we were positive to an IT and knowledge centre on Fornebu, but that those who want to develop such a centre must pledge to pay the market price for the state's properties, which is also important in the light of this year's budget, where the Swedish Aviation Agency will have a compensation of SEK 2.3 billion for moving from Fornebu to Gardermoen. This matter is now before the Business Committee for the examination of the notification of St.meld. No 13 after New Year's Eve. State buildings have also been in focus because of large exceedances and lack of control. The right has noticed that the Ministry is now considering the reorganisation of State Building activities. We assume that the issue of the reorganisation of state buildings is presented to the Stortinget as a matter of its own. It is also important to provide an overview of the state buildings that have been designed and planned in the various sectors, so that we can form an overall picture of what lies ahead of projects. Family policy will remain in focus. It is an area that is clearer than any other area today, showing the ideological differences in Norwegian policy, and that will be an exciting battlefield in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e853	In the last year, I have been afraid to be hooked, not because of a heavy should, but because the reversing operations of the government parties have so often made me stand as a question mark. And I've asked myself, is national policy also this? How do they make such curvatures? How can they so quickly forget the election vows and move on without even blushing, as if it were yesterday that stood clean and unused and with blank sheets? Who could have thought that a government led by the Christian People's Party, which, moreover, got my voice as a first-time voter, could be in charge of a policy together with the Progress Party, which is raging the kindergarten development and school leisure system, which is cutting off the weakest and most vulnerable – everything from drug-prevention work among young people to unhelping the weakest in the world? Together with the Progress Party and the Right, the government parties will today adopt the least child-friendly budget ever, and everything to finance a so-called heart attack of well over DKK 2 billion per year. year, at a time which requires tightening. Everything else has been given a break. I tend to draw one conclusion after this budgetary procedure, namely that so-called heart matters are dangerous. They always have a glare effect, which gives you a severely impaired side view. Heart problems must be carried out regardless of the negative consequences. I refuse to believe that it is only the beam in my own eye that prevents me from seeing the excellence of the cash support. In my view, the government parties have behaved with a great deal of pride towards the Workers' Party this autumn. It is said that there is haughtiness at the front, following shame and damage. And when pride is combined with political prestige, the result is devastating. We are now looking at many of the items on the budgets we are dealing with today. When I'm so hard on my judgment, it's also a disappointment. I had a hope that the center would at least try to live up to some of the things they said in the last period, and in cooperation with the Workers' Party try to get a leverage for the most important tasks in our society – for those who need it the most, in order to balance the differences, not strengthen them, in order to strengthen the effort for a better growing-up environment, not weaken it. The lack of willingness to compromise on the heart issue put a stop to such cooperation. The centre parties were better served to go on chords with everything else, including their own integrity, in cooperation with the Progress Party – the former archenemy of the Center Party. So the Center Party also preferred a lot more right-wing policy. Over to a matter of political storm around, namely, the activities of State Building. I find reason to warn against hasty conclusions being drawn. There is, however, no doubt the basis for asking more questions, but there is no need to give the privatisation champions water on the mill. In fact, there will still be a need for a powerful body to deal with the responsibility of the state builder. We need a body that takes care of the state interests related to the management, operation and maintenance of properties and that can develop state properties in a way that takes care of the economy, culture and environment. We also need State Building as a central builder that can provide functional and cost-effective premises for state activities. I am pleased that the entire committee has joined the department's assessments on the governance and organisation of state buildings, as expressed in the proposition. The committee has noticed that the ministry will review this, which I think is also necessary. Due to many and large cost exceedances, it is also necessary to look at the procedure for setting the cost frameworks of the projects. I think I should mention two projects in particular. The first is the Castle. Here we experienced great headlines in the daily press about the scope and standard of work. After the Committee's inspection, I would say that the basis for the headings was not present in any way. In my view, what has been done, very soberly, is taking into account that, after all, we are talking about the only castle we have in Norway. The Committee was also given a good insight into the scope of the rehabilitation work and why work had to be so expensive. Nevertheless, I would like to agree with the Government when, in agreement with the Royal House, it has stopped the work, among other things. the royal apartment, so that one can have a better technical and economic basis to continue the work on. The second construction project it's natural to mention is the new Reichshospital, where it's set to exceed 490 million. kr. At this stage, the Committee is pleased to point out that the Government will make its own proposal in which it will explain the matter and make proposals for extending the cost framework. Given the dimension of the matter, the Government seems to have chosen a reasonable procedure. I therefore find no reason to go further into this now. That debate we get to take when the proposition is available and we know more about the actual conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e882	In its position, the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and Administrative Affairs has raised a number of important issues that my department is working on. I have noticed the positive position of the Committee on the continuation of the castle project. The Government, as previously announced, will come back to the case in the context of the 1999 revised national budget with proposals for the completion of the project and with a cost framework and timetable for the remaining works. In this context, I can inform you that State Building, as part of the planning process and in order to avoid unnecessary time losses, has continued the design of the royal apartment and sub-project 5B and forged the necessary design costs. In order to meet Stortinget’s desire for an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu, the Government proposes to set aside the terminal building and surrounding areas for a total of approx. 200 deches for purpose-based IT-related activities and teaching. This means that virtually all the country continues to own commercial land on Fornebu, will be used for IT and knowledge-based purposes. State buildings have conducted a study on the development of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu among the private stakeholders who have been most seriously interested in entering Fornebu. The enquiry from Stadsbygg to these groupings was professionally based on the conditions around the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu that the Stortinget was particularly concerned with in the treatment of St.meld. No 38 for 1997-98. The replies of the groups showed that they have so far come differently in the processing of their concepts for Fornebu, but they are all to be regarded as serious stakeholders. All groupings want to be organisers of both public and private initiatives at Fornebu. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the State owns no more than approx. 200 Deans for commercial purposes, depending on the final provisions on land disposal in municipal sub-level 2. In such a case, the development interests that need larger commercial areas than those of the State have to be addressed through direct negotiations with the second major landowner, the Municipality of Oslo. It has always been a prerequisite for financing the new airport at Gardermoen for the transfer of sales revenue from Fornebu to Oslo Airport AS. The sale of state properties carried out so far at Fornebu, as well as the existing land disposal plan, indicates that the income estimate of SEK 2.3 billion is too high. It is likely that this amount will be more difficult to achieve when leading the remaining sale due to specific societal objectives. Both Landsbyggen and SAS are rightholders in the Koksa area, covering a total of 90 decks. At the end of November 1998, the two parties made a joint international announcement of Koksa with alleged buildings. In order to meet the Storting's intention to invest in IT and knowledge-based activities at Fornebu, conditions have been set in the call for use of the site for this purpose, i.e.: tenderers must justify how, through their use of Koksa, they can contribute to the realisation of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. Due to SAS interests in Koksa, the State is not free of disposal or of plans for the area. The majority of the Committee shall state in its opinion that: «all plans must be submitted and approved before any sale and rental of land and buildings are made». I would like to draw attention to the fact that the State does not have more than approx. 200 plots of land, including the terminal building, where the municipality of Oslo owns approx. One third of the land under construction, and Koksa – 90 dekar – where SAS also has interests. SAS has clearly indicated that the company will sell Koksa as soon as an acceptable price can be obtained for the properties. It is therefore, in reality, a very limited area of activity, about 100 dekars, the state stands alone and can make an overall plan for. I would like to say that I agree with those who stress the importance of the county council as a guarantee of the individual's legal certainty. I could say a lot about it, but time doesn't allow it. I just want to say that the modernisation committee set up by the Stortinget is also mentioned with regard to the county office. It is important to have a fundamental discussion about the functioning and the arrangements of the administration, but it is also important that we get a practical, correct and manageable discussion. At the same time, the Government emphasises the coordination of the various conversion and modernisation measures under investigation. We want to focus on avoiding giving two or more instances the task of solving about the same question. The Government will therefore, in the further work of the Modernisation Committee set up by the Storting, propose that it concentrate on important areas where no investigation or development work has yet been undertaken. At the same time, the Committee must be expected to keep itself informed of ongoing work in other areas for the purpose of mutual adaptation and coordination.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e909	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e912	Unfortunately, many of the budget cuts that are now adopted by the government parties with the support of the Right and the Advance Party will go beyond the weakest and most vulnerable groups in our society. The Ministry of Administration also has budget lines that can have such an effect. I am thinking in particular of the role of the statesmen, among others. in relation to child protection matters. The Council of State referred to legal certainty. In a letter dated 2 December to the Committee, the Council of State explained the consequences of the cuts in this area. This can be seen, among other things: that before the cuts there is a disproportionate relationship between the tasks and the resources. Consequences will now be increased in the area of legal proceedings, reduction in the number of regulatory visits and more vacancies. The Council of State also states in its letter that some officials may need to use the means of operation envisaged for the follow-up of important action plans, including: in the first line of social services and towards those with mental retardation. A few years ago, the term folder child was a hot topic. A force of force from the Workers' Party government corrected the situation. We can now get a development where the folders accumulate again, but at a higher level of administration. Large resources need to be put in place to prevent it from happening. So there's every reason to fear that the county councils must also deprioritise work towards some of the most vulnerable children and the most disadvantaged. What will the Council of State do to prevent that from happening?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e921	The economic reality is described by the representative as it actually is, and as I have given feedback in the letter to the committee. We have to live with that. We have – even before this budget debate – created a conversion programme for the county offices that goes on how to carry out the tasks they have in a more rational way than today, and we have a review together with all the departments that assign tasks to the county councillors, to see if there is initially a disproportionate relationship between the tasks they are assigned to them by the ministries and the resources that accompany them. So there's a work going on. At the same time, we are gradually seeing a county office where perhaps not all county offices around the country have the same amount of knowledge in all areas. In fact, some county offices have more knowledge and resources in some areas than others, so you can go to the different centres of expertise in the various positions in Norway. What will be the case for 1999 in relation to the practical everyday life, remains to be seen, but I have stated in the letter what I think some of these effects will be.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e930	The government has proposed to reduce, perhaps one might partly eliminate, the price premium, regardless of the fact that the Competition Authority has given strong signals that such schemes have no effect. The Financial Committee has formed a majority that is likely to send the whole case back to the Government, pointing out that the new scheme, if any, is very poorly explored. There have been many signals not to change the scheme, because no one affected by it has been given a hearing opinion. It also states that the Government of the new scheme wants a self-financing scheme. I do not know what the Council of State is adding to a self-financing scheme for such price subsidies. Who is to provide the funds to be continued as a grant if this is to be made self-financing? Is it the case that there should be a scheme independent of the already existing surcharge on petrol and automotive diesel, or does the Council of State have other means of finding funding?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e937	To date, funds for the scheme have been granted over the State budget and paid through schemes in my department. With regard to the 1999 budget, we have now proposed the creation of a future system of freight balancing, and it has been promoted in Ot.prp. No 22 from the Ministry of Finance, which is being treated in Stortinget. The assumptions will be better organised to take this debate into consideration when dealing with the proposition than by taking it now, and there will be a debate that will show what future arrangements we will have for fuel trading. The other balancing arrangements resulting from the disbursement by my department will, as in the past, continue to be covered by appropriations for the Cohesion Fund. So I think it's right, based on dealing with issues in Stortinget that require a billing proposition for a new scheme, that we take the discussion about the scheme when the proposition comes to consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e942	I think it is a little special that the Council of State does not want to go into the debate on price subsidies when it is actually in the proposal of the Ministry of Labour and Administration, where it is assumed that this new system will be put in place. So that should be the case in this debate too, but I agree that there is a need for a longer debate on it. The left was going into the government to create openness, to clean up forms fields and bureaucracy. There are great opportunities for modernising the public sector, and a majority of the Right, Labour and Advance Party have proposed to set up a selection to carry out state modernisation work. State buildings have come out of hope in several cases, and the Council of State has announced that she will go through State Building for a reorganization. How far has this come, and what is the aim of the Council of State in this reorganisation? The county has other people here. After all, the county office has been entrusted with a number of tasks in addition to the control tasks inherent in the county. When will the Government go into and clean up the administration of our counties, both in the tasks of the county and the county? Does the Council agree that too much duplication of work is being done in the Norwegian administration, and can initiatives from the Government be expected to clean this up? Finally, I am pleased with the signals given by the Council of State regarding the development of Fornebu. I think the points made by the Council of State are good, and they have put the matter in the right light. But doesn't the Council of State find it a little difficult that her governmentmates in the Central Party and the Christian People's Party have joined the Labour Party and the Advance Party in comments that make clear the leadership that the state should contribute here, and that the state should almost be responsible for the development of an IT centre at Fornebu?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e955	There were many questions at once. Let me take the transparency first: I actually feel that this government has changed its attitude to transparency in administration. I don't need to mention examples, but I think that's an absolute change from previous regimes. As regards the modernisation of the public sector, work is being done in several areas of the Government. In my department, it's a government secretarial committee working on modernisation. In the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, there is a task-sharing committee that looks at the relationship between levels at the level of the county to find answers to the questions asked by the representative of Greece. Combined with the modernisation committee that Stortinget has decided to set up, I think we should be able to come together to find out more about how we will have public administration in the future. As far as State Building is concerned, I will receive a proposal for a new organisation of the management company just over the New Year from the management of State Building. My goal with State Building is to get me to a future state building that serves the political purposes we have intended for state buildings to have. And that means that parts of state buildings require different framework conditions than those they have today. I imagine that maybe we can take parts of Statsbyk's portfolio and make it an AS, not necessarily privatize, but separate it from the administration. This I come back to Stortinget for spring. In the case of State participation in Fornebu, we can in St.meld. No 13, which is being treated in Stortinget, gives full details of how the country can contribute to the IT centre, how to organise education, the use of land and which ownership models we may choose for participation with private individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e968	I will first give praise to the council because she then stormed the worst around the castle restoration this summer, contributed to the public and openness of what happened then. I also hope that she will contribute to full public transparency in the further work. I believe this is the case and all parties are served. So for employers' policies and equality; I'm pretty sure the government council is concerned about it too. Equal pay, working hours and opportunities for career and skills development are key elements of a good employer policy. In 1997, women employed by government had an average annual salary of 89.9 p.p. of the corresponding annual remuneration for men and for full-time employees. For the period 1991-94, women employed by the state served 9.2 p.m. less than men with equal education, professional experience and longevity. This is documented in NOU 1998:13 After the 1998 income statement. We believe that it is too late for the development of equal pay. The size has direct responsibilities for the government sector and should therefore give a clear signal that equal pay should be given priority. SV believes that the State as an employer should offer an equal pay spot in the 1999 wage settlement. The disposal of this equal pay pot is to be determined, we believe, in the negotiations. It is important that the extra bet strengthens and does not replace equal pay claims within the ordinary framework of the wage settlement. Then I ask, will the Council of State support the idea of an equal pay pot? And if not, what other initiatives will she take to promote equal pay?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e979	I think a lot of people learned something from the castle case. And I can assure you that to the extent that I can contribute to it, transparency should at least remain valid in the matter as in other matters. I think everyone's earned it in the long run. So for employers' policies and equal pay: as a government employer, we have a number of things going on to increase women's participation in the state, among others. a project on the leadership functions and recruitment basis of women called Women, Competence and Quality. In fact, we're dealing with women's policies in the state quite specifically. Also in the last pay statement, we added the equal pay profile as one of the priority factors that were to count on the payroll. Whether it makes sense to have an equal pay pot of my own, I'm not sure if I can answer the representative, but I think the discussion about the profile ahead of next year's interim settlement will be a discussion that the Government will take at a later date. But I can promise the representative, Valle, that pulling women with all the time is present in these debates, and it will still be.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e987	: In several contexts, the government has underlined the importance of working together with the trade union movement. I have the impression that the income line to be in the spring will depend on both a good cooperation relationship and an open cooperation climate. It is therefore with amazement that I read a reply from the Department on 4 December 1998 on housing loans to government employees, where the interest rate has been a negotiating theme between the government parties and the Right and the Progress Party. My question to the Council of State is, isn't this a relationship between the trade union and administrative councils? Or is there a new practice that the Council of State has now resorted to and wants to continue with? In the last paragraph of the letter of reply from the Council of State, it states that: «Appropriations entered in Cape. Item 90 does not affect the budgetary balance sheet because the 90 items are not included in the calculation of the budget balance sheet.’» So this has nothing to say for the budget balance. But it has something to say for the trade unions, and then it wouldn't be too much if the Council of State took this up with the trade unions and didn't let it in as a debate proposal on the government power of the Stortinget. It's not exactly a matter of good cooperation for the spring. The representative of Breimo addressed this with the role of the statesmen. It may be that the conversion takes time, but while the conversion of the county role takes time, there are some who lose, and there are child-restraint children. How has the Council of State intended to ensure their legal certainty during the conversion process?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e999	: The relationship between the Government and the social organisations is of course important. The reference to the year’s settlement has some new thoughts attached to it. We're just going to have an income policy seminar with the social partners from 16 to 17 December, i.e. from tomorrow to Thursday, where we're going to try to find a new common platform that can lead us safer in the future than what was the result of this year's settlement. With regard to the ratio of interest on loans to employees granted through the State Pension Fund, there is an instruction from my department to the State Pension Fund that is based on a standard interest rate plus 0.5 pst. It's an instruction that I understand doesn't change this year. That means next year's standard interest rate is 5 pst. plus 0.5 pst., so that the previously incorporated practice will be continued. I have been informed that the sentence that stands in the position of the Financial Committee – I do not remember the page number unfortunately – has arrived at an incurrence, and in fact is not part of the comments of the Financial Committee. There was an information I got from Lars Gunnar Lie instead, and I think we might be able to take that debate when that setting comes up later today. But I perceive that there are no changes to either practice or who is responsible for setting interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1008	President! To a manifest misunderstanding — that is the very interest rate and the letter of reply that the Committee received from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1015	The President will feel that this will give Grethe G. Fossum the opportunity to record in a three-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1018	I'll draw myself a three-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1025	It's okay. That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1030	As Mr Trond Helleland said before, the leaps are great in this debate. I would like to go back to the crisis centres and point to the very important work done by non-governmental organisations, both in crisis centres, in incest centers and in emergency telephones. These measures depend entirely on public support in today’s society. We might want to do it differently, but since the early 1970s, they've only increased in numbers. They are an important complement to the public offer to families experiencing crises. This is especially true where women and children are subjected to violence. Crisis centres have always had to fight for their public, especially local, appropriations. Therefore, the provision that the State provides the same support as the local community has been an additional insurance for operations. In recent years, local authorities have increased their support, which is why state aid has also increased. Questions have been asked about this scheme and State Consultants have therefore provided a report – Report 1997:18 – evaluating the grant scheme for the crisis measures. From my point of view, it is positive that support for these measures is increasing – it is unnecessary to look at it with concern. Unfortunately, it seems that the government parties will steer this development in a different way and consider a conversion. Issues are raised in the geographical distribution of the measures and it is claimed that new measures will only be able to be assessed in the context of a possible conversion of the grant scheme. The Workers' Party wants to support projects that look at children's conditions at crisis centres. These centres are not built for children, but unfortunately they are a large group of users. The Ministry of Child and Family Affairs has funded a pilot project at the Oslo Crisis Centre focusing on children and a permanent offer is established in the kindergarten sector. The Centre has linked itself to the competence of child-care professionals to meet the needs of children in a difficult life situation. This is a very important work that other crisis centres can benefit from. Victim violence is another area in which more attention should be paid to crisis response for families. Most assaults are not in Oslo streets, but at home in the families, and women and children are most vulnerable. Half of the killing of women happens in the family and at home. Children exposed to violence learn that violence is used as a solution to conflict. We should especially counteract the adoption by boys of such violence patterns and such solutions to problems. The working party therefore strongly disagrees with the reduction of the appropriations for research and investigation work in this sector. The Labour Party has put forward a comprehensive plan to combat violence and has therefore proposed to allocate 5 million. additional to emergency measures. Our knowledge of domestic violence and abuse is limited, and the discussion of solutions to the problems will continue. However, violence against women and children in the home is not reduced by more police in the streets and reduced appropriations for kindergartens and school leisure schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1049	The Labour Party representative, Gunnar Breimo, said in his statement that the reconciliation between the government parties and the Right Party and the Advance Party means a rapprochement of kindergarten development in Norway. I have been interested to go through the Workers' Party's comments to see what makes this big difference. A table shows that the 1998 target was 13 000, and only 3 500 were achieved. But last year, the Workers' Party had no incentive to set up new kindergartens and a very minimal change in the operating grant, so it would be interesting to know what other expansion it would have been with the Workers' Party's policy when there were really no changes when it came to setting up, but only a moderate change in the operating grant. So now they have proposed an investment grant of NOK 10 000 per year. children's gardening space. That's 10 pst. the costs of setting up a new place. What in the world is there kind of documentation the Workers' Party can present, obtained from Kommune-Norway, which suggests that 10 pst. investment grants and nothing to operate would lead to a treble of the establishment of new kindergartens by municipalities? I would say that the Workers' Party's argument in relation to kindergartens is a huge bluff, where they use completely insignificant suggestions to dramatize and late as it really has an effect. I think one could refrain from such reasoning when one does not follow up with concrete proposals that may have an impact on the situation. Then I think it is good reason to welcome that the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have finally joined the Workers' Party and the Advance Party in the comments on IT Fornebu – i.e. an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. I wish the Council of State could also have a little more glow, instead of bringing all the counter-representations, and give some support to the visions that exist to get a combination of public and private interests to develop an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. We are also facing an ICT revolution in our country, where, in particular, everything related to education will meet enormous challenges, as one and the same professor through the ICT systems, this new communication tool, can teach thousands of students. This is going to mean a lot for the development of the education sector in primary and, of course, especially in higher education. You can have combinations with collecting lectures from around the world, connecting the whole world and exchanging information and knowledge. Like that, I have the impression that the government does not see the enormous opportunities and challenges that lie there for the Norwegian community, when it comes to the more rigid public higher education institutions alone. What you need is a dynamic environment that can follow and that can quickly grasp what's going on in the big world. The rigid public educational institutions with lifelong professorships are not suitable for that purpose. When we look, the overall plan is for areas that combine education with the practice of business and with developmental environments. We think it is remarkable that when, for once, private people too have visions of being involved in creating a development in Norway, it is primarily the Right who is interested solely in whether to make money on it. And the Left, who has talked about business, is negative and does what they can to combat just those who want to further develop some of what we've missed in Norway – the combination of public and private. When it comes to respecting and recognising private people entering the public sphere, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party are in fact accepting the challenges and wanting to be part of and create them. Here I can compliment the same Gunnar Breimo that I criticized at the beginning of my post. It's very nice that the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are now on board. I wish it could tip over to the Government so that you could get some dynamics there and follow up the plans that are now available.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1062	The President believes that the representatives should be somewhat reluctant to characterise the policies of political opponents as bluffs, even huge bluffs – only in all kindness.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1065	In connection with programme work in Oslo Arbeiderparti this autumn, I have managed a work in the field of children and young people's growing-up conditions. We spent a lot of time going into the environments. In order to prepare proposals for measures to improve the framework conditions for the urban environment, we were concerned about finding out what reality looked like. We were concerned about the violence perpetrated by increasingly younger children's and young people. We wanted to figure out the real everyday life of girls with immigrant backgrounds. We wanted to know how the police were doing preventive youth work. It became an exciting journey — into both known and unknown areas. In Søndre Nordstrand, we were told that the district, which also has 30,000 inhabitants divided into 10,500 households, has 58 different language groups and 33 different religious communities, that there are more Pakistani and Somali people living on Søndre Nordstrand than in a large Somali or Pakistani village. We were told about youth and a precarious shortage of kindergartens. However, we also saw how the district tries to obtain more flexible childcare facilities and makes maximum use of the multi-use home concept to offer both to children and young people. We heard about Friday and Saturday meetings for foreign-language women with pre-school children, about open kindergarten a few hours a week for parents and children – an offer that captures, among other things. problem families. At the Stovner Police Station, we saw a video about how the station – otherwise on state major urban funds – brings young people with a desperate need for adult contact on weekends in the country for, among other things. to ride and stand on waterskis. In several libraries that have had homework projects, we learned that for girls with Muslim background, the libraries are havens. Here they can do homework; they rarely get any law or opportunity at home. We heard about high school students who were brilliant in mathematics, but who did not understand the essay – and at home the family did not speak Norwegian. In the leisure clubs, we heard about Muslim boys who distributed race tickets on Urdu, who referred to the girls from the same environment as whores because they went to high school, and about boys from immigrant environments who are not allowed to set a framework adapted to Norwegian everyday life and Norwegian rules, and who therefore just lose respect for rules, frameworks and laws in Norway. If we are to prevent juvenile delinquency in big cities, we need to know something about the structural developments that create violence. We need to figure out why we have problems making children from some ethnic environments functional in our society. For example, while we have invested a lot of resources to ensure good schooling for immigrant girls, with job opportunities or higher education, we are now given an insight into the extent of arranged marriages and forced marriages. I have to confess that I cried when I read Hege Storhaug's book about 17-year-old girls who are married to men who can neither Norwegian nor know anything about Norwegian culture, and who refuse to complete high school, about teachers who have the confidentiality of the girls, who meet a closed door in child protection, telling them not to interfere with this, for this is culture. It is the misunderstood cultural relativism that has characterized individual cultural radicals and academics for a 20-30 year period. In the Committee setting, the Party has proposed a number of excellent measures to improve growth conditions and prevent youth violence — recreational services, nightclubs, interdisciplinary cooperation between school, police, child protection and urban areas, expansion of adult contact, just to name a few examples. There is nothing young people need more in the big city than adult contact. Furthermore, we have proposed crime prevention measures aimed at children and young people at risk. The proposals of the Labour Party deserve support and not least a concrete follow-up. It is also my challenge to the Minister of Children and Family today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1084	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1088	Today's debate has been very much about children's growing-up conditions, and I'm always just as amazed when that debate starts. I think you might first have to ask yourself some questions about what kind of society it's good to grow up in. What are we doing to make society a good place to grow up in? I now perceive that many people have a kind of old-fashioned attitude to this and believe that everything was much better before. I'll warn you about it. Because I think if you read history and literature, or if you're as lucky as any of us are, having old people to talk to, you'll quickly discover that it wasn't that much that was better before. You can look around today and ask those who are now most concerned that mother should be more at home, whether they've also cared about looking at all the cars out there, and how little space there is for the children anywhere, whether they think the worn-out schools might be something to stretch after, whether they've felt the buying pressure, whether they've seen all the violence that squeaks out everywhere and poisons their heads at some, whether they've seen all the commercial offers to children and young people that are about buying happiness and intoxication, and whether you've seen the ideals of success that are about money and appearance. I have heard with amazement at the debate on kindergartens and thought: what makes you fear kindergartens so much? I've been working in kindergarten for 17 years, so none of these things have been around. On the contrary, there has been a place where you have been taken seriously, where you have been engaged, where you have learned to say thank you for what you get, and where you have learned to contribute to the daily life, where you have been backed up by your creativity and abilities, and where your family has been supported. I get quite dismayed and bored when I feel that those who now want to turn family policy into old-fashioned look so little what the kindergartens actually contribute to, and claim that it is the kindergartens that contribute to increased violence, to less respect for each other, etc. That's simply not true. So to another topic that I've been very upset about lately, and that's that it looks like the government's plan is to allow the municipalities to shorten social assistance against the payment of cash support. Yesterday, the Minister of Social Affairs said that the Government was prepared to review this again, because it seems to be a very petty and unreasonable arrangement compared to those who have the least, when those who have the most, will get the money unabated, regardless of whether they spend time or not with their children. I would like to ask the Minister for Children and Family today whether it is also such that she is willing to reconsider this arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1097	There is no old-fashioned child policy this government wants to lead. It wants to take the problems of the present seriously, so it is a pleasure today to be able to join in and adopt a budget proposing that the cash support scheme should also be extended to two-year-olds. For the Christian People's Party, it is an overall goal to create a more child-friendly society, and I am happy that the Government takes children's needs seriously. Children are entitled to parental care and time. Finally, through the cash support debate, children are placed in the centre of the attention of adults, not as a balancing item, but as part of our everyday lives. For perhaps something has been lost in the name of materialism. The accusations against the representatives of the Christian People's Party are very unreasonable. Because that's Grethe G. Fossum's own dream world she's still pointing to when she tells us about others. At least I don't feel like it again. Many of us were children in the 1950s and have thus been in professional life in the 1970s, 1980s and now in the 1990s, with young children and older children, and we know what we're talking about. We want to take seriously and facilitate a society with freedom of choice in terms of parental care. When the Workers' Party discusses the place of mother in the home, there is nothing but an evaluation of the child's care. When should the Workers' Party realise that parents can provide at least as good care as adults in kindergartens can? When will the Workers' Party see that people who are not in gainful employment also have value? When is the Workers' Party going to accept that we're different parents? When 84 pst. by the parents concerned in e.g. Vestfold wants cash support, this shows that the Christian People's Party takes parents' needs seriously. This is nothing less than an ideological settlement with the Labour Party's family policy. When will the Workers' Party realize that something has been lost on the altar of the liberation struggle? The working party must resort to prejudices about us who have fought for cash support, which shows that their arguments are inconclusive. Many of us have been active for women's rights, and we have been users of kindergartens. We want to take seriously that what is done especially in the first three years of the child's life is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1110	There have been many interesting articles today, and in particular I have found the debate on violence interesting. It has been claimed that the package that came from the Workers' Party has been a ‘theater’ by the Workers' Party. We have forgotten the drug issue, it has been said, and our alternative budget did not contain a package of violence. I've given good reasons, I think, for why we haven't addressed these things. But all these are excuses that have been used to avoid dealing with an important social problem. Because there's violence going on out there, and at home there's violence. And how are we going to solve it? My question to the Minister for Children and Family – to which I would like an answer, it is not excuses that I am after now – is: How will the Council of State be able to solve the problems of violence that we see today both at home and outside, with fewer appropriations than she had in 1998? How will she give priority? And what will she take away from her own budget to take an active action against violence? It does not keep up with action plans, it only keeps up with action. Another problem that has been raised, by the Progress Party, is the constant claim that the Workers' Party is for compulsory kindergarten. I'm rejecting this right now. We've never said that and never meant that, and we're not going to mean that. It was also claimed that the cash support debate in the Workers' Party has gone into a mess. In all other contexts, this is called principle firmness, and that's exactly what it is. The Labour Party is opposed to spending money on people not using a public service – that is a principle. The Progress Party has also been so liberal that it has claimed: increasing divorces based on the family policy pursued by the Workers' Party. This means that several kindergartens, single school, child welfare, etc. has led to multiple divorces. I will follow the cash support carefully in the future and look at the divorce statistics to see if the Progress Party is right in its assessments. So finally a little bit about that councillor runner and I came up here. The Committee received a letter from the Council of State stating that the interest rate is 6,5 pst. for housing loans to government employees. This does not lead to correctness. The Committee will receive a new letter from the Council of State, which I hope will come quite quickly, and the representative Lars Gunnar Lie will explain this issue later today. Finally, I would like to address the proposals made by the Labour Party, both in the context of this debate and in the context of the next debate. I'll make a correction if I get permission. It concerns proposal No. 20. There shall be sentences after ‘these thousand-year projects’ and the sentence following shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1127	Grethe G. Fossum has taken up the suggestions to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1130	Some comments on some of the issues raised in this debate: Like Carl I. Hagen, I also have to ask for a little bit more glow from the Council of State regarding the development of IT fornebu. I'm not so sure that it necessarily has to be so that clear leads have a negative impact on the price. But it's clear that the more the council repeats that claim, the more it can have that consequence. I think it is important that the state participates actively in the work of establishing IT Fornebu and does not release this completely freely. It is important in the interests of our educational institutions, and not least it is important in the interests of our districts. If we don't get the necessary control on this, we can get a vacuum cleaner effect, like many fears. I therefore hope that the department will really put itself in the harness and follow up on what the majority of people have said. But I'm worried about St.meld. No 13 clearly reveals a completely different perspective from Sponheim’s side — it lacks complete vision. As far as State Building is concerned, I agree with what the Council of State has said about organisation. When it comes to AS, I'm essentially skeptical, but it might be useful. But we have to be aware that it doesn't matter which problems you add an AS. It does not matter how strong a political influence we can have on State Building in the future. In the case of the statesmen, I want to give praise to the state council for honesty. She says straight out that this might be a problem. But at the same time she says that the department and the statesmen can live with it. I'm not the least in doubt that they can live with it. The big thing can live with it, too. The question is, are those whose interests are to be cared for by the statesmen, can they live with it and have their interests properly taken care of? It didn't answer the councils. To Carl I. Hagen I just have to say that I uphold the claim that the result of the budget, the cash support, etc. will lead to a breakdown of the nursery provision. We now see a lot of signals that indicate that. Municipalities are scouring their construction plans pending the development and the fear that the need will not actually be present because of the cash support. It's important that we get the municipalities to implement these plans. Let me also stress that the cash support erodes the very foundation of the kindergartens, and it is not without reason that the private kindergartens have been most dubious when they have given us signals, and they have done so from the first day of. I would say it so strongly that those who do not see the negative consequences of the cash support for the kindergartens must be blinded and have the side view weakened.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1145	Only the following small comment on the previous article: We conduct a child and family policy, not for the sake of maintaining private or municipal institutions, but for the sake of children and parents. And if children and parents' demand for institutions changes, institutions need to change. Something else would be an extremely conservative attitude, even bordering on some kind of institutional conservatism, which I don't stand for. To also contribute to the ideological debate in another area, I would like to say that I wonder how long it has been since the representative Carl I. Hagen has moved into a university. There might be a lot of reasons to think about. But my starting point now was that he made posts here, where he describes all the universities and colleges as ‘stiff-bent’ institutions, where the main problem is ‘lifelong professors’, and that they have not used data. Then I have to say that I think a small company visit for a long summer vacation will be to recommend, and Oslo University is in the constituency of the representative Hagen. I think universities can get better at this in many ways, but there'll be limits to enhanced manufacturing. Universities will be able, through greater resources, to invest more in new technologies and to cooperate better internationally, to cooperate better with business as well, but developments such as: at Oslo University in terms of cooperation with industry, has been quite formidable in recent years, and there is a development I support. On the other hand, that there should be some reason for assigning cheap plots to special groups of shareholders, I have difficulty understanding. I have the approach to IT and to cooperation between private and public institutions that, in order to give it advice to the Council of State, I think I should meet with a suitable mix of realism and glow. It is dangerous to glow in such a way that different groups of shareholders are also treated differently. Many today see a great interest in connecting property development at Fornebu – which is probably the country’s most attractive site for both housing development and industrial development – with ideas about IT. But it is not that IT ideas are limited to some groups of shareholders. Many people have thought a lot about this, and some have also done something in practice. We are meeting the Fornebu development with the same attitude that we have in other areas. Good cooperation between private and public is good on the IT side, but there should be no justification for assigning some landowners below market prices. It will be an extremely unliberalistic position and contrary to all reasonably read and adopted ideas on the functioning of the market economy. So I'm particularly surprised that the Advance Party can foreshadow such a vision. That it has rotted in certain parts of the Workers' Party, one should perhaps be less surprised at. But I think it will turn out.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1161	I really didn't mean to say anything in this three-minute round. But there was an article here that I think calls for a certain amount of attention, because it is presented as if we, who are in favour of the cash support, are against the kindergarten. But we're not. There is no contradiction between kindergarten and cash support. And when the Workers' Party so unilaterally focuses on increased kindergarten construction, increased kindergarten construction in any context, they simultaneously put under their chairs that we actually have a very lack of qualified kindergarten staff, such a great shortage that very many kindergartens today run with very much unqualified labour. This problem is also part of the problem of childcare in Norway. Kindergartens are pretty much good for children, we agree, but parents must be allowed to choose other options, because other opportunities may be better for some children. It's a little dependent on the quality of the different local places, and so one doesn't shake the professional kindergarten staff out of the hat through a budget position, and that's what I think the Workers' Party should take seriously. Marit Nybakk had a very engaged and good post about the Oslo violence. But I must be allowed to say that for a moment I felt committed to the hall of Oslo City Council, and that is not where we are. A great deal of what Marit Nybakk brought up is a real and good problem to travel in Oslo City Council, and fortunately it sounds as if Oslo in many ways has a very good hand with what is happening. There are a lot of good things going on in life, fortunately we have a good city council in Oslo that obviously takes the problem seriously in its own city. We must not get into the unfortunate situation that because there are problem areas in Oslo, we have to set up schemes that make it nationwide. I'm not so sure, for example. it is necessary to establish regular police contact for a school in Ørsta or Volda, although it may be necessary on Lower Nordstrand. It is such overreactions from the Stortinget that often burden our municipal authorities with unnecessary bureaucracy, with unnecessary expenditure on planning that is not necessary for the individual municipalities. We have to leave something to Kommune-Norge, and although most of us who are here have a past as local politicians, we must not take local politics too far with us into the main hall. Local politics are local politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1168	The representative Stolt-Nielsen now moderated his use of words significantly in relation to kindergartens, and I am very pleased about that. But then Stolt-Nielsen concludes that there are problems getting competent personnel in kindergartens, there are many unskilled there. Yeah, that's a problem. However, part of the criticism of the cash support scheme is that it can go to fund schemes for unskilled people, schemes on which there is no kind of quality control. We think it is worrying because we want to invest money into schemes where the state contributes to quality offers that are law-enforcement around. And then you have to make demands for both education, for areas, for planning, etc., so you know how to deal with it. I think you should think a little more about this when you just point out that there is a problem in kindergarten that you lack competent staff in many places. So to the critic who has been raised against the budget for taking away many of the good helpers that the police have and the parents are going to have in their difficult mission. I think that maybe you should think more carefully, because it's not that it's just the parents that affect their children – and I don't really think it should be like that either. I'd like to contribute to being an adult for many other people's children, and I think that's what I'm going to think of, like, neighbors, neighbors, and everyone's going to be. We're going to help each other, and there have to be some institutions that do. And it's the good helpers that the police meet demand, which are now largely gone. Then I would like to say that the theme that the representative Alstad took up, namely that men are largely absent in the growth of children and especially in kindergartens, I think that I was very important and timely. I could want to discuss it a little bit more, because I have, as I said before, experience from this. I've worked 17 years in kindergarten, and at that time there were two men who thought it was worth it, and who found the pay well enough to be there for one year and contribute to the growing-up environment for the children, being a model and an identification object that the boys could look up to. It's the way some of us are women, and some of us are men, and we can't be anything else – neither does it want to. But men are much more needed in the arena of growth conditions, both for young and for older children, but perhaps especially for small ones. I think you've gradually become much better at home, but in the official arena we miss men, and that's why I'm very happy for the post that Alstad had before today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1177	The Christian People's Party will stress the need to have a long-term perspective on the launch of new development projects to ensure the desired development of society. This consideration has also been used in our work on the plans for the post-use of facilities and areas in Fornebu. The Committee's consideration of this matter is concerned with two aspects: Firstly, the compensation of NOK 2,3 billion decided by the Stortinget will be allocated to Oslo Airport AS for the transfer of Fornebu. It is important to note that a majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre, have stated that this compensation is to be transferred to the Aviation Agency, and not used as equity, in any State involvement at Fornebu. This will provide clear indications of the state's attitude to the disposal of the properties on Fornebu. To the extent that these values are not realised by the State, compensation to the Aviation Agency must be provided by other means. The second concerns the post-use of Fornebu and the extent to which the country is to be involved on the owner’s side. Here the majority of the committee has referred to the examination of the notification of St.meld. No 13 for 1998-99 later in the session. The Christian People's Party will again stress that the expansion of Fornebu must take place according to an overall plan that takes care of the interests of the entire community. An IT competence centre must also be organised into such a plan. It is important that a centre of expertise contributes to positive synergies both with industry and educational institutions in the country. The state must have a hand on the wheel of this evolution, and it is the Christian People's Party's view that it ran the government now adding up, just wanting to ensure this. So a little bit to the representative Carl I. Hagen's history. When the representative Hagen presents it as if it were the Christian People's Party and the Center Party that came after the Workers' Party and the Advance Party in this matter, it is not entirely in the truth. The truth is, it's the Progress Party that's changed its vision. Last year, representatives from the Progress Party and Hagen were on the sideline. The central parties say nothing else in the setting this time than what we said in the budget setting last year about this. The majority have established that compensation is to be transferred to the Aviation Agency. Any state ownership, and the degree of this, we'll come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1188	When it comes to the debate on cash support, I am pleased that we now also receive multiple cash support for two-year-olds from 1 January, and I am very pleased with the good cooperation we have had with the Right and the Progress Party in this matter. There has been a very good solution to the budget. But I'm a little tired of the fact that the opponents of the cash support add to us a whole bunch of ideas that we don't have. If the Christian People's Party thought that women would prefer to be home by the kitchen bench, I would not have been on the Stortinget as a baby's mother. Even if we say it repeatedly and terparously, many people believe that our goal is that parents should not benefit from kindergarten, but be home. It is a totally erroneous presentation, which I hope will soon take some opponents of the cash support inwards. We have a real and good commitment to the kindergartens, all the way up to school age. I'm a little surprised that the Labour Party here is focusing heavily on kindergarten prices and increasing parental pay. We're also not so happy about the extra parental allowance, but it seems that they owe the government for this increase, and that's wrong. The Labour Party has not put in its alternative budget the means to reduce kindergarten prices, which would be the most likely to be based on their criticism of the government party. When it comes to the debate on the election and measures to reduce the electoral power, the representative Fossum said that the recordings that had come were most of an excuse for not taking a stand on the Labour Party's proposal. It is not. The Labour Party has many good suggestions that we are in, but when they write a lot of pages about measures to reduce violence without mentioning the problem of alcohol, it is not so unnatural that we talk about it, because it is also important in this context to reduce alcohol consumption. When the Government presented an action plan to reduce the use of drugs, the Labour Party instructed the Government to pursue a more liberal alcohol policy than it wished. The Labour Party must also take inwards when discussing the general issue of power. Even if we're not in the City Council in Oslo, I want to take an example from Oslo. The delay after which the scheduler will normally start at 2.30 p.m. 1 a.m. - Exceptionally, the patios can be open until 1 p.m. 3rd@item: inlistbox In Oslo, the Labour Party has helped to make the exemption normal. What some researchers say about the problems associated with power, outdoors and opening hours, and also what the police officer in Oslo says about this, should be a reflection of the Labour Party, which itself has contributed to our long opening hours, and which criticises us for cooperating with the Right Party and the Progress Party, which also has an excessively liberal alcohol policy. I'd like to give a explanation of vote when it comes to the various proposals, so we don't have to spend time on it in the evening meeting. In the case of proposal No: 18, from the Labour Party, I just want to say that we're going in to keep up with existing regional offices, and that we want a greater specialization at individual offices. It will be a strength for the whole country. That is why we recommend that the centre party vote against proposal No. 18th@item: inlistbox In the case of proposal No: 19, that the Storting asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a review of the fosterheim situation, it is a work that the Ministry of Children and Family is already doing. I therefore ask the Labour Party to make that proposal for a transmission proposal. When it comes to proposal No. 23, calling on the Government to start development work and research in order to gain new ideas and knowledge about actions that can be put into action against violence in the child and youth communities, a number of actions have also been taken in connection with this. I think it is unnecessary to decide that it should be done, when such work is already in progress, so I would recommend the Workers' Party also to turn it into a transmission proposal. In the case of proposal No: 24, I found it difficult to take out only one organisation, without one looking at it in conjunction with all types of organisations that receive support. So I would recommend that the same proposal be turned into a transmission proposal. In the case of proposal No: 25, I suggest that one vote against it. The debt-offering alliance does a good job, but the operating resources of the budget of the department have not been found.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1215	I have received some questions that I will try to answer, including: the representative Fossum was in the youth and elected and asked what we would do here. First of all, I would like to say that the budget adopted during the day does not mean eradicating all measures that apply to work against the power of children and young people, such as almost getting the impression. Yeah, that's a couple of cuts. But as I replied in a reply instead, we have in a ‘freedom message’ and an additional message entered in order to transfer quite a lot of money to child and youth work at local level, and it will also be positive in relation to prevention work. In addition, we have just now strengthened child protection work and assistance in foster homes, among others. with regard to the behaviour problems, relating to child-restraint work of 17 million. kr, which is to go to county child protection. I hope that the county councils can have a good cooperation with the municipalities, so that they can address some of these issues that Fossum and others have been dealing with. In addition, we support quite a number of youth organisations that are driven by youth – especially in Oslo – to be direct actions in the field of violence. So we have a lot of things going on and we're going to go on and on. I must also have a strict priority within my budget in relation to the overall economic framework that we have. Then I want to bring in a little heart sugar. I had not thought that when I became a councillor, I would use energy to clean up what my opponents say I mean. I want to encourage those who don't agree with me to say what they stand for, and then I'm going to explain what I mean, and what my government is and what my party is. Then life becomes so much easier. If I could get a clear signal for that, a yes to that today, I think I could go to the meeting in 1999. There is no one – and at least not me – who has said that we are going back to the 1950s' view of family and family life. I was actually a child at the end of the 1950s, and I know that there was a lot at the time my mother and other mothers didn't get involved in, in which we women have a share today. It's never been a matter of going back to the system we had that time. Today we have come a long way in relation to equality. We're quite equal when it comes to education, we're out of work, we actually want to have an active life, both women and men. Then I get a little pulled when I keep hearing that I want to go back to the 1950s' view of the family. Now I want to say it once and for all, and I hope that at least those who are sitting here in the hall notice that that's not what we want. We want an equal society, and we want parents to be able to have something more time with their children. And we're talking for the first time about children under three years of age. I have already answered the question from Karin Andersen about cash support in relation to social payments. That's what we're going to do in the 'on the union' message that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1226	Kindergartens are in focus. The party of progress, the Right and the Government are accused of fury. Of course, Grethe Fossum and Gunnar Breimo have the right, if it is such that the objectives of the Workers' Party are to be based on whether a rage or not. The working party can have a goal of 30,000 new kindergartens next year, and if we can't get more than 5,000, there's a furrowing of 25 000 kindergartens. Per-Cristian Foss was in on this. The demand for kindergartens needs to be reflected in the coverage. In any case, the promotion party does not agree with a child gardening scheme which requires that a kindergarten area be available to all children in this country at all times. There must be a need-to-know, and then it is the parents themselves who decide. By the way, it's kind of nice with kindergartens, because there's only one party that's taken the signals from the private kindergartens in the last three months, seriously – and it's the Progress Party. We've added 245 million. kr in temporary measures for private kindergartens in the event of situations arising as a result of the cash support, and until the Government makes its child care notification. The violence package for the Workers' Party has also been a theme. I initially called it a fool's game in my main post, and I'll still claim it. I have spoken to the author of the document. Initially, there was a package – a plan – that was to deal with domestic violence, but in the last hour the Labour Party found out that they would expand it, without any new measures. The only thing about new measures here is that they're going to start researching the human role. Otherwise, there is more money for gender equality, more money for child protection and more money for action for children and young people — the same as today. It's a little interesting that the Workers' Party now wants to research on the man. As I said before, such research results already exist. It is also interesting that the Labour Party is not interested in the fact that there are 200,000 children living with only one parent in Norway and that 50 000 of these do not have contact with their other biological parent. I have some examples of what such a policy can lead to from research results from the United Kingdom and the United States, where 60,000 children have been included in the assessment. And given the trends we see in Norway today, I'm afraid that developments here are not going to be any different.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1239	On Thursday, the Stortinget dealt with the large area of education and research, and the whole debate that day was concentrated on one issue by the Workers' Party, namely the school leisure scheme. Today, as far as I have been able to register, the Labour Party has spent a new whole day on the cash support. You can almost get the impression that the only area where this is not the one dominant issue for the Workers' Party now is foreign policy – but it may be. It is probably right to say that this one case from the Workers' Party's side then until the degrees have settled that there is no longer a pick in the plate, but in fact a pick without a plate. And I think it would be of great benefit to the political change of words in this country if the Workers' Party were soon able to expand the field of vision never so little, so that one can see that there are other political challenges than repainting again and again on this message about the terrible cash support. Actually, the reality of the matter is not more complicated than the fact that the Stortinget has taken a law decision. The case is effective, and it's over 70 pst. by potential users who wish to accept the offer. It is a relatively clear feedback that these reforms are aimed at, namely, young children's parents, actually appreciate their freedom of choice. I think you should take the time to wait for the experience that is being gained in this connection, and that the Workers' Party should try to free itself from its coercive nose and see in their eyes the possibility that perhaps small children's parents have right when they assess their own situation so that this is a good offer, and that it is a good offer for their child.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1250	Grethe G. Fossum has had the word twice, and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1253	I didn't intend to say anything more, but after this post from the payroll, I found it necessary to say that it should be a requirement that you followed in the hour before you spoke about what was said in the hour. In this debate, the Labour Party has concentrated on violence – violence in society – and has been reprimanded with cash support. Who, then, has concentrated on the cash support? The representative also says that the Workers' Party has a ‘compulsory question’ in relation to cash support. I call it principled perseverance. Because it is contrary to the Labour Party's principles to pay for people not to provide services. We have concentrated our contributions on kindergartens, equality and violence – and minimally on cash support. So my call for pay is: Follow the hour!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1262	I am very grateful for the call – it is a very good call, especially for schoolchildren. I heard the entire contributions of the representative, Fosum, and I don't think I misunderstood the message. I have also joined in most of the speeches that have been kept by the Labour Party in this debate, and I do not believe that I misunderstood the review melody of the message along the way. Cash support has been provided as a standard explanation by the Workers' Party: everything that is not done for good purposes is due, on the basis of the standard explanation, to the fact that all money is included in the cash support. Even the Workers' Party has made available the money seven – eight times during the fall, for alternate purposes, but if I understood it correctly, the standard purpose – which is most often left – is to include as much funds as possible into an extension of leave arrangements in connection with pregnancy, childbirth and the subsequent period. The pick of such a policy is, in my opinion, that it gives a very distorted social distribution effect. In fact, it results in those who have two full - time jobs with very good pay being the ones who will consistently reap the greatest economic benefits. I can't see that it's a forward-looking family policy to signal to young couples in the start-up phase that first they should both make sure to hire well-paid jobs, before they even think about putting children into the world. Then the society acts to set up and give them all imaginable privileges. I think the Labour Party should rather worry about the unfortunate social distribution that is already in the present system, for example. students who have children do not receive financial support, whereas those who have well paid jobs are already receiving full pay in the form of community support. To further reinforce the discrimination in favour of the economically strong cannot, however, be a social distribution profile which is in line with the usual practice of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1271	In an article in the Address Paper on 10 December, I register that the representative Fossum says the following: ‘On a case-by-case basis, we have tried to obtain alternate centre parties and the Right and the Advance Party on alternative majority solutions. But we can only see that we have a bunch of politicians castrated by each other." So, the working party says they've been put on the side line. But we believe that the Working Party itself has put itself on the sideline. The progress party has tried several times to participate in majority comments, but we've been met with a no, we've been met with sabotage. And that this is the way to get a cooperation, we don't understand. So the fact that they're on the side line, they have a lot of cause in themselves. Enough about that. With regard to the proposals of the Labour Party and Grethe G. Fossum, I want to make an explanation of vote, so that we save time. In brief: Proposal No. 18 will vote against, proposal No. 19 we want to be turned into transmission proposals, the proposals No. 20, 21 and 22 we vote against, proposal No. 23 we want to be turned into transmission proposals, and the proposals No. 24 and 25 we want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1285	Then it was my turn to seek to correct the representative's salary in this debate – this time in relation to the vote. The representative's salary was that the Workers' Party had used the money for the cash support several times. If you look at page 101 in the setting, you will see that that money is not used up, but set aside for a fund.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1290	Several speakers have not asked for the word for Framework Areas 1 and 2. So we're going to go to area three culture.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1295	Traditionally, there has been a great deal of consensus about the cultural policy of the Stortinget, at least the major lines. In fact, the Right Party and the Advance Party have made major cut proposals for which they have never received a majority at this time. The new thing is that this time the centre parts have helped to make a track change by actively supporting a formidable cut in the press stand. In cultural policy too, we see a right triangle of the budget. There are differences in principle between the civilly negotiated cultural budget and the budget of the Workers' Party in four important areas. One is press support, the other is the marking of the millennial shift, the third is in the dissolution of the functional distribution, and the fourth is to deprive the Stortinget of the opportunity to discuss sports policy as part of the budget. This year, since I was so positive last year, let me express my great disappointment at the Minister of Culture, who in two major areas has made promises of both more money and more activity, and who in practical policy does not follow it up. The papers are strong in Norway. And that's good, because the papers require something from the reader. They are important to keep up reading skills and our writing culture, but most importantly, the newspapers are both local and national. In Norway, we have so far had a wide range of large, medium-sized and small newspapers. In fact, the Centre Party and the Labour Party have agreed with the press policy and on the importance of having a high level of newspaper consumption in Norway. In common, we have had an ambition that newspapers should be published in most places where there has been a basis for it. We have agreed that national newspapers should be published and that local newspapers should be available in as many places as possible. I have to admit that the Workers' Party was anxious last year when the Minister of Culture proposed to cut 15 million. on the press support. In the debate, I also expressed my hope that the Minister of Culture was not remembered as the minister who was suffocating the diversity of the Norwegian press. It is regrettable to say that the whole and full responsibility for every newspaper, national or local, which is laid down because of a lack of press support, lies with the Minister of Culture alone. In June, we discussed the marking of the thousand-year shift outside the budgetary procedure. The members of the Workers' Party were very sceptical about such treatment, where there was no good enough overview of the use of 280 million. kr. So skeptical was the Workers' Party that only at the last moment would one go in to guarantee the thousand-year marking by a 100-million-dollar commitment mandate. kr. Our opinion at the time was that the plans were not good enough. The Minister of Culture had previously driven expectations around the country about a thousand-year marker with new, fresh cultural crowns. For this reason, the Committee also noted that the Millennium Marking should not ‘steel’ money from the existing cultural life. The Labour Party was very concerned about this, and we would therefore initially wait to decide on the amounts and plans for the budgetary procedure. I regret again saying that we got right in our suspicions. As a result, the Workers' Party has found it necessary simply to fill the ordinary cultural budget before granting support for new cultural activities. On this basis, the working party has proposed to cover the cut in the press stand. 320, item 76 Marking of the thousandth anniversary. Eidsvoll 1814 – The National Political Centre was proposed with a budget of 8.3 million. kr in the 1999 budget. Unfortunately, this appropriation came at the expense of Ivar Aasen-tunet, the Southern Art Museum and the Rogaland Theatre. Unfortunately, the prestige project for the Minister of Culture from Akershus was not well established. The basic conditions were so difficult that the funds put at the disposal were unfortunately not sufficient. The majority of the majority in Stortinget, consisting of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, SV and the Advance Party, therefore took the opportunity to re-prioritize these 8 million. kr from national construction for the operation of different cultural activities around the country. The millennial site in Akershus has thus been exposed for an indefinite period. It has led the Minister of Culture into a situation she has actually created, which is enormous expectations around the country to build thousands of years in the counties, unless money is less than what we started with in 1998. A clear new breach of promise by the Minister of Culture, and a breach of the premise of the majority in the Grand Duchy, to go in to mark the millennial change. The Workers' Party is committed to further developing the millennia of the counties, and therefore proposes that work be intensified by the Ministry to equip the Youth Centres in Ålesund and the National Scene in Bergen. So let me do something as prosaically as the function distribution. In its time, when the Storting dealt with the functional distribution between national, regional/national sub-institutions and focal points institutions, there was a broad consensus that state subsidies were good for regional and national cultural institutions. During the examination of the Culture Communication of the day, the majority were very concerned about prioritising the states that, at the time and in fact also today, had the least support from the state for good cultural services. Today, the majority of the population is in favour of – without any prior analysis – turning the Olav Festival days into a focal point institution. It is a clear advantage for the Olav Festival days to receive such a state aid scheme. However, it must be felt quite unfair for the other states when South Trondelag receives State aid for its cultural activities of between 60 and 70 million. kr, and counties like Buskerud, Nord-Trøndelag, Møre and Romsdal and Østfold are eaten at the base of 10 million. kr. I call for a fundamental debate on which states will be given national, regional, nationwide institutions or focal points. The members of the Labour Party also promote proposals for a review of this particular issue. The sport has a great place in the consciousness of our people. At a pen stroke, the Minister of Culture has removed Chapter 341 of the budget for sport. It deprives Stortinget of the possibility of an annual debate on sports policy, which is essential in relation to the interests of the Norwegian people for just sport. The response from the Minister for Sport is a sports report in 1999. I don't think that's enough. Over the years, the size of the budget has affected the allocation of the state budget in terms of sport development. We have ensured a better gender balance from Stortinget's point of view, among other things. by the sports scholarships, and have also requested that the sports scholarships also be awarded to the teams, so that the handballers, who play these days, have received a sports scholarship. They didn't have the opportunity to do that before. The size has also ensured that more women are prioritised as trainers and leaders in participation, for example. at the Olympic Championship. Another important issue that has been addressed by the Stortinget is that sports facilities should meet the needs of play, training and exercise. I'm afraid the department in its payroll chamber will govern the sport without giving us a public debate on what's going on. I think that's very unfortunate. The members of the Workers' Party are concerned that we should have a cultural policy for the whole population. In our opinion, depriving the Storting of an annual discussion on sports policy is a breach of the enlarged cultural concept. I therefore challenge the Minister of Culture to show that she also wants the Stortinge to show interest in having annual debates on sporting policy issues.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1331	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1335	It does not appear to the representative Fossum, who is one of the supporters of the press support, that it is worrying that the nine largest beneficiaries of this aid provide nearly 123 million. NOK 195 million. kr on which this support is available, and that there will be little left to distribute on the small papers that may need the transfers better than the papers belonging to the A-press or, for example, the A-press. The financial paper? And doesn't the representative remember a year back, when the Workers' Party, together with the Right, was involved in reducing support?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1340	Norway is the country in the world that has the most newsreading people. We have newspapers that we're happy with, that we read, and that's positive. Press support is put in place to give us a variety of newspapers, and the distributed press support is distributed by a key. If the representative from the Progress Party were to distribute the press support according to which he refused or did not like, or what ownership he had, I would refer the representative from the Progress Party to land with a completely different system of government than what we have here in Norway. I think it is rather bad that the Progress Party is involved in a cut in the press support of such a size while claiming that the market can control freedom of expression. One of the examples is Our Land. Our country is a nationwide, meaningful newspaper that gets quite a lot of press support. It has opinions that might go a little bit across the other newspapers. That's why it's valuable and therefore the state wants to support it. Another newspaper, Asker and Bærums Budstikke, which has the same size of impact fields, the same basis for readers, has advertising revenue that is much larger than what our country gets in press support. It is therefore important that newspapers with opinions receive press support and have the opportunity to express their opinions. I would argue that the Progress Party, by its form of media policy support, is involved in preventing freedom of expression, which I thought was very close to their hearts.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1345	The budget proposal for the cultural sector from the central government was a good budget. In spite of a difficult economic situation, a number of measures were identified. We have also had negotiations on the Stortinget where the press support and support for the thousand-year mark has been reduced, and I would very much like to distance myself from the fact that this is the Minister of Culture's responsibility alone. These are negotiations that have taken place at Stortinget, and for which we jointly take responsibility. It sounds like we've removed all of the press support -- we don't. There has been a cut, and of course we are busy with the drop in the press and the value of the press shock, even if we had to reduce it somewhat. In this reply to Fossum, I would like to focus on a common comment in the settings of the Progress Party, SV and the Working Party on the Norway network, which aims to establish a nationwide network of good, professionally driven and equipped venues for rhythmic music. The note from these three parts of the option will lead to the disappearance of the tour aid scheme and to the use of funds for the operation of the Norwegian network. This results in a switch from project support to operational support, changes in the target group from practitioners and organisers across the country to the venues of the Norway network, and changes in the organisation of the use of funds. After the plural comments, the Norwegian network will come out in zero, because almost the entire amount allocated to Total Norwegian Rock is proposed for GramArt and AKKS. All in all, GramArt and to a certain extent AKKS are the big winners of this proposal, while Norwegian Rocke Associations and all the others who have had tour addition arrangements, who are involved in funding their own tournaments, festivals and concerts, become losers. The Norwegian network, which appears to be strengthened after what it says, comes out to zero. The current contribution to investment in the Norwegian network shall be converted into operational support for organisation. Resources for the continued operation of the Norway network must be taken from the tour supplement scheme which must then be closed and from the music workshop scheme. Norsk Rockeverbund suspects its support from Samlt Norsk Rock, and is moved to Norsk Musikkraad without any money. Has the Labour Party seen the consequences of this?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1352	It was reassuring to hear that the centre parties are behind the Minister of Culture and share responsibility for the cuts in the press support. It also means that they are responsible for preventing freedom of expression in this country. There are many beautiful words that you are concerned about the press diversity, but unfortunately I think it is with the words. The Minister of Culture and representatives of the central government have always tried to tell us that they are too diverse in the press, but what they say is different from what they do when they cut in the press support. So the second part of the question. I'm a little surprised that the chairman of the committee takes up the field of music, because when you talk about support for music, the majority, consisting of the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Center Party, have even cut 3.2 million. kr in festival support, which could have gone to rhythmic music. I have also recorded that the majority in their comments has been interpreted in such a way that it has spread uncertainty in some environments. I can assure the representative that the Workers' Party is trying to find out who has driven this interpretation of our remarks. Because there's no need to worry that evolution will go in the direction that the committee leader here expressed. I just want to state that the Workers' Party is coming back with an article that focuses on music and just on the fear that the Chairman of the Committee has now expressed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1361	I must ask the representative Grethe G. Fossum and the Workers' Party when the freedom of expression was dependent on state aid. That one describes a cut in the press support as an attempt to prevent the free movement of opinion in this country, I see it as completely meaningless. One has to deal with different forms of expression, and one has many more channels today than when the press support was introduced. We have received close-to-air broadcasting, close-to-air radios, close-to-TV channels. Most major newspapers have built up their party membership. A lot of people are very good at including articles that break with the editorial line. So the fact that a cut in the press support will shatter the freedom of expression in our country, I think is a very dry claim from the Workers' Party. We actually didn't hear that claim last year when the Right was very pleased to cooperate with the Workers' Party to reduce the pressure support. We thought that was a good step in the right direction. Otherwise, I would like to point out that in terms of the functional distribution, which the representative Fossum is occupied with, and node institutions, we cannot allocate node institutions only by geography. When it came to the Olav Festival days in Trondheim, it was pointed out that this was a festival that went far beyond a normal music festival, and that therefore it could not obtain sufficient funds within the budget chapter where it was located. That was the background for us moving it. This is about a festival that has a long tradition and that has a far greater tension than a music festival. And we don't think of it as objectionable at all. We're looking at it as a right decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1372	The representative Stolt-Nielsen asked here how the Workers' Party can claim that freedom of expression depends on State aid. What I was trying to say was that we want a diversity of opinions in Norway. We want to make sure that we have this diversity of opinions, not only in the capital, not only where there are rich advertising opportunities, but also in Rogaland, in Rogaland's newspaper, and also in Hedmark, so that regardless of whether you have a large advertising basis or not, or if you have opinions that go something across, we want those opinions to come up. The representative Stolt-Nielsen might say that we have several channels now, and those channels are actually sponsored either by the State through state aid, which is the license, or by having the option of exclusive advertising on a nationwide channel, so they also have the opportunity to spread their message through the state. The state does not go in and demand something back again, except that this is diversity, and it is quite important. I would also like to tell the representative Stolt-Nielsen that there is a big difference between a newspaper and a TV channel. The paper stays there, you spend more time on it, while the TV channels don't give you the same information. That's why the papers are so important. That's why it's especially in Norway that we're such a newspaper-reading people. I am sorry, but I should have been allowed to answer the rest of the question from the representative, Stolt-Nielsen, about functional distribution. I think we have to look, in a proper and proper way, at what state crowns go to the different states, divided by these institutions, in the context of the functional distribution. That would be fair, and I think we'll find some cultural projects in the states that are worth more than the Olav Festival days in Trondheim.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15.ana.ud1859e1383	The cord shift is over. The time for tomorrow's meeting is over. This meeting will be cancelled and a new meeting will be scheduled at 9.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
