ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e79	The representatives Anita Apelthun Seele and Jørgen Holte, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: from the representatives of Haakon Blankenborg and Erik Solheim on leave from 14 December to 18 December – both to take part in Worldview Rights meetings in India and Sri Lanka of the Workers' Party Group on the leave of the representative Anneliese Dørum from Monday 14 December to Wednesday 16 December to take part in meetings of the Barents Regional Council in Murmansk On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Akershus County: Rikke LindFor Uppland County: Kjell Ivar FossnesFor Oslo: Lisbet Rugtvedt3. Lisbet Ruggtvedt is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Erik Solheim.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e130	Rikke Lind, Kjell Ivar Fossnes and Lisbet Rugtvedt are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e135	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e140	I suggest Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e145	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen are considered unanimously elected presidents of today’s meeting. The representative of Steinar Bastesen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e150	I have the honour to make a proposal to remove oats from the list of endangered species in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e155	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before considering the matter, the President will propose that the sitting be extended until noon. 16 and that the evening meeting will be set again at 4 p.m. 17. No objections have been raised. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. In addition, the President will propose that the Stortinget derogate from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and complete voting after case No. 1-6 on the current map has been completed and then total voting on case No. 7-9 at the end of today's meeting. No objections have been raised. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e171	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 40 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 60 minutes, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party 25 minutes each, the Right 20 minutes, the Central Party and the Socialist Left 10 minutes each, the Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each group of parties and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e180	First, I would like to draw the Committee's members' attention to a note on page 35 of the vote, second column. It is a majority comment that was initially a special comment from the Progress Party, and I am somewhat uncertain as to whether the majority put in place there stands by this. So you can think about that. Let me begin by thanking the members of the Committee for the tidy budgetary procedure, even if it became somewhat tedious, which is due to the budgetary chaos we had in front of us. I am impressed by the expertise of the various fractions and committee members in this large and comprehensive field of work. I think it is a pity that the new budgetary procedures in the Committee cannot make full use of the knowledge that individual Members have. With this, I have said the same thing as I said last year, that I find the current way of dealing with the social security budget in the committee a little bit inspiring and quite frustrating. Not only does the financial situation set the framework, but this year, as last year — perhaps worse this year — the adopted financial position goes down on both chapters and items, so that the Committee has very little room to give priority to its budgetary work. In what I would call the small budgetary agreement in the Committee on Government Parties, the Advance Party and the Right, it has been possible to re-dispose only 15 million. SEK of a total budget of the frameworks of 15 and 16 at approx. NOK 160 billion. This shows, in my view, that the budgetary work of the technical committees is really irrelevant, as the situation is. What may be a consequence of the new budgetary procedure is that the present setting contains very full comments and a significant number of proposals from different fractions, and the setting also contains far more Roman numerals than one previously used to. The Progress Party has found it necessary to include in the vote its entire proposal in the framework of 15 and 16 in order to make the overall health and social policy of the Progress Party visible. The Party's fraction in the Social Committee is reasonably satisfied with what happened in the main agreement between the Government Parties, the Advance Party and the Right. In this agreement, the Progress Party was given a further impact on its health and care policies. I mention here, among other things. that the input-based funding at our hospital was increased from 45 to 50 p.p. Furthermore, I mention that we were able to reduce the formidable increase in the particular ceiling for the excesses in the health care system, so that we are left with an increase of only NOK 30, against the proposal of NOK 260. Furthermore, I would like to mention that the special supplement for pensioners, which in the current year was significantly reduced and led to tax amplifying for many pensioners, is now in place again with NOK 17 640. Finally, I would like to mention the fact that the implementation of the four-year olds’ plan is fixed, but that there are opportunities for some municipalities that will not be able to achieve their four-year extension, to receive investment and operational funds for another two years. In my opinion, the parental package is not delayed in time, as the Workers' Party wants to produce it. In addition to these specific individual issues I have now mentioned, prevented a major reconciliation of the government crisis. A change of government was not desirable from the point of view of the Progress Party. Although in several areas I disagree with the health policy that this government is also pursuing, a new worker party government would get worse. The Labour Party has steered Norwegian health policy for a very long time and has to take the main responsibility for the situation we currently have in our healthcare system in many areas, and in particular that the treatment capacity does not increase significantly, but actually stands still, considering the significant number of cleaning operations that are taking place. It is worrying that the current government seems too much to want to pursue the health policy that has been pursued in the past and with which users cannot be satisfied. As the Progress Party sees it, the main problem is still decentralised hospital operations and the wrong form of funding, preventing a coherent and predictable health policy. The professional offers at Norwegian hospitals are at the top of the world, which we have reason to be pleased with. It is the lack of capacity and the inequalities in the offers that are the big problem. The constant demand for greater efficiency has had its price in terms of reducing care for the whole human being in a treatment situation. Good care requires time, time that cannot be measured in money and efficiency, but is necessary to provide the patient with a fully-fledged, good treatment result. I am pleased that the current Minister of Health is focusing on giving priority to care for patients in the final phase of life, with a stronger focus on hospitations and pain management. It cannot be strongly emphasised that the Norwegian health system should provide life support rather than death aid. Hospitals have been starved with resources for very many years and access to resources has been guided by framework funding, which does not provide incentives for the rational production of hospital services. Public hospitals, such as all other industrial and production activities, must also be able to operate with predictable budgets, which is not the case in our healthcare system. A release of the hospitals combined with an 80 pst. unit-price financing could significantly reduce health cows in a relatively short period of time. Larger production and price financing will naturally channel more resources into hospitals. The share of GDP should be significantly increased in relation to the current situation. In addition to public hospitals, the government should become much more liberal in approving private health services, including private hospital operations. We have now received a private health insurance on the market that seems to have good and strong support in the population. The Progress Party welcomes this private health insurance, as we fully understand that Norwegian citizens will no longer find themselves in long-term treatment queues, and therefore want to spend their own money on their own health, something for which politicians must not put their hands in the wheels. Socialists often say that you don't want a two-part health care system, whatever it may be. If this means using private health services, hospitals abroad, yes, then we already have a two-part healthcare system, which in turn is due to the fact that the public health service has so far failed to meet the needs of users and satisfied the interests of users. In these days, county councils are dealing with their budgets, and in a large number of county municipalities there is a serious cut in the access to resources of hospitals. Yes, this situation is so serious that the administrative and professional management of the Regional Hospital in Trondheim recently went out and announced that they would resign because they could no longer take responsibility for the patients' future treatment. This not only worries me, but should also worry our current government and political health management to the greatest extent. In this context, I refer to a statement by the superior Jan Erik Nordrehaug, of Haukeland Hospital, that the 30-day assessment guarantee at Haukeland Hospital has been exceeded by three months for heart examination, and this has led, according to the same opinion, to the fact that five patients have died so far this year while awaiting investigation. At present, the problems in the care sector are not much better than in the health sector, as unworthy conditions are still being reported in many Norwegian hospitals. Hopefully, conditions get better when we implement the four-year old package, but it's a little ahead of time, and something extra should be done in the meantime. It is positive that the Government has set up a probationary system with the office of senior care in the municipalities. In this respect, I can inform you that the Progress Party has already made proposals in 1991 for an elderly care agency on the land level, but it did not get a majority in that time. The Progress Party is not satisfied with and regrets that the bill on patient rights does not contain legal rights to finance treatment for individual patients within a given period of time. We are also disappointed that the patient ombudsman function included in the same law does not include the primary health service, and I do not understand the Ministry's reason for not doing so. In the small budgetary agreement with the government parties in the committee, the Progress Party succeeded in increasing the allocation to the training institutions with an increase of 9 kr and 7 kr respectively. It was too little, but that's what you achieved. Even with this increase, several of the institutions will have serious operational problems during 1999 unless their proportion increases dramatically, which is also difficult in terms of patient access. The Progress Party also succeeded in getting 1 million. SEK to the Norwegian Patient Association. The Norwegian Patient Association is a stand-alone, unpolitical and neutral patient organisation that takes care of patients’ interests in relation to the Norwegian health system. The association cooperates well with county municipalities and primary municipalities and has a growing workload. Furthermore, the Progress Party has also succeeded in joining the establishment of a competence centre for headaches and migraines at the Regional Hospital in Trondheim, as well as in agreeing to increase the autopsy rate, especially at our regional hospitals. It is also very important for research and education in the future. In addition, the Progress Party has helped to create a majority for a number of positive Roma proposals, for example to ask the Government to consider exceptional grants to municipalities with particular care and mental retardation. I also mention back-treatment in two of our regional hospitals, as well as asking the government to initiate attempts at the co-location of social security offices, social work offices and employment offices. This has been a matter for the Progress Party has worked with over a long time. Finally, I address the proposals on which the Progress Party and the Right stand together, and the Own motion of the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e240	The representative Alvheim has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e245	I noticed what the representative Alvheim said about the big deal, and what he said about the care of the elderly. I would like to remind the representative Alvheim of what the Social Committee said in a joint note on the action plan for the care of the elderly for approx. a year and a half ago, where the Committee indicated that the number of older people aged over 80 would increase by about 80 years. 40000 persons until 2007. The Igland government had based this on the plan presented to the Stortinget, taking into account the number of institutional sites that had to be built up in the next few years, and to which the Stortinget also joined. At that time, the Progress Party was not more narrow than they proposed to increase the number of hospitalization sites by 5,000 in addition to the level proposed by the Government. And in the debate on the action plan, the representative John Alvheim was very clear. He said the following: ‘The party chose, of course, to stand outside the conciliation because we thought and believe, first, that it was too bad, and, second, that the party would now have the necessary coverage of hospitals and also do something radical on the operating side.’ In another agreement, the 1999 budget agreement, the Progress Party is helping to weaken the reform by cutting 153 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the European Communities and the general budget of the European Communities. Here are words against action, and I would like to ask: how can the Progress Party explain and defend that the party is helping to weaken a system they said in very clear order were too bad?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e262	It is true that we found that scheme too poor, because it did not take into account the problems we had at the time in our nursing home with regard to understaffing, with an average when it was a care factor, which was about 0.54. And when the clientele in our nursing homes is on average 83-84 years, the care is so heavy that it doesn't last. Thus, we still see that there are problems in very many hospitals, where patients do not get the care they really need and which we all want them to receive. I do not agree with the claim made by Mr Asmund Kristoffersen that the ageing effort has been weakened in connection with this budgetary agreement. The plan goes as planned, but there is scope for those municipalities which, for some reason — particularly for financial reasons — are not able to get their plans in place within four years, to continue to receive operating and investment grants for a further two years. I think that's a sensible arrangement. What I fear most about the old-age package we are now working on is the trend we are now seeing that municipalities are mostly building nursing homes and not nursing homes. Then we get an extended problem with the discharge of patients from our hospitals, where the bedtime gets shorter and shorter, and where the municipalities are not able to take care of these patients properly, because in many cases a nursing home is not fit.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e269	As is known, and as the suspension also shows, the Right and Advance Party agree on the main areas of action and the main instruments of health policy. Therefore, when I ask for the word in reply, it is because it is a little unclear what the Progress Party means – at least it is unclear to me – when you read the special comments of the Progress Party. The first thing I want to ask is: what does the Progress Party think when they say that a main reason for lack of treatment capacity and growing health cows is that we have a ‘decentralized hospital business’? It also repeated the director of the committee in his statement. As I have seen the Progress Party, or someone else for that matter, is it not that you want to have fewer hospitals more centrally located? The progress party rarely allows any occasion to go away to defend any local hospital, as it is today. So isn't it the decentralised hospital ownership the Progress Party wants to change? At least that is what the Right wants, and I have believed that it also applied to the Advancement Party. That's the one question. The second issue concerns the waiting time guarantee. I have the impression that the Advance Party is both for and against it at the same time. But you can't be, you can be to improve it. I thought that was what the Right Party and the Advance Party agreed by making it legally binding. However, when the Progress Party states in its comments that this scheme has ‘played a total collapse’, and will not be included in any comments on the budget chapter in question, which says something about the waiting time guarantee and only refers to this opinion in the general comments, there is a need to be in doubt. What exactly is the Progress Party going to want? Will they give patients a guarantee of treatment within a certain time, or will they not? If they want to, must they also want a waiting guarantee?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e278	The first question from the representative Annelise Höegh was a delicate one. It is clear that what is meant by the Progress Party and by me is that the decentralised county council responsibility for hospital operations should no longer be maintained, because the county councils are very different, and the offers to the individual patient are very different. As far as heart problems are concerned, it is actually the case today that one in some states has a chance to survive an acute attack, while one in other counties does not have that possibility. That is why this inequality in offers is the most important, while we believe the county council is an unnecessary administrative body. The responsibility of the State should have been much greater in the case of hospital discharges and other funding. With regard to the waiting time guarantee, both the representative Annelise Höegh and I know what problems this system has had throughout its existence. We recently went from six months to three months waiting time, and then we were able to develop criteria for admission to this scheme that I deeply disagree with, because then – as I think Annelise Höegh once said himself – the patient must be in such a condition that he almost has one leg in the grave. We therefore do not think that the scheme has been sensible. It's a costly system that doesn't have any special effect. It is also substantially supported by professional personnel in our hospital. We must therefore have a time factor for treatment, but I do not believe the waiting time guarantee scheme is the right way to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e287	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e290	A recent report from Ullevål Hospital shows that senile and elderly people are being expelled from the hospital for total helplessness, without access to hospital facilities or other public health services that are sound. We know this is going on all over the country. We knew this when the eldering message was treated in Stortinget. 1999 is the age of the United Nations. In Norway, the senior year begins with a serious breach of promises to the elderly. Today, a majority in the United Kingdom is postponing the reform of the elderly by two years. Several thousand older people have to wait for a decent place to take care of. The five batches have used three arguments to postpone the reform: The first is that the municipalities need more time. This argument has been taken down by the Ministry of Local Affairs itself, which, according to the newspaper Sykepleien nr. 19, says: ‘In 1998, there has been a sharp increase in activity and by the end of the 1st half of 1998, the action plan target of 5,800 housing units appears to be met.’ In addition, a comprehensive overview of the municipal action plans shows that 29 500 new hospital and nursing homes have been decided on – a figure that is above the national target figures for the four-year period. The second argument is the activity of the construction market. This argument may have been correct for the central eastern region earlier in the fall. High construction activity is definitely not a true picture of the situation in Norway as such today. The Construction and Construction Entrepreneurship Association does not share the Government’s concern about the pressure in the construction market. The association fears a sharp decline in construction in the near future. Director of Labour Ted Hanisch has announced that next year unemployment will increase, especially in the construction sector. This argument does not hold, and I think the members of the Social Committee are aware of that. The third argument for the deferral is restrictive. The fiscal argument about a need for tightening up is correct. It has also been the basis of the Workers' Party's alternative budget. But that all parties – except the Workers' Party – should run from the agreement on the older reform Stortinget unanimously decided to implement in four years, I honestly would not have believed. I remember what the chieftain Per Hovda said in the last riot of the elderly: "Don't forgive them, because they know what they're doing." During the debate on the major agreement on the elderly, the discussion focused on whether the plan was ambitious enough. Many participants in the debate felt that there was a need for several thousand new hospitals in addition to what was adopted. The previous elderly uprising with Per Hovda in the head ended up in the so-called older billion, which was to lift the elderly care to a more decent level. But what did we see? The money was used for all kinds of municipal purposes, including: asphaltation and street lights. It was said that the elderly also need street lights. No, older sick and nurturing people don't need street lights. They need care, care and security. Through the old age plan, the Igland government wanted to close all the loopholes, so that earmarked grants for care for the elderly would go for this very purpose. To be honest, I was quite amazed when I realized that the government in the state budget opened up so that the money could be used for other purposes. I assume that the Minister of Social Affairs has now noticed that a majority in the Grand Duchy, all except the government parties, opposes the use of earmarked funds for care for the elderly for other purposes, and that the Minister of Social Affairs is following this up with the municipalities. However, I record that all parties other than the Workers' Party will push the older reform out in time, despite a unanimous decision on big business. The age of the United Nations also gives us an opportunity to focus on the quality of Norwegian care for the elderly. Wenche Malmedal's main task in the field of health has been the focus of attention. Working in a nursing home is incredibly tiring and demanding both mentally and physically, and we are going to be very careful to accuse those who take these jobs. But I think we're going to take seriously what kind of rash we can get, if the understaffing gets long. This is also why we in the Workers' Party have given such attention to the fact that the recruitment plan for health and care professionals must be implemented as planned. The welfare state faces many challenges in terms of care for the elderly, health care and public health. Let me mention the following: the growth of the elderly, new technologies involving new treatment services, and increasing private wealth that will lead to demands for better public services. The Labour Party believes that the reforms and action plans adopted, for example: in psychiatry, hospital equipment, elderly care and cancer treatment are essential to meet the challenges. However, the plans will require considerable effort in the coming years. The major challenge will then be to be able to prioritise – to spend the money better. We are actually pushing huge amounts ahead of us in the action plans. At the same time, we know that the cost of popularism is increasing every year. From 1998 to 1999, spending on programme areas 29 and 30 in public spending is increasing by DKK 14.5 billion. In such a situation, then, a majority in Stortinget believes that it is necessary to introduce new cash transfers in the amount of NOK 3 billion. The population does not need any more passive transfers in my view. We need more active offers and services, for example: in elderly care and psychiatry. Psychiatry has long been the stepchild of the Norwegian health care system. This is also due to a lot of professional disagreement. People with mental disorders have, on many levels, been deprived and neglected in public space, but fortunately, something is about to happen. Known people have been standing up for the last few years talking about their own or their relatives' suffering. This transparency has been an important contribution to generalising psychiatry, but this should not make us think that a lot is done now – too much is done. Psychiatric conditions must be followed up in the coming years. Not least, it will be important to train and get enough staff. The Bondevik government itself writes that the State budget will involve an increase in the activity of hospitals in 1999. From the Labour Party's side, I would say: this is doubtful about the arrangement that lies in the agreement. The government itself has proposed to increase the hospital budget by 300 million. kr. One hundred and seventy-five million. However, kr has already been used up in 1998. In addition, the municipal economic structure for 1999 is so weak that many county municipalities will have problems implementing a notable increase in activity. We've had a taste of what the Bondevik government's municipal economy will mean over the last few days' crisis at the Regional Hospital in Trondheim. Rural policy-makers around the country report difficulties in meeting self-share requirements for hospital treatment and equipment. In the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, the economy of municipalities and counties is strengthened by about DKK 1 billion. In addition, the Workers' Party proposes to balance DKK 1 billion between tax-based and tax-compulsory municipalities. The arrangement of the working party would provide a better basis for service provision and activity. The Workers' Party takes note that the majority is in favour of increasing the proportion of input-driven hospital funding. It now appears that the Bondevik government is being pressured from the margin to the margin of the Right and the Advance Party in this case, before the Stortinget has received evaluations and comprehensive assessments of the entire system on the table. This is unfortunate. On the part of the Workers' Party, we have an entirely open view of what is a correct percentage of input-driven funding. Perhaps the proportion should even be larger than what we adopt today, based on a factual and professional assessment. But it is that we still lack a factual basis and an evaluation as a basis for decision-making. Instead, the method of financing our hospitals is the result of an urgent decision five to twelve in a budget settlement. An overall committee points out that there has been too poor a follow-up to the regional hospital grant. The crisis in our regional hospitals must be taken seriously. The regional hospitals treat a large proportion of patients with severe conditions from all over the region, and if the earmarked grants to take account of the additional costs involved are not indexed, then eventually there will be a crisis, as we see at the Regional Hospital in Trondheim. In the state budget adopted today, we also have another matter that I think is serious. The five parties deprive the 200 000 lowest paid in Norway of the right to sick pay from popular security. The decision could put many people in a very difficult situation in case of long-term illness. From countries we prefer not to compare ourselves to when it comes to welfare, we are well aware of the dangerous link between sickness and poverty. The weakening of the sick pay system of workers is perhaps the most unsocial decision being taken today. The loss of this medical right takes place despite the insurances social minister Meltveit Kleppa and the Senterpartiet have brought in earlier. The proposal preferably affects women who are already not so strong. Maybe that's why it's quite quiet around this decision. Indeed, a large majority of the 200 000 are part-time women. And it's probably a proposal that weakens the work motivation of people who make an important effort, among other things. the health and care sector. Knowing the personnel challenges faced by the major health and care reforms, attacks on professional rights and the introduction of cash support may not be the best start to this recruitment work. On the part of the Workers' Party, we are also concerned about the disappearance of the permanent scheme in the budgetary agreement. A lot of people had looked forward to getting a permanent doctor. The promise of the primary health service to which the fixed medical scheme will lead is now postponed for another year. The Workers' Party may sign on all that the Government wrote about the fixed scheme in the State budget, such as: ‘The aim of the permanent medical scheme is to provide the public with a good and accessible general medical service and better use of health resources through systematisation and quality development in the cooperation between the 1st and 2nd line services. All residents of the country will be offered the option of choosing a permanent physician during the autumn of 1999. The citizens must be able to feel safe that they are being treated and followed up in a good and orderly manner and that they are referred to the specialist health service if necessary.’;» The Labour Party thought it was wise words in October, and we think it's just as wise words in December. The Norwegian Medical Association has also expressed strong concern at the postponement of the permanent reform, and has, among other things, pointed out the risk of deterioration of local health services in the districts by a strong deterioration in medical recruitment. The working party therefore found it necessary to propose an increase of 10 million. kr for recruitment and stabilisation measures. The almost daily reports of physical shortages and recruitment difficulties in a number of municipalities, and especially in North Norway, give cause for concern. It is therefore more important than ever, after the suspension of the fixed medical system, that the Government start constructive work to ensure the provision of medical care in the districts. On the other hand, the Labour Party is pleased that some of the Bondevik Government's proposals for self-proprietary applications are abandoned by Stortinget's treatment. The Bondevik government's proposal to raise the expenditure burden for prostheses to NOK 1550 was a poor proposal, which would have hit weak groups, such as: chroniclers and older people. It is therefore positive that the increase in expenditure after the treatment of the Storting is now only marginal. However, it is disappointing that the bulk of the population will not grant 20 million. kr to protect children against self-proprietary applications on, for example: medicines. The Minister for Health is promoting several proposals for changes to the pharmaceutical policy. I am pleased that the Minister of Health is following up the forerunner's independence from the economically strong pharmaceutical industry. Nevertheless, I shall consider it desirable for the future to have a somewhat more complete mention of the amendments that are being proposed. We have a welfare policy on ‘blind tracks’, writes Agnar Kaarbø in the Evening Post on Thursday, December 10. He believes that the last decade's promise policy from the Storting is the main reason why many councillors and rapporteurs are now clawing over budgets that are not going to go on. It has been said that this budget is the ultimate collapse of the promise policy. I'm not quite sure, but what's certain is that the centre parties have had some revelations on the subject of economic policy that were absolutely necessary for this country to become somewhat manageable. There have been high expectations both in the care of the elderly and in health care, and we have expectations of safety when our working days are spoken. I believe that the people of a rich country should be able to expect much of the security and help under sickness and old age. It is particularly in this area that our solidarity and respect for human dignity can be expressed. Despite budgetary conciliation, the Labour Party and the Centre parties continue to agree that the health and social sector must be primarily governed and regulated by public law. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Labour Party has promoted alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e373	The representative of the Eye has drawn up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e378	Twelve years after the Progress Party put forward proposals for price financing in the health sector in 1985, former Councillor Gudmund Herna’s unit price financing in 1997, at 40 p.m. - That's good. What was not good, however, was that the same Minister of Health made a proposal — and was adopted — that the share of the price should be paid to the county councils and not to the individual hospital. As I see it, the advantage of unit-price financing is that hospitals get this money directly to themselves, and they can budget and plan their operations in a more predictable way, based on the amount of production they add up to. Today it is such that the county municipality can largely deal with this money as it wants. It is also county councils that do not transfer this money to the hospitals that have carried out the treatment. Then some of the jokes about the input-based funding gone, where the principle was that the money should follow patients to the treatment site, and that would provide a positive incentive to increase production. My question to the representative Gunhild Øyang is: Can the representative briefly explain why the Workers' Party is still opposed to direct transfer of input-based funding to the hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e389	The representative Alvheim addressed this with the input-driven funding, which I also put considerable emphasis on in my contribution, where I think it might be appropriate to break down some of the ideological stuff – if there are any who have had it in this case – and see what is the best form of funding for our hospitals. I opened in my post that we need a factual basis here, that the government and the ministry are now carrying out an evaluation of the scheme, so that we can have a realistic view of this and not just conduct some sort of ideological shadow boxing fight on the wrong basis. So where does this money go? Now I am talking both to hospital directors and state politicians about the funding of hospitals at regular intervals. That is also the background for what I said in my article today. But the very problem the representative Alvheim raised, that the money should go directly to the hospitals, has never been brought up with me from the local team. For us in the Workers' Party, it is important that we have a local democracy, and that county municipalities are given a certain degree of freedom when they are to make their arrangements. But my clear impression is that the input-driven funding goes for health purposes, and is not used for other things.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e396	The social security settlement this year was the best social security settlement ever, not least because the minimum pensioners then got an extra increase in their pensions. Lone minimum pensioners received an increase of 13 pst. and minimum pension units an increase of 17 pst. But the social security settlement this year was also good because the adjustment of the basic amount for the first time in many years followed the expected wage growth in the public sector. I have noticed that the Labour Party several times, and at the latest in a note in the budget that we are discussing today, has expressed concern that the Government, together with the organisations, must discuss procedures for regulating the basic amount of the population's money. My question to the Workers' Party must therefore be: What did the Workers' Party do in its time of government to arrive at procedures that would regulate the basic amount together with the organisations? I would also like to remind you of the budgetary proposals when the Workers' Party was in government position, because neither in 1997 nor in 1998 the regional hospital allowance was priced. Why is it so wrong when the Bondevik government goes on the same line?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e407	There was a great deal of standing around the minimum pensioners and the supplement that the government wanted to give them, and that had several sides to it, among other things. that the value of supplementary pensions was relatively reduced. Very well known, the organisations were also broken for the first time. We now see that, following the initiative of the Labour Party in Stortinget, it has been suggested that one should have a discussion of the lag in the Technical Calculation Committee, and I expect that to be taken into account. What's a little eye-catching about the budget that's been presented now is that the government in advance is putting in a saving of $300 million. kr in the miscellaneous item in the case of social security provision and in fact assumes an under-regulation of 0,3 pst. I think that's quite eye-catching, and I think it will also create quite a lot of reactions in the ranks of pensioners in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e412	I think it was interesting and promising that the main speakers of the Workers' Party so clearly stated that the Workers' Party would have an open and open attitude to the instruments of health policy. If I remember correctly, it was especially this with input-driven funding that was the starting point of that remark, and I think that is positive. But then I think it's a little strange that you're so concerned about getting an evaluation before you can go on, because all the professional advice, all the experience from other countries, clearly shows that effort-driven funding is going to be successful, the piece price – if I can call it that – must be at least 60 pst. That it can then vary over it, I think too, and it probably also suggested to the representative Eyeågen, but that it should not be less than 60 p.m., is at least quite unambiguous advice on this. And unfortunately, not all county councils send the input-driven funding to their hospitals. In fact, if I remember my budget reading correctly, not even all county municipalities have introduced input-driven financing. So that's good reason why we push on from Stortinget, if we're going to get an evaluation of a good system of input-driven financing. Otherwise, I noticed that the eye felt that it was a breach of promise by the majority that you did not follow up the elderly effort. Like all the other representatives of the majority, I reject it. But I think it's quite daring of the Workers' Party, which not so long ago had a social minister named Grete Knudsen, who promised everyone exclusive in a few years' time. It didn't make any sense. I think you should go a little bit quieter in the doors when it comes to believing that someone commits a breach of promises, when you have such a story. The national meeting of the Labour Party was exciting. Will the Workers' Party now support the outsourcing of elderly care, as I understood that more people at the national meeting were in charge?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e421	What is the matter today is that the Stortinget has adopted a number of reforms both in the form of hospital funding and free hospital choice. I think it is necessary to see the reforms we have adopted in the context, and that is why I believe that an evaluation is so necessary. There are two things I want to highlight in particular: it is that the consideration of the chronically ill and those suffering from mental illness is taken care of through the way of funding, and that we also take care of the need for regional policy. It's these two things that are important to us, because we want an equivalent offer to all groups in society and in all regions. As far as care for the elderly is concerned, there has been a long way to go — perhaps from all parties — in order to give it priority. But the problem has been that there have not been earmarked grants, so the money has been used for other things. And that's what we have experience with in the Workers' Party, that municipalities use them for other things. That's why we wanted to make a plan that had no loophole, so that it became asphalt and street lights instead of care and care, as the Storting had thought. The point is that we have taken inwards that the money has been used incorrectly. That is why it is good that the majority in the United Kingdom today takes inwards that this money should go to care for the elderly and nothing else. When it comes to outsourcing, I don't think healthcare is exactly the area where it's best suited. That's my answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e430	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e433	Two issues are of general importance for today’s debate: the first is that the central government has provided and has been given cross-political support for the most likely focus on health ever in Norwegian policy in the form of the mental health escalation plan, the national cancer plan and the plan for the renewal of hospital equipment. The second is that health and care are given priority in a tight budgetary situation by all parties. As in the past, there is a high degree of consensus on the overall objectives of our health and social policy. The ideals of proximity, equality and quality are established. With regard to the budget we are discussing today, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party in the Committee, on the basis of the agreement between the Government Parties, the Progress Party and the Right on subsidiary support for government parties' adjusted draft government budgets, have agreed with the Progress Party and the Right on a common majority position. This cooperation within the Committee has been positive and constructive. On some of these redeployments, there is unanimity in the Committee, including the Workers' Party and the SV supporting these proposals. I see it so that once the framework is established, there is a great deal of agreement on the disposals and priorities that the Government has made. Few areas of policy intervene as strongly in people's lives and everyday lives as in health and social policy. It addresses the fundamental needs of health and social protection. I'm glad that the minimum pensioners now have a hard economic boost, and that this year's retirement stoppage is called the best in the history of the people. The action plan on care for the elderly is also an important field of action. Among other things, in order to give municipalities better time for planning and implementing actions within the action plan, the Government has proposed to extend the planning period by two years. It is important to clarify that operating resources should not be reduced. I would like to make a few brief comments on the three areas of activity: cancer, mental illness and hospital equipment. Increased efforts in the fight against cancer must include prevention, improved diagnostics and treatment, including relieving treatment. I will come back to prevent this later. In the case of early diagnosis, we have a common goal of extending mammography screening to a nationwide offer. An overall committee has wanted to step up the momentum in this, and proposes 8 million in consultation with the department. kr extra for mammography screening, so that not only two, but four more counties can start with mammography screening. In the case of treatment, around 135 million are proposed in the year’s budget. in action against cancer, in particular in order to strengthen radiation treatment. The overall framework for the cancer plan is DKK 2 billion over a five-year period. It is important to remember that in cancer treatment there are not only machines but also people. Therefore, this is a stepping-up plan that requires recruitment and training and therefore cannot be implemented overnight. The same applies even more to mental disorders. Here, the human resources are even more central. Therefore, the mental health action plan is also a stepping-up plan, which over eight years represents a investment investment investment of DKK 6.3 billion and a gradual increase in operating costs of DKK 4.6 billion above 1998 levels. In this year's draft budget, 400 million are set aside. D more for mental health protection than the budget adopted for 1998. The personnel situation can also become a critical factor here. Therefore, this plan requires a relatively long time-frame, which must also be used actively to strengthen positive attitudes and raise the status of work in this sector of health care. With the plan for equipment investments in Norwegian hospitals, the government is grabbing another bottleneck, and I am glad that this year's allocation has increased by 130 million, to a total of 295 million. kr. Medical technology has a tearing trend that economic development unfortunately cannot follow. This is increasingly demanding of our priorities. It is then important that we do not forget prevention requirements and opportunities in diagnostics and treatment. This may be difficult to prioritize because the results do not come immediately, and because one will feel a perfectly understandable desire to make as quick as possible for those people who are currently in an unhappy disease situation. But we have to remember that prevention is better than treatment. It is better for individuals and better for society, it is better in terms of life expectancy and quality of life, and it is also an investment. I am pleased that this government gives an increased commitment to preventing disease. Information is needed to achieve healthier attitudes and lifestyles. The increased support for the Food Council, the Tobacco Injury Council and drug-prevention work will save us too much sickness and suffering in the future, and then we will also reap the economic benefits. Almost every hour a person dies of tobacco damage in Norway, and alcohol is our biggest single cause of health and social problems. There is a lot to gain from prevention. What's going to be the next big bet area? There has been a great deal of welcome about the priorities made up to now, both with action plans and in the context of the year's budget. This year, we also see that the large and highly heterogeneous group of patients with back disease has been given a boost in the form of the proposal for a national competence network, which will include all regional hospitals, offering participation to all central hospitals and smaller hospitals. At the same time, the Committee asks the Government to assess whether one or two of the regional hospitals should be given special responsibility for the treatment of the most complex back diseases. I look forward to a reorganization, a restructuring, in this area that can provide better results for the many patients involved. I am pleased that the department will consider measures to increase access to doctors in the country. Increased educational capacity at the medical faculties is essential in this context. There is also a well-known link between the place of education and where you later break down and pursue your profession, a context called ‘the salmon effect’. Therefore, it is important that an increased medical admission has a good regional policy profile. In this connection, I would like to highlight in particular the so-called Western model at the University of Bergen, where student education is also linked to hospitals that have not yet had university functions, a model that Jon Lilletun, the other State Council, highlighted in the debate on his budget last week. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the majority comment under the heading. 670 item 72, as also the committee leader pointed out in his statement, for the Christian People's Party, is somewhat misleading in relation to previous year's comments under the same post. The Christian People's Party will therefore, for its part, ask the ministry to disregard this remark.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e456	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e459	The Bondevik government proposes that old and sick people pay for the distribution of cash to healthy people and for the government's lack of governance in economic policy. The then opposition party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, promised in the election campaign in 1997 to expand the care of the elderly if they were given government power. Now the lot of value has been given the government power, and now they're running from their promises to the older ones. The Bondevik government’s proposal to postpone the elderly care reform by two years will mean that 2,100 older people have to wait for a decent place to care for. The proposal to postpone the elderly care reform is despite the fact that the government party in the Waksenå Declaration in plain text wrote that a central government will follow up the early-age settlement in the United Kingdom in the spring of 1997, which was supported by a broad political majority. Is this breach of promises to the elderly a good start on the broad, value-based and societal mobilization of the Bondevik government announced in the Waksenå Declaration?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e465	I notice that the 3 billion in cash support will also be responsible for this. It's soon not the post on the state budget that could not have been covered by just the 3 billion. It is strange that there is no other expenditure that you also expect in this context, but that everything is due to the single cash payment. In this debate we once again receive rehearsal exercises in this area from the Labour Party, I note. The cash support costs approx. Three billion kroner. It can be discussed whether something is becoming more expensive, for in any case you would have paid a grant to kindergarten if a non-paid cash support. But in any case, cash support should also be blamed for the suspension of the old-age reform. I don't consider it a breach of promise if one postpones the investment right here for two years. We have received positive feedback from someone, not from everyone, but also from people in the Workers' Party in the districts, for many of them were able to get a little longer time. There is no obligation to extend this period by two years, but there is an opportunity to do so, and it has been viewed positively by many. Therefore, it is important, as I said, to clarify that there is an opportunity to extend the investment planning period but that operating grants should go as planned.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e477	Government parties have argued well for the reform of the system, and there has also been an investigation into it in order to get it under way. Then we see through the budgetary conciliation that there will be a postponement of the permanent reform, initially by one year. We know that both the Right and the Advance Party have argued against this reform. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have together promoted a proposal to carry out experimental activities in the municipalities that have expected the most difficult problems in recruiting municipal doctors and recruiting them to the permanent scheme. It has just been an objection to introduce the fixed reform now that a number of municipalities will be following. Reflecting that principle, one would now have had a unique opportunity to meet also the Government in relation to their need to improve the recruitment of doctors to the districts, and then we feel that neither the government parties are in favour of such a proposal. I would like to ask Are Næss quite specifically: is it the case that the government parties, which in the past wanted to be the drivers of the implementation of the permanent reform, have now actually become opposed to it?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e484	It was probably the Christian People’s Party that saved the fasting reform in its time and made improvements that allowed it to be accepted. The Christian People's Party has not intended to run away from this, but I think most people will see that there are major problems with the fasting reform, as the representative Ballo also suggested, and the biggest problem is the lack of body and the lack of recruitment to general practice. It's a problem, and that's why I think it's positive and it's true of the government that it's now going in and spending $4 million. to measures to increase recruitment in the areas that are weak in this context, so that, when it is to be implemented, the reform can be implemented with doctors for the population, as it is called in a newspaper headline – not only firm but also doctor. That has to be a point. Otherwise, I notice that SV also criticises the government very strongly in order to run from the firm reform with this postponement. At the same time, SV uses the opportunity in its draft budget to run a saving of 6.5 million. kr more than the Government manages, precisely on the proposal that they themselves criticise the Government for proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e494	The representative Næss started his post by claiming that we are getting the biggest investment in the health sector ever. Yes, it is certainly right, and there has been a broad agreement on this bet in Stortinget. But the funding of this effort is probably a surprise to many. Can the representative Mr Næss give details of who is paying this bet? Is it not mainly the users who pay this bet in the case of increased excesses and in the case of the introduction of excesses for young people when they are going to be treated? Is it not true that the whole 70-80 pst. by the increased appropriations in the health sector are paid by users?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e501	It is right, as the representative of Skogholt says, that there is a happy broad consensus on the focus on health policy and agreement on health policy objectives. The funding is now also very much in agreement, at least the Labour Party's draft budget here today does not differ significantly from the draft budget that the Government parties together with the Right and the Progress Party have come up with. It is not correct, however, when the representative Skogholt claims that it is mainly the users who pay this bet. When a user, such as children and pensioners, remembers that for patients with chronic disorders, it is essentially self-interest that will be significant as an economic cost, because most people with chronic diseases will reach this ceiling relatively quickly. And after my assessment and after the numbers that I have at my disposal, it is that of the health effort that has been carried out here, it is just about. one third from the health sector in the form of increased self-payment, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e508	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e511	It has been said that prosperity is the transition from poverty to dissatisfaction. There may be signs that we in Norway are in the process of reaching the age of dissatisfaction. But in relation to the age of self-satisfaction, this is a long way to go. We are a small and rich country with a quite homogeneous population characterized by small social divisions. In an international context, therefore, the Norwegian health, welfare and pension system is of good character. That's why there's always a review tone from government-responsible parties that we have essentially one of the world's best health services and the best social security systems, and that there's never been so much money spent on health and well-being as it is today. It was right in the Willoch government's time, it was right under Gro Harlem Brundtland's governments, and that's right today. The problem is that the possibilities have also become so much larger than they were before. And with the possibilities also growing the desires, understandably enough. That's why we'll always be in arrears. For the health system's paradox is that the better it gets, the more patients, the disabled and the older we get. The needs are almost infinite, while the resources are limited. Therefore, priority and optimal use of resources will always be a challenge. The right has long thought that our health care system was over-mature for reform, and fortunately, this view wins out bigger and bigger terrain. But it could've gone faster. Nevertheless, we are pleased to have had an important impact in the negotiations with the government parties this autumn. Important prevention measures are strengthened, inter alia: through increased commitment to mammography screening in collaboration with private. We get a larger input of effort-driven funding, we get the postponement of the fixed reform and greater emphasis on incentives in out-side areas to improve medical coverage, so that the fixed reform can become more than a paper determination in its time. Yes, there has been a greater consensus on the instruments for a more patient-oriented healthcare in recent years. It's a pleasure. There has been a greater understanding of the need to raise neglected areas of health care. The budgetary neglect of cancer services and psychiatry that took place for many years is now joyously over. Unfortunately, the last few days, weeks and months have also shown that not least psychiatry needs to rebuild institutional treatment facilities. Finally, parental care shall be brought up to a decent level that allows a worthy old age even when a person becomes heavily in need of help. So these force roofs have no partial political disagreement, at least not of any size. I therefore allow myself to mention that this is not exactly the case, as I think the Minister of Health was injured to give an impression of his otherwise excellent interviews on several TV channels yesterday, that he is the one who has initiated something that he has managed to bring with him. It's actually the opposite; it's because the Storing has been sorry that changing governments don't have the power to prioritize these areas. In other words, sometimes so-called wholesalers are necessary in order to have binding economic escalation plans. However, the main problem remains that we do not use the resources – either economically or personally – in the best way for patients. We're on our way to a better system, but it's still far ahead. We're moving a little too slowly, and that means that many patients still have to wait too long to get the help they rightly require and need. And for the right, it is not acceptable that old instruments should be retained even if it is proven to be overly effective, for: The sick pay scheme – the world’s best sick pay scheme – stands in the way of a completely necessary effort to reduce the waiting time for patients in need of surgery, whether they have sick pay rights or they do not. The counties stand in the way of making Norway a health realm — perhaps health regions can make it easier to see the country as a whole, but they can also become a fourth level of government and therefore make it more difficult. Public monopolies on rentals and employment services stand in the way of providing adequate health professionals, both as temporary workers and as permanent workers. Unwilling private contributions also hinders the better use of health funds. In Balsfjord, Finland, they are, for example, now in the process of losing his local and only specialist ear-nose neck because the county municipality will not give him a private contract. Resistance to the outsourcing of care services hinders and prevents older people from choosing better home care, home care, nursing homes or nursing homes because there is only one supplier – the municipality. Right is convinced that many outlying districts would have a better coverage and greater stability of doctors and other health professionals if they looked practical and not ideologically at the issue of private participation in health services. As long as we maintain – and that is right – that the public should have the primary responsibility for funding healthcare, it should be of secondary interest whether public or private employees are performing and providing the service. Yes, in many contexts it would be better to allow private practitioners to provide the health service, because they are naturally more effective because they have a smaller unit to manage. They may plan and manage activities easier than public institutions because they are exempt from immediate assistance, meetings and bureaucracy. If we're going to be serious about putting the patient first, we have to be willing to look at the instruments without prejudice. Therefore, the Right will have national, state responsibility for hospitals to avoid disclaimer between administrative levels. Who the hospitals are owned by is of less interest, but we will give the individual hospital great freedom within the agreed medical and financial framework. There is no complete market management here, as the Workers' Party sometimes believes, but to give hospitals freedom within the framework that we draw up here in Stortinget. Therefore, we will also give patients the right to treatment, free hospital choice, free medicine, and we want the money to accompany patients directly to the hospital. The input-driven funding should be extended to 60 pst. to be optimal. It's going in the right direction, but it's going too late. Because the Right is a non-condemned party, it is very gratifying to note that we, as the only party, are behind all the majority proposals in today's position. When, for example, Contribute to considering the introduction of an upper ceiling for reimbursement from the public interest to the individual private practitioner general practitioner, because we feel confident that this would be a scheme that could be far better than the ‘Action for proper charging’ of the Rikstrøgdeverket in order to detect abuse of the tariff system. That is why, if agreement is reached through negotiations, this system should be replaced by what is being done today in the Reichsrügdewerk, which is both circumstantial and cumbersome. I therefore allow myself to ask: why is the Progress Party not included in this proposal? And on the other hand, why is it that the Labour Party, the Government Parties and the Advance Party do not agree to make demands for high deliverability of medicinal products in the reference price system? Why is the Workers' Party and the SV not involved in increasing the input-driven funding to 50 pst., when it is actually demonstrated that the system leads to activity growth and benefits patients? I have also seen that the Workers' Party has no problems in expanding a reference price system that has not been evaluated, despite the fact that it has been proven that this system does not benefit patients. This leads to higher proportions, which have been said not to exist, and it is therefore attacked by both patient organisations, pharmacies and doctors. The right has also been shown by many, perhaps most, of our smaller initiatives in this year's budgetary position: We've got the entire committee involved in a research project on the proper use of medicines. We're getting into a multi-annual national action programme against osteoarthritis. We get the majority for a concentration of responsibility for complicated back diseases and back out clinics. We get an assessment of the medical training at SiA. We're sending a test group of muscle disease to the South training center to assess its effect. Hopefully, we'll get a refund right for doctors over 70 years if they're good practice otherwise. We're going to have to evaluate a cost ceiling number. 2 for prostheses. We are very pleased with this, but the great grips, making health policy a national responsibility, which is more important than local democracy, have not yet been given a majority. Therefore, perhaps some of the most important things remain to get a Norwegian healthcare system to really be on the side of patients. I am addressing the suggestions that the right has in the setting, either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e579	Annelise Höegh has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e584	We have recorded in the autumn, after the draft state budget was presented, that many hospitals will have very major financial problems next year. The regional hospital in Trondheim has sent the strongest messages, but the situation is very difficult even in several other hospitals. In its primary draft budget, the right has reduced the total revenue in the municipal sector by approx. DKK 2.5 billion. The free income of the local government sector has been reduced by about NOK 2 billion. Is not the representative of Høegh concerned that such a reduction in the free revenues would have contributed to the hospital’s becoming even more difficult in the economic situation, although the share of the reimbursement of input-driven funding will increase to 50 pst. with effect from 1 January 1999? I am aware that the Right will put down the county councils and let the State take over the responsibility for hospital operations. Many claim that county municipalities give priority to other sectors rather than to the health sector. Is the representative also in agreement with such a claim, or is the representative aware that many municipalities that are economically struggling are depriving other sectors, such as the cultural and road budgets, in order to ring the bells of health and education budgets around the counties?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e593	Yes, I will give Skogholt justice in that there are many hospitals that are struggling with excessive budgets, but I do not agree with him that the primary and alternative government budget would make this situation worse, rather on the contrary, because public funds also lose value if the result is that we maintain a public expenditure level that leads to an increase in price. If it had become the majority of the Workers' Party's alternative budget, we would have tax increases that would have been quite dramatic, which in turn might have led to an increase in pay demands for spring, so here are many elements that contribute to determining the result you're left with in hospitals. We are convinced that the alternative we have put forward, which is more of a priority for health than many other alternatives, would give hospitals better opportunity to pursue a policy that could help more patients faster than we can see. And here, of course, effort-driven funding is an important tool. But, at all, being willing to cut public spending and prioritize health higher is perhaps the most important thing we do this year. When we want to put the county councils down, to answer the last part of the question, it's not because we think the county councils are doing a bad job. I'm sure that's right, as Skogholt said, a lot of them might cut more into culture and other things than health and education. They're doing the best they can. It's just that the system doesn't make sense anymore. The health sector has become too complicated, too large a area to be properly managed and prioritised, if we divide our population-wide small country, 4 million, into 19 units. We want the state to take over because we see that health should have a national priority in order to make the funds as sensible as possible – not because the county councils within their territory are doing a bad job. I don't think they do.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e603	The right is in the position on a majority decision, which I find alarming, namely the introduction of reimbursement caps from the popular rights of general practitioners. The reasons for the decision seem to be strongly substituting. This is particularly underlined by the assumption that this ceiling will provide a saving for the population’s return of a total of 200 million. kr. I find the decision both as a suspicion of the medical business and as impracticable. You're assuming a saving of 200 million. kr, there will be very many general practitioners reaching the ceiling early in the year of operation. And what is the situation of the patient, especially if we were to have a fixed medical system in place? It really surprises me that the Right supports this proposal, and I allow myself to ask the representative Annelise Höegh: what is the reason for this support? Could it be that if we were to have a system like this, it would virtually make the implementation of the fixed medical system impossible, and I know that the Right is against it. If that's the purpose, then the holy means can be.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e610	It's nice to have lines written in advance. If the manager had listened to my post, he would have heard my reasons for joining in on this decision. If the manager had also read the settings – and I must believe he has done so, but then he has not read so well – he would see that it is a matter of considering an upper roof. It is quite clear in the setting that it is important that the ceiling is set so high that it does not affect those who want to work extra. And if – I have now reached the third if – the committee leader had read the setting, and I have to assume that he has, he would not say to the right that we require a saving of 200 million. kr. We don't. That's what SV does. So that line I feel maybe I would have more to say if it was directed to SV, and not to the Right. I would rather end by repeating my question to the chairperson of the committee: I am not interested in the fact that we are going to have a system that exposes abuse, because it is the abuse we want to live by reviewing this new system, which, as I said in my contribution, should perhaps come to the end of what the Rikstrygdeverket has now been running for a few years, ‘Action of proper pricing’, which has rightly been felt as a bit of a hard-core review and a destructive use of resources by the individual doctor. In this context, it will be possible to arrive at a system that is less bureaucratic, more transparent and designed to take those who abuse the system, and of course there are some of them within any group — including within the medical group. And if the Progress Party is not concerned with getting a public use of sensible social security funds, I must say I am very surprised.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e619	The new freedom of the right also benefits SV, and we have had good cooperation in some important areas. This applies not least to medications, where I believe that the Right in cooperation with SV are now drivers to change the entire reimbursement system or payment system related to medications. I hope we get the job done until one day we get the majority for it, because it's obviously public waste with funds like the reference price system now works. I'll still ask, if I reach it, two questions to the Right. One concerns the operation of hospitals and the increased input-driven funding. Of course, there may be an incentive to get compensation for what is done and to increase the activity. However, at the same time — and that is the back of the medal — this leads to a reduced framework for the operation of hospitals themselves. This means that hospitals that are initially not up-to-date do not have professional staff and thus cannot maintain a high level of operation, are affected and have reduced their income. Does it not see the right concern in increasing the input-driven funding so quickly when you do not have an overview of that type of ring-effect? The second question is also linked to reimbursements from popular security. It is the case that a number of private interventions and treatments are now being made with reimbursement from popular protection. I've got numbers in the case of heart surgery, where they get $8,000 for an operation, a so-called coronary bypass surgery, where the surgeon is in the operating room for 30 minutes. Everything is prepared by others, the chest is opened by others. In one day, the surgeon has earned NOK 24 000 on three interventions he has been on, which for his part has taken up an hour and a half. Does the Right consider that there is a need to review this type of reimbursement scheme in relation to private individuals in order to prevent the use of public funds for unsuitable private enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e628	I think it's important to try to be open to prejudice. If, as I said, you're going to be out to find systems that work for the patient's best, you don't have ideological hang-ups. But although the Right and SV can cooperate in many areas, which I think is very positive, I think that SV has a small ‘hang-up’ in terms of private health care. So we are involved in putting the search light on the possible misuse of reimbursement funds by private individuals. And of course it shouldn't be especially for general practitioners, it might as well be private specialists. But why really just limit this search light to private practice? There is equal reason to consider how the funds are used by the public in a public context. This is where I think that SV, and partly the Workers' Party, because I feel that they have also been in the same way as most of us – if I am now to distribute wishes for Christmas and good New Year – have come together more in this social and health setting than we have done in previous years, because many have shown prejudice in relation to the positions of others. However, this must not lead to the exclusion of public activities from this search light. This is the main reason why the Right believes that we need another funding system through input-driven funding, which in other countries turns out to be effective, and which in this country, with the very economical experience we have so far, also proves to be very successful. When you read the government's budget proposal, it shows that so far, at all points, none of the negative things you feared about effort-driven financing have turned on.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e637	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e640	It is tempting when Annelise Höegh, to the extent that she responded to my reply, to grasp what she was raising. It is quite clear that there is a need for review also of the use of public funds within the public sector. Personally, I am fully convinced that the framework for the health and social sector in Norway today would have been large enough in relation to the areas where the money is to be invested, if you had used it correctly. That's not going to happen. This is not the case, insofar as it should be perceived that SV has a ‘hang-up’ – was the word used here – that SV is not concerned about putting the search light on the wrong use of public funds in the public sector. There is a significant error in the use of public funds in the public sector. It is not least about the travel costs that are now increasing quite significantly precisely because local treatment services are being reduced, and people have to travel longer and longer to receive treatment. This may also be a consequence of the effort-driven funding. We don't know, you should have looked at the effect of that before you went to an extension of the scheme. But leave it clear that the ‘hang-up’ does not exist at SV. In the course of the last year's budgetary procedure, SV provided its subsidized support for the government parties' draft budget. SV was outside the frame, we don't do that this year. We have exactly the same means at our disposal as the other parties, but we dispose of them differently. For us, it has been important to make sure that the proportions do not increase. The right has succeeded in its strategy not to increase taxes and taxes in terms of the tax tables themselves, but it is left in the form of increased excesses in a number of areas, and it is clear that there is also tax. It's taxes on health. In its alternative draft budget, SV has proposed that there should be no increased excesses in any areas, either in relation to self-interest in consulting a doctor, in relation to nursing articles, orthopaedic aids or short-term residence. It's been an important area, and we've spent a lot of money on it and prioritised it from other areas. In total, the total cost of this will be approximately 800 million. kr. However, it has also been important for SV to take the areas that a majority in the Biggest – and a large majority of them – have said that they should be put on, seriously, and ensure that there is progress in line with their intentions. Not least about the psychiatry reform. The government has put up a growth in the bet beyond the period, but there is also uncertainty about the bet being what the intention was. That's why SV has prioritised 200 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal for psychiatry, with increased bet against the county municipalities by 75 million. kr, the same to the municipalities and 50 million. in children’s and young people’s psychiatry. Speaking of child and youth psychiatry, I have now heard that the State Centre for Child and Youth Psychiatry, which, therefore, the majority in this Chamber – only with the exception of the Progress Party and SV – decided to transfer to the Municipality of Oslo, in its draft budget, proposes to start selling places out of Oslo to other states, not to strengthen the psychiatry in Oslo. It shows how crazy that decision was. It is therefore important for SV to bet on psychiatry, but it is also important to bet on disabled people, and that the host municipalities, which are now struggling with significant financial problems, are given the means to deal with the former HVPU clients who have not been able to be relocated to their home municipalities. So we've done $30 million. kr to it. We've also done $10 million. kr for the recruitment of health professionals. The original proposal of the Government, as it was, had a number of weaknesses, that was the extension of the employer period, that was, as I have said, in relation to increased ownership, and that was true in a number of other areas. Then you get a budgetary settlement, where the Progress Party comes in a completely unique situation. The party can now suddenly sit and negotiate what they have said to be a priority, the conditions for the sick and the elderly in this society. Finally, the implications of the policy of the Progress Party must be seen in practice by the fact that they have actually entered completely into the government premises and are able to sit with their hands on the steering wheel. And what happens? It'll be cut in the Drug Directorate by $435,000, cut in the State Institute of Alcohol. and drug research with NOK 73 000, cut in the State Drug Clinic with NOK 209 000, cut in operating costs to disabled people with NOK 151 000, cut in the disability action plan with DKK 800 000, cut in responses to the elderly and the disabled with NOK 390 000. It is cut into the centre of competence for people with disabilities by 500 000 kroner, and the State Health and County Medical Services get a cut of 1,800,000 kroner. Then you strengthen the recruitment measures for health professionals by 5 million. kr, a pure symbolic object, pure cast bread, for you have cut far more in other items. Then you're in favour of a cut in information technology aids for the school of 55 million. kr. The majority of the Committee, which is now voting after the budgetary conciliation and quite different from the Government would initially have chosen to do, proposes the introduction of a more restrictive practice for such facilities in school. At the turn of the new millennium, where information technology will depend on children to learn to be strong in the new society, they say: ‘There is a proposal for a more restrictive approach to the allocation of IT resources to people with difficulty in reading and writing.’ And then you cut 55 million. kr. The progress party has got one hand on the steering wheel, and the cut line continues. Last year, Carl I spoke to Hagen about lottomilliards. We had won the Lotto. This year, the party argues that a lottomilliard should be invested in the input-driven funding of hospitals. The results will be cut into the framework of every hospital in this country. Which hospitals are going to win in that lottery game is most uncertain, but patients become the losers. There are now reports of reduced activity across the country in the various hospitals due to tight frameworks. The party of progress has failed its voters in the areas where the voters believed most in them. They have mentioned areas in which this has been cut, and you could have talked much more than 10 minutes about new areas. And the Rikshospitale, with the problems you're facing, is now experiencing 17 million. kr less to walk with. This is after the agreement with the Government. The Radium Hospital is cut to $6 million. kr. The state centre for epilepsy is cut by 1 million. kr. It will be cut in support of child care for lone dependants of 30 million. kr. And it's cut in the transition to single mothers with 20 million dollars. kr. You give with one hand, and then you take them back with both. It may be some of the concerns when discussing health in Norway today, that journalists are so little sought after in relation to what lies behind the figures of the various political parties, that they so little seek the truth behind the rhetoric and find out: what do they want? What do they want with this country? What are the consequences of that policy? Unfortunately, instead, you run in stock, and then it becomes the politicians who are able to get a copy of the media and thus raise the sales figures, which get the place. But here, in practice, we have seen what their policy could lead to in the case of the Progress Party. They had the chance, but they didn't use it. Either you're facing perhaps the worst negotiators we've seen in this century when you're working with the Government to make a budget settlement, or we're facing a party that says one thing and means something completely different. As far as SV is concerned, last year we had little concern about supporting the Government in relation to the draft budget that was in place. Perhaps before the budget agreement, we would have assessed it this way this year as well. After the budgetary conciliation, this has become a poorer budget. There's going to be a worse budget for most items. It's illusory to argue that the excess will not increase. They will increase in most areas, even though self-interest does not increase much, but it is also just a matter of symbolism. The Progress Party has failed in the negotiations throughout the spectrum. Once the SV's primary draft budget has been dropped, we will have no problem this year going in and supporting the Labour Party's proposal, because it is much closer to us. The Right Party, and especially the Advance Party, has dragged the Government so far to the right with the budgetary conciliation that this is an inedible health and social policy for SV, while the Workers' Party's proposal is clearly much closer to us.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e675	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e678	It is touching to hear the concern of the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo for the electorate of the Progress Party. They were to flee from us now, according to his statements. The last Gallup shows the exact opposite, and we're not worried about this. With regard to the health and care policy of the Progress Party, we have much greater credibility than SV has had. My question goes along with this by paving the way for the reimbursement of the general practitioners from the public interest. I am fully aware that it was SV that suggested 200 million. kr in savings, and SV shall be given the opportunity to respond to it now. The representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo is a municipal doctor, and he knows exactly how much the reimbursement for an average general medical consultation is. I don't know. But if we expect a saving of 200 million. kr, the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo may calculate the number of fewer consultations that will be possible for those general practitioners who have reached the ceiling.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e685	Alvheim asks questions on behalf of a party that was set up to reduce public taxes and taxes and that would prevent the misuse of social security funds. What SV here wants is just to focus on it. It is quite obvious that there is also abuse among general practitioners. I myself have been a general practitioner, and there are some who take out reimbursements from social security in a magnitude that you can no longer defend. It was written in an article about a doctor who had 1.5 million. kr in reimbursement from social security, in addition to a proportion from patients of approximately the same size and operating grants from the municipality. It's a mystery to me that the Progress Party will help defend it. It's not like most general practitioners abuse this. Most people don't do it at all, but you experience years in and out that someone takes care of a pot that would benefit the patients, and enriches themselves on it. Then the Progress Party of all parties shall stand here and defend it! It's a wonderful logic if you're really busy doing something about the abuse of public money.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e690	SV is busy getting more money for the most part, but says little about where to take the money from. In the right, it is important to look at new tools to get the most out of care services for the elderly and the disabled. Investigations carried out, inter alia: from the central association of municipalities, and experience from Norwegian municipalities shows that municipalities can save up to 20-30 pst by putting out competition. of the costs. Experience from Sweden shows that it has contributed to a completely different emphasis on quality and quality control. The municipalities that have opened up alternative service providers have achieved first and foremost two things: efficiency improvement and willingness to change in the public sector, with large cost savings as a result. It has helped to improve the quality of the offer, greater freedom of choice and participation for individuals. Competitive outsourcing combined with public responsibility through funding of options has thus contributed to more and better offers. A recent survey from Sweden, which was reported in the Bergensavisen on Friday 4 December, shows that employees are better off in private care for the elderly. They have a higher salary and a better chance to influence their own work situation. Overall, everyone's feeling better. I would therefore like to ask the representative, Mr Ballo, what is the reason why SV believes that the public should have a monopoly on all services in the health and social sector, and why SV is not willing to try out new instruments to make the best use of the resources.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e697	It is not the case that SV opposes any form of private service provision. The organisation of the medical services around the country is based on some private practice for community doctors who are otherwise employed in the public sector. However, the key is public governance and instruments that ensure the allocation of health resources, so as to create an equivalent health service provision for the whole population. It sounds very encouraging that by putting off competition, for example. nursing homes would create a better service that also became more reasonable. Much of the experience you have, including from Oslo, shows that it's not like that. Nor is it that you can go to Gamvik and put out the nursing homes there, because you won't get any competition. What you'll get, if you run out of tenders, are reduced offers, reduced staffing, reduced services, as you can see in many areas. That is why a critical searchlight must be on it. But it is my sacred belief that if you can prove that in some areas you give people a better care, a better offer, a better distribution of services – that you get better overall, it would be pointless to go against it. The problem facing both the Right and others who argue for increased outsourcing is that there is no such evidence. You can get it for some hospitals. I have seen a list of hospitals in Oslo, where one of the public hospitals was the most reasonably run. Then you have to put it out for competition too – a health home that works well, and that people are satisfied with. It's a matter of having such great faith in the outsourcing of competition that it becomes a principle in itself, rather than ensuring the whole of services and equality for the population. So this far, SV doesn't want to go.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e705	The representative Ballo never stops amazementing me. With regard to the last point on which the representative Ballo was concerned, that Gamvik is not able to tender or privatise or suspend competition, that is not the intention. The purpose is that if you do that, you can compare the price with what the municipality itself pays per. today. And then you can see if it's going to be cheaper. If it does not get cheaper, the municipality can continue as before, because here it is about getting the cheapest price possible. So I want to talk a little bit about the seriousness of SV's number proposals, as the representative so eloquently rises above the budget of other parties. If we go into, for example, sick pay, you can see how SV has aged its state budget. What other people usually do is they bring in proceeds. This could not have been done in this case – but the representative of Ballo should be answered – because there has been a savings in sick pay of 220 million. kr. According to the representative, Ballo, it's because we're going to get a lot higher unemployment next year. But I would like to hear what kind of proceeds calculation the representative of Ballo has collected. So we can look at the point of reimbursement for general medical care. That is the ceiling for reimbursement which the representative, Mr Ballo, will introduce. The problem is that the representative, Mr Ballo, has not made any proposal to impose a ceiling on reimbursements. He has made a proposal to consider introducing it. How to put a saving of 200 million into the budget. NOK, I would like to know.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e717	I had a burning wish that the question of sick pay should come up, and the representative Nesvik should be grateful for that. It's not 200 million. NOK we calculate in savings – that is 500 million. kr. The reason for this is that all forecasts indicate that there will be a significant increase in unemployment to next year. There is a very close link between unemployment rates and sick pay payments. In general, from 1993 to the present, the sum of the daily allowance paid and the sum of the sick pay paid have been around. Twenty-three billion kroner, with about $11.5 billion for each of the units in 1993. It has shifted so that the daily payments are now in the order of 5 billion kroner and the people's money for sick pay is up to 18 billion kroner. With the development you see, which is quite different from what the Government has planned, and with the increase that will be in unemployment next year, it is absolutely to be expected that there will be a decrease in sick pay payments. We want the fasitite here in a year's time. But it is clear that the consequences of the changes have to be taken. That's what SV has done in his proposal, and then we'll see how it works. In the same way that SV has calculated savings on the basis of measures we propose, other parties present their proposals. If you'd really gone into detail about what the Progress Party had thought about when they were going to have 25 billion dollars in tax dollars, you could certainly ask yourself what kind of society you'd had. But it's clear that SV essentially assumes that our proposal gets an impact, and then we look at the consequences of it. That's what all the parties do in this hall. It shouldn't surprise Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e724	The President would like to ask whether the representative, Mr Ballo, intends to address the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e727	Yeah, I'd love to. Thanks for the reminder.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e732	The representative, Mr Ballo, then addressed the SV's proposal. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e737	The total budget for the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs is NOK 167 billion, corresponding to about 14 pst. of expected gross domestic product. Most of the budget – 85 pst. - goes to the expenses of the people. In the process towards the budgetary agreement, marginal parts of the money have been moved on. One must be able to say that there is a total accumulation behind this budget. It is good that there is such a deal that we need to strengthen the health system. This weekend it's once again focused on the minds around the psychiatry. It's important that you get the psych reform going. As we know, the development of the local authority is the first, and we have to believe that we can soon see the results of this initiative. An increase of 750 million is shown in bets in the elderly. In the 1999 budget, the Left understands that the Government is taking account of the pressures in the economy and the construction market when it comes to extending the planning period for the action plan for the care of the elderly. But it is important that the municipalities follow the plan, so that it does not go even further in time. It has also been the focus of young people who live in old age institutions to receive a different supply. This is a work that needs to be followed up, and a job that will free older people's places in institutions. In the past, it has once again been focused on patients being discharged from hospitals too early and sending them home to nothing. This is an unworthy situation, which we still have to work to improve. The budget proposes an increase of 66 million. to the disability action plan. Among other things, the money has to be provided: are used for personal assistants, for a pilot project of care pay, for raising the age limit for care allowance for parents of the disabled and seriously ill children. These are measures that will make life easier for many people with disabilities and their families, which will be a high priority. Where investment in hospital equipment is involved, this occurs after long-term neglect. Increased co-operation between hospitals and investment according to a set of equipment plans will probably lead to an increase in capacity, so that one can process more. Increased cooperation and free choice of hospitals will hopefully reduce waiting lists, without one having to legislate on the right to treatment. The left is in agreement with the Government, which in the revised 1998 national budget pointed out that back disease is so common and treatment is so accidental that treatment needs to be reinforced through increased competence and the development of outpatient clinics. The left believes that a network of expertise will work better than locating one centre of expertise because of the large number of patients with back disease. Cross-disciplinary treatment rates will be a good tool for receiving treatment that is in line with the modern principle. A network of skills might also be a good idea when it comes to headaches. This is also a population disease where a likely need to increase knowledge in large parts of the health care centre. There are several in the Committee to increase the input-driven funding to 50 pst. It is important to follow up this system. We know that it increases the activity in hospitals, but we need to look at the individual patient groups more closely to see if someone is getting lowered. An effort-driven funding should not be increased until an overall evaluation has been obtained. When it comes to the social security system and all other state agencies, it is positive that a job is developing services that are user-oriented, and that work has been started to ensure more cooperation between the different levels. There is also a need for legal regulation. The left is very satisfied that the Government has started this work, where one sets the customer in the center, and where one can get a lot of etatar to the service office/user office. I would also like to support an evaluation of the impact of the welfare message, both when it relates to the follow-up and the economy of single caregivers.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e760	In a narrowing situation like the one we are currently in, it is essential not to harm the bones on which the welfare state rests. I will not claim that the budget position of the majority does not respect the broad lines of the welfare state, but there are re-priorities that hit them with the weakest economy, for example. that one must earn up to NOK 56 700 in order to be paid under sickness, that one gets increased indebtedness, that there will be changes in the training aid for lone dependants, etc. A weak community economic structure I think will have the consequence that the government's goal of growth in patient treatment in our hospitals will not be achieved. None of us could have avoided hearing some significant cutbacks in the budgets of many county councils. Moreover, the economic basis for input-driven financing is not proportionate to the objectives, as the Government proposes to use most of the additional funds for planned activity growth to cover consumption in 1998. I am concerned about the hospitals' finances, and I refer to the Workers' Party and the Right having asked the Government to return to the Stortinget in connection with the revised budget for the spring with an assessment of the treatment capacity. I am critical that the majority is raising the rate of government intervention funding without taking time to assess the results of the ongoing evaluation. There would have been good reason to see if the scheme had got some unfortunate results before an expanded one. Back care has been widely discussed in the Committee's configuration. The Workers' Party is mainly committed to the Government's strategy on a national network model, but I would like to stress that an overall committee is now behind the proposal to build a more highly competent investigation, diagnosis and treatment environment in Norway. I expect that this will be given priority. I think it's very sad that the majority is in favour of postponing the tenure. I am like, among other things, The Norwegian medical association concerned about the consequences of such a postponement for the recruitment of doctors to District Norway. The experience we have shows that a fixed medical system will also provide patients with a safer and better health care, doctors with a better working situation and improved continuity in the patient medical situation, such as: chroniclers and psychiatric patients benefit. Like what is in the budget documents, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that almost all psychiatrists, psychologists, physiotherapists with reimbursable practice and a number of doctors have now entered into an operating agreement, which means a significant reduction in the self-payment of patients who use private health professionals. I know that it was not easy to join this scheme in Stortinget, but it was high time that the private practicers' use of public funds was regulated by agreements with municipalities and county councils. Over time, you have to expect us to get a better spread than we do today, especially by private doctors, psychiatrists and clinical psychologists. I would also encourage the Ministry, in parallel with the Stortinget treatment of the recently submitted rehabilitation report, to carry out a thorough analysis of the training institutions’ financial base. Alarming reports from several institutions on the very poor economy and, in part, very high marginalities suggest that many institutions hardly have an economic foundation to carry out their tasks. In particular, this applies to new institutions with a high debt burden, which are, in fact, predominantly located in areas with the lowest coverage of treatment sites. I think there are reasons that speak to follow closely in the economy of the pharmacies. When the government parties and the Right and Advance Party found the basis for cutting the pharmacy margin, the Labour Party is concerned. But I think it is necessary to look at the balancing system for pharmacies and pharmacies, especially in the light of the economic situation of low-market pharmacies. These pharmacies are mainly located in the districts, and they may have an excessive operating base.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e781	The government wants to present to spring a big message about live-out equalization. As the Social Committee has noted, the message will include: focus in particular on the feasibility, through specific measures, of making it easier to combine work and social security, so that more people with social and health problems can maintain a link with the labour market. Objectives of mitigating disparities and strengthening service provision form the basis for the Government's work on social and health policy in the 1999 budget as well. Let me take the following example: We will pass on the main features of today's sickness scheme. Many older people will experience better care for the elderly because the elderly are continuing. All war pensioners receive a similar pension base. Several people with disabilities have a lighter everyday life through personal assistants and other measures that follow the revised action plan with 66 million measures. kr. Russ protection and preventive measures are added to 42 million. kr in extra bet. In recent years, we have seen a large increase in sick leave and the cost of sick pay. Many of the increases are probably related to the increase in employment. Nevertheless, we must take developments seriously. There are too many people today who struggle between work and illness. The government will therefore continue to assess how the absence of the sick can be reduced. We are now setting up, together with the social partners, an idea bank for sick leave work, various public-sector experimental measures, strengthening the social security system's follow-up of the sick person with a particular focus on the system of active sick leave, and attempts at user offices, which involve the co-location of social security offices, social services and the labour market seat, and to which I have also stressed the Committee's full support. A large proportion of sick leave is concentrated on relatively few people with long and many sick leave. Targeted work against the 5 pst. which stands for over 80 pst. of the long-term absence, is highlighted in the message about rehabilitation which we submitted last Friday. Good living conditions for older people and dignity in our care for the elderly are a priority that a whole process of ageing is behind. The implementation of the action plan on care for the elderly, in line with the decisions taken and taken by the Stortingen today, may be the most important measure in the 1999 UN International Year of Older People. I am pleased to say that so far, the action plan for better care for the elderly has been successful. Plans have been put in the municipalities to strengthen the services that promise for the future. But we are still facing major challenges. It shall apply, inter alia: recruiting and qualifying enough staff for the 13,000 annual works that the municipalities are now planning. The action plan for health and social workers should help municipalities both to recruit new and to qualify the staff they already have. I have noted the proposals and comments made by the Committee on the use of discretion and exemptions from activity requirements for 1999. This should be followed up by the Ministry, so that we can make the best use of resources. For the Government, it is very important that older people who live in poor municipalities also benefit from the ear-marked resources for the care of the elderly. In a tight economic structure, some municipalities will have difficulty making available the part of free resources needed to trigger ear-marked funds. This is the background to the Government’s desire to assess the activity requirements, so that we are not left with unused resources for the care of the elderly when 1999 is over. Of course, the ear-marked funds are required to go to the care of the elderly. When the Government has proposed to extend the planning period for the construction projects by two years, it is because some municipalities have indicated that they need more time to implement a good planning of new larger construction projects. I think it's a good idea for municipalities to use the time they need to plan good solutions. However, if the application entry in 1999 exceeds the number of warrants available to the House Bank for 1999, the Government will return to this in the revised national budget. As important as the quantitative aspects of care services are the contents of the services. There is still a need for research, documentation and more knowledge about the elderly and about these services. The national geriatric programme is an important contribution to this. I want to do my part in the future to further focus on quality, on the content of care for the elderly. A more dignified care for the elderly must be the title. We must employ staff who have both time and respect for the individual elderly. In the Waksenås statement, the government party warned that we would increase the minimum pension by NOK 1000. This increase was implemented from 1 May this year, and 1999 will be the first year with full effect. More than 300,000 old-age and invalidity pensioners have subsequently increased their pension monthly. Since the submission in the budget to suspend a day off and to extend the period of unemployment in the sick pay scheme has not been multiplied, the Government will also, without being bound by the draft budget, return to the issue of the regulation of the basic amount in connection with the spring social security settlement, as proposed by the Committee. In the budget, the Government proposed to increase the military pension, so that everyone would have the same pension basis. It is reasonable that all intervention and assaulters, whatever rank and position they had, are now assessed equally in relation to the war pension. I am pleased that the Stortinget have joined the proposal, so that we have finally completed the austerity of the war pension. An interministerial working group now assesses the funding system in relation to municipalities with specific cost-required users of municipal services. The working group shall consider the relationship between discretionary agents and existing ear-marked discretionary approaches and evaluate any other arrangements. In this context, the working group will also look at the resources of municipalities with a particular overweight of resource-required mental retardation. The Committee majority's proposal will therefore be followed up by the working group. The government will present its proposal for financing in the municipal economicproposition for the year 2000. It is not worthy of the Norwegian welfare community that younger people with disabilities are permanently placed in old-age or infirmities against their own will. The government is responding to the Storting's demand that all disabled people who want to move out before 2005. To ensure a better knowledge of this group, there is now contact with all municipalities in the country to find out why many disabled people still live in old-age and sick homes. I want to get the thing on the background because the relocation hasn't happened. This study will provide a background for further action. It already turns out that the size of the bill is not the only one that prevents the municipalities from moving out. Lack of knowledge about the process of relocation itself, how to make a proper offer in your own housing, means that many municipalities are well placed to solve the issue of old-age and health care. The extension of the personal assistant system in the budget will make it easier for more people to bow to themselves. Otherwise, in the disability action plan, we have found room for others. improve access to several social security offices, care pay schemes and a public selection to address the rights of people with disabilities. Voluntary organisations are key players in the social sector. We will further stimulate it through events in the international seniority through funds to Frisam and to 17 new volunteer centres, and through increased support to organisations that run prevention, drug protection and post-crisis. In the context of the Action Plan on reducing drug use and methadone use, we have an impact in the Stortingen for new 42 million. kr. We focus in particular on prevention and drug protection. Many addicts suffer from a low level of protection and networks after treatment. The relapse is too big. I want to strengthen the whole treatment system, including methadone bets. In order to ensure a good and defensive provision of methadone-assisted rehabilitation, it is necessary to step up gradually. A defensive response and control system shall be established in the municipalities around each individual client. Both competences and tools must be developed at a defensive pace, so that clients are provided with the necessary follow-up needed to be closed. Oslo has received a large proportion of the funds earmarked for methadone-assisted rehabilitation. The government is now closely involved in the development of this offer on a national basis and will, of course, redistribute the funds in the long term if it makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e842	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e845	A majority of the Social Committee has strongly stressed that the earmarked appropriations for elderly care cannot be used for other purposes. With the billions of older people in good health, there is reason to recall that the money allocated to the elderly will be spent on the elderly. I am pleased with the clarification of this today by the Council of State. Will the Council of State step up this requirement towards the municipalities, so that we can be sure that this money goes to a real improvement in the situation of the elderly? We have also heard here today that it has been claimed from the majority that the postponement of the elderly bet is not really a postponement, but an optional arrangement for the municipalities. And as far as I know, it has also been in the cards the whole time that you would get as much optional as possible. Let me ask another question: does the Council of State wish the municipalities to implement their plans for four years, as foreseen, or is it, for budgetary reasons, a wish for the municipalities to reverse their plans and implement them over six years? Will all the municipalities that implement their plans in line with what was outlined earlier receive their money if they do so in 1999? Can the Council of State guarantee that?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e855	Here were three questions that went in the same path. Let me take my desired first. There is absolutely no doubt that an aggregate increase is behind the investment to be made in this sector, and preferably within four years. It is also such that the bet goes so far in the municipalities after Stortinget’s decisions. I want the municipalities to continue planning and follow-up as far as possible. And of course, as Bendiks Arnesen here asked questions, I would like to follow up on the big crowd's emphasis in this committee setting that an ear-marked addition should go to seniority. It has also been the Government’s determination. I can report that as far as 5 200 units have been applied for in 1998. The month of December is again, and this may mean that 5,800 units for 1998 will be achieved. As I said in my post: If there is no agreement here between applications and warrants in 1999, the Government will return to the Stortingen in the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e864	This government has shown a desire to shift more and more burdens on health care users, and so on. in the form of increased self-employment. In its 1998 draft budget, the Government wanted to increase its equity from DKK 1290 to NOK 1390. Fortunately, this was stopped in negotiations between the Progress Party, the Right and the Government Parties. The original proposal for 1999 included an increase from NOK 1290 to NOK 1550. Fortunately, this was also stopped in the agreement that came with the Right Party, the Advance Party and the government parties. The Committee has also pointed out in several comments – from different batches and batch constellations – that soon enough will have to be enough in terms of proportion, because the burden is now increasing for the population. My question to the Minister for Social Affairs is: does the Minister for Social Affairs take these signals in terms of prostheses seriously, so that next year at least these increases can be avoided by the Minister for Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e873	: Now I am facing a difficult balance, because I would not like to answer the reply to the question that was asked. I am behind the Government's proposal in this area. At the same time, it's probably the most important part of this increase in the Minister of Health's budget, so I think he'll also like to have a word in it when it comes to the explanations there. Let me just say that when that applies to my area, it is suggested that there be an increase in the payments for short-term stays at the hospital. It is a rate that has been in peace for a very long time, and I do not think anyone has any countermeasures. Otherwise, there will be a balance between being able to do the services a little bit longer by increasing the features and reducing services. In that option, I have understood it so that the users will select the first one. Next year's budget I will not advance, but what I know the Committee has given its support is the plans of the Minister for Health and my plans to provide an asset 2 for large consumers. It has been mentioned in this setting by the Social Committee, and there is something that we are also discussing in my own department.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e880	It is a question that the Minister of Social Affairs did not have in mind in his speech, but which I think is important, and it is a matter of the Government’s proposal – which has also been supported by the Right – that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, in cooperation with the Ministry of Church, Education and Research, expands the responsibilities of the four centres of competence for deaf blind-born children, so that, together with Huseby, the Centre of Competence for the Visual and Eicholt Centre for the Deaf, can form the basic structure of a common system of competence for the whole deaf-blind group. A common national competence centre will be able to make better use of the overall competence and resources of the professional community and provide a comprehensive range of services to users. It is important that the deaf-blind sector appears to be a coordinated and user-oriented offer, with clear professional and economic guidelines. Demarcations are also necessary in relation to municipal and county tasks. Overall, we believe – like the Government – that such coordination will provide a better offer. Professional environments and users have favoured a common system of competence for deaf blind people and are obviously concerned that this coordination should provide a better range of services. At the same time, however, there is some concern about such a common system of competence for deaf-blinded and deaf-blinds – that these groups should be compared. In concrete terms, there have been two areas of concern: firstly, the danger of tearing down the skills available for deaf blindness, and secondly, the increased responsibilities of deaf blindness centres will be at the expense of the provision of deaf-blinded babies. Can the Council of State here and now confirm that this will not happen?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e889	: Representative Sjøli now points to action against groups for which it is absolutely necessary to improve both the everyday life and the training provision. I would like to point out that this field, as the majority have mentioned, is an area of concern for both the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Among other things, Stortinget has received a big message about the centre of competence. I want to follow up this comment in line with what has been said by the Social Committee, and I need to discuss with the Minister of Education what the Committee points to. But it must be a premise that a plural comment is followed up in line with the intentions that the plural has emphasized.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e896	I see that in a majority opinion, the government parties are calling for improvements to the social security systems and a closer follow-up of the individual, so that it can be possible to combine participation in the labour market with care. This is a comment that relates to transitional aid, which, according to the budget agreement, has a cut of 20 million. kr. How does the Council of State find it compatible to strengthen the appropriations for a group while cutting by 20 million? kr exactly in relation to that group? And is this, if any, a priority that the Council of State agrees with? One more question about information technology aids at school, where I see that the government, like for transitional and educational aid, initially did not support that kind of reduction, and then you get it after the budget conciliation. Does the Council agree with the justification given here, namely that there should be a more restrictive practice so that not as many students today receive this type of aid if they have special learning difficulties that can be linked to disability or educational and learning problems?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e903	I believe that the representative Ballo is reasonably aware of the difficult balances that have been made both in the Government and later here in the Parliament between the various parties, in order to find solutions that contribute to budget tightening, while not setting the limits that we would like to cut. In order to take into account the transition benefit and social connection first: the background for the first reduction in the transitional benefit was to sidestep people who have bid in a long-term relationship – i.e. 12 out of the last 18 months – with marriage. When one of these is applied further cut, it means that one has to look at how one can align it cut and at the same time take care of what the majority has said, simply to stimulate for further work. To it by technological means: it is an entry that has had a formidable increase in a short time and where there is a need for legislation. It is a working group that reviews both legislation and practice, and will shortly be presenting its position, ensuring a more restrictive allocation of data tools.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e912	In Norway, employees have one of the world’s best systems to secure income from disease. We think that's good. The Labour Party believes that the sickness pay scheme must be protected and not removed. In the 1990s, the Centre was flirting with employees and their organisations. I mention the participation in the May 1 celebration, at least before the referendum. Through insurance in the electoral programme, the Centerpartie promised that they would maintain the current health insurance scheme. Mr Kleppa, Minister for Social Affairs, said to Mr VG on 11 January 1998: ‘In my time of the State Council, it is entirely inappropriate to weaken the sickness pay scheme,...’» The same Minister of Social Affairs has now, through the proposal for a State budget, entered into force with a view to taking account of some of the above. 200,000 part-time workers and disabled people who combine work and social security, the right to sickness benefits from social security. Is the aid granted by the Centre to the Sickness Pay Scheme the same situation as the participation of the party in the 1st May trains in the early 1990s? And is this attack on the sick pay system that could be taken from weak groups of important and fundamental workers' rights, a pretense of the communication of living conditions to which the Council of State consistently refers? How can the Minister for Social Affairs explain his or her party's breach of commitments in this matter, when one has gone so high in terms of protecting the sickness pay system?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e924	I am pleased that the current sick pay scheme has been passed on in general, despite the government's proposed budget cuts of 9 billion kroner. When we found that this proposal for a reduced entry ticket was presented, it was after comparing today's sick pay scheme with the proposal for the conversion of the day-to-day pay scheme, which in its time was promoted by the Workers' Party, where the basis for the conversion of the scheme was that the level of participation in particular to the individual's self-sufficiency could not be claimed. It is just as Britt Hildeng says that this will affect people working part-time. The statistics reported that in 1997 the number of drug users in the EU increased by about a quarter. 22,000 persons under the entitlement to sickness benefit. Now the number of employers' days has changed in that period, so the number is likely to be slightly lower, and during the employer's period the minimum income is not applicable. It is a well-known fact that today there are women, both in the care sector and for example. in the hotel and restaurant industries, which with its fractions at times are balancing items to get a tour or shift system to go up. Let's hope that this change will also mean that some women get a higher addition fraction through this.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e931	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e934	As long as a party doesn't have a majority for its own budget, but it has to come to an agreement with other parties, it's of course that it's going to be a budget one can't say a hundred percent satisfied with. This is also the case with this year's health and social budget. It is only necessary once again to regret the fact that sufficient efforts have not been made in those areas where, in the opinion of the Party, considerable efforts need to be made. However, it is part of this budget that we are pleased that we have been implemented. The Progress Party promoted, inter alia: a document No: Eight proposals in spring that the lowest rate of the war pension for fighters should be abolished, and one should only be left with the highest. This did not get a majority when this was dealt with in the Storting, but it is with great pleasure that we note that this has now been included in the budget so that these people finally get fair treatment, based on the efforts they have made to defend their homeland. The government had included in its draft budget an age-grading of survivors' pensions. This is something the Progress Party strongly disagrees with, as these are pensions on which the people concerned have based their future. It is therefore gratifying that the members of the Socialist Party agreed with the Right and the Government Parties that this would not be implemented for 1999. On the other hand, it is regrettable that the majority of the committee did not want to stop this permanently, but only wanted to send the matter back so that it could be consulted. It is only the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party that do not want an age rating to be assessed, but we will have to take that fight later if the matter is once again promoted by the Stortinget. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, have joined a note and a proposal from the Socialist Left to consider the introduction of a reimbursement cap for private doctors in respect of benefits from popular security. This is something the Progress Party would strongly advise against, as this could lead to an increase in self-payment for patients, while at the same time it will be much more difficult to get doctors to take jobs in the districts. And it's in the districts you have long distances and poor medical coverage, which would mean that it's where you really need incentives. I have to say that such an over-management of private doctors bears out to a large extent that the majority of the committee has distrusted that the medical profession in Norway is carrying out its tasks in the manner that is desirable. This proposal may, as mentioned above, entail significant additional costs for patients in, for example: medical watch cases and large distances. If there is a desire for patients to pay more for medical services, this is the right way to do it, but at least this is not something the Progress Party wants, and I hope that neither the Socialist Left Party nor the Right wants this. But it could be the result of setting the roof as it is – even if you say that the roof should be raised. As I said, I am very surprised that the Right Party is willing to participate in such a change in today's practice. I’m afraid this could lead to a failure to achieve the desired toy coverage around the country. One of the most positive things about this budget is that in the negotiations with the Progress Party and the Right, coverage has been found to increase the special deduction for age up to the previous level. This shows that the situation of the elderly is actually taken seriously. This would not have been the case if the original arrangement of the government parties had been adopted. In conclusion, I am pleased that a unanimous committee is behind the same positive view of the telemedicine department at the Regional Hospital in Tromsø that the Progress Party has. This is a project spanning a number of fields, which will be able to open up opportunities in the future. The feedback that the Committee now gives by agreeing to the proposal of the Progress Party to explore the possibility of turning this section into a national centre for telecommunications medicine shows that the Committee is taking this issue seriously, while also earmarking 1 million over the year's budget. kr to project funds for this department so that they can start some of the very interesting projects they run.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e952	It is an overall committee that underlines the importance of popular fear in our welfare society. It is also an overall committee that still wants the population to be the cornerstone of the welfare system of the future. However, some proposals and developments in government policies are alarming, in the light of this common desire. If the public interest continues to have the central place it has had, it should continue to be a welfare policy instrument in which both economic and social security is ensured at the same time as it is a means of cushioning living conditions, it is necessary that people’s security maintains its population. And it can only be maintained by people’s confidence in popular security, confidence that it will be able to meet future needs, confidence that it is predictable, and that what the individual has expected and has been promised will be met. Across all political parties, there is an understanding that popular security should ensure basic economic security while at the same time ensuring a standard of living for future pensioners. This means that both minimum pensioners and supplementary pensioners must experience that they are getting something back for their work through a long life. Last year, the elderly were promised a dignified lift. It was the pensioners, and especially the minimum pensioners, who were to experience a standard of living increase, said the Government and government parties. But there were many minimum pensioners who experienced disappointment – not only economically but also disappointment that this Government, which proclaimed the value of the Commission and the importance of the values, has shown through its policy a double standard that was unexpected to many. For the minimum pensioner’s 1000-notes have been quickly eaten over the last year. At the time of the social security settlement, the bill of thousands was settled against the rest of the settlement. Minimum pensioners in the institution saw their 1000-notes disappear in larger self-payments, and the minimum pensioners in their own homes saw the 1000-pocket disappear in increased municipal charges, among others. as a result of the need for local authorities. But the pensioners and the elderly also got a different promise, a promise based on a settlement – an agreement, you could say – between all the parties in this room. That agreement meant that within four years, 30 billion kroner would be spent on upgrading the care for the elderly. The agreement involved the construction of nursing homes, nursing homes, the upgrading of home care and home care facilities and several thousand new workers in the care sector. This agreement has the governing parties – with the moral Christian People’s Party – the Right and the Advance Party, the friend of the elderly, said they were willing to break. Through this budgetary agreement, they are willing to postpone the reform of the elderly, willing to extend the implementation of older people by two years. This is scary when we know how precarious the need is in many places. Once again, uncertainty and uncertainty have been created as to whether there is sufficient political will to implement the older reform. There are a lot of minimum pensioners who would swap their food for thousands of dollars with the assurance that there would be enough help when you needed care and care. In the time to come, we will often have to choose between cash transfers and the increase in private consumption versus the development of health and welfare services. If we continue to want a welfare society where everyone is to be guaranteed basic security and where one has an equal and fair distribution of the goods, then it is the development of the services that must take precedence. Cash support and cash transfers can often benefit those who need it the least. The horror is evident when the government's spokesmen do not want to make any headway with regard to how the municipalities are to handle cash support and social assistance payments. Many suggest that a number of municipalities will settle social assistance against cash support. Those who really become winners are high-wages who can use the cash support to pay their aupairpike. One can talk about agreements, one can talk about morals, but the government's statements about improving the living conditions of those who are the most disadvantaged are not going to be very credible. The government's social profile also lacks credibility when the Central Party and the Minister of Social Affairs go out and assure that the sickness pay system should not be affected, in order to hit the weakest in the labour market next time. ==References== 200,000 part-time and low pay, many women and many people with disabilities, are excluded from the entitlement to sickness benefits through the Government's proposal and the compromise of the budget partners. But perhaps the most serious thing on the part of this government is the attack on the negotiating structure of the population. We have all underlined the importance of popular concern also as the cornerstone of the future of the welfare society, and in this respect emphasis has been placed on the need for pension developments to follow the general development of income. Based on such reasoning, one also has a concern that the basic amount has been sub-regulated over the years. For this reason, a joint committee has also underlined the importance of determining the basic amount following negotiations with the social security partners. The majority of the Committee — all without government parties — indicates that, in the context of the 1998 social security scheme, a total of the following was adopted: ‘The Government is asking the Government to discuss with the organisations procedures for the regulation of the basic amount of the population’s security. In particular, it is important to clarify the role of the Technical Calculation Committee and how the difference between the expected and actual development of income for economically active persons should be understood and used in the process of regulating the basic amount of the public interest.’;» This decision was therefore made by a unanimous decision. One thing is that such a meeting has not yet been held, but it is more worrying that the Government does not seem to understand the content of this Decision when, in the context of this budget, they make a budget premise that the basic amount is to be sub-regulated by 0.3 pst. – a premise that is made without any prior contact with the social security partners, a premise on which negotiations have been started. This underregulation by the Government was now properly linked to the withdrawal of a holiday, which a total increase has rejected. The basis for the Government's argument is thus gone, but there is so much uncertainty about this that I would ask the Minister of Social Affairs, before we close this debate, to comment on the question and to demand that the suspicion raised in this connection remain that this premise is still a premise for the budget. I would also like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs whether she considers it reasonable that one should pre-lock such a large part of the negotiations with parties to enter into negotiations on a free basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e985	Health Norway can look back on an active year in which important building blocks for better health care have come into place. The government has submitted and received broad support for the psychiatry escalation plan, the national cancer plan and the hospital investment plan. The plan for increased involvement of health professionals is in place. A comprehensive effort to develop better resource use through more appropriate organisation has been undertaken for hospitals. The size has given support to a much more committed regional health cooperation. A new and better management of the medical distribution seems to be gaining broad support here today. The largest overall legislative reform for the health sector of the time has been presented and will be complemented by a proposal for a new pharmacy law, presented before Christmas. The first comprehensive presentation of the rehabilitation policy was presented in the form of a global report last Friday. So many important balls are taken down. Someone's in the goal. Others are still in the game. In the future, the preparation and implementation of thedefinition reform and the value and priority issues in the healthcare sector will be an important element of the health policy agenda, as well as the practical implementation of the many plans and reforms that are subsequently adopted. Overall, they shall contribute to the overall objective of the Government: a national and solidarity health service that is rationally operated, is of good quality and is a service to the individual. Today's budget position has a broad commitment to the main priorities, as I have outlined here. I use the opportunity to thank the Committee for a good cooperation on these priorities. If we are to achieve the goal of better health care, we need to do more right things at the same time, and we need to stick to clear measures over time. Therefore, a broad set of key priorities is of invaluable importance. Not least, this is important in prevention, which has so easily been replaced by the curative. Good public health work contributes to increasing health and social resources and reducing the burden of disease in the population. In the spring, I would like to ask the Stortinget to give a broad account of public health developments in Norway. In the follow-up to the cancer plan, increased means of prevention have been put in place, focusing on three key areas of intervention: smoking, diet and exercise. These lifestyle factors are closely related to health. Tobacco causes about 30 pst. and dietary factors between 30 and 40 pst. of cancer cases. Tobacco use, dietary composition and lack of exercise are among the main risk and cause factors for cardiovascular diseases. It is therefore important to give priority to work where the focus can be combined in these three areas of action. Nutrition and physical activity in a public health perspective are areas of common interest. In order to increase the focus on physical activity, the Government will set up, over the New Year, its own specialist council to promote physical activity with a broad professional composition from the public and voluntary sectors. The Board of Directors will be established in the Administration of the Food Council of the State, which will be converted from 1999 into the Board of State for Nutrition and Physical Activity. The approach also extends the offer of mammography screening to women aged 50-69 years to a further four counties in 1999 so that a total of 13 counties will have started planning and/or operation of mammography screening during this year. The Ministry will, in its own letter to the county councils before Christmas, encourage the county councils to actively use the private X-ray institutes to use the total resources in the county in a manner that ensures the necessary quality. We will ask the county councils for feedback on how to contribute to such cooperation within a general public plan. Psychiatry is an important field of activity. Psychiatric disorders are a people's disease. About every five inhabitants experience a mild or severe mental disorder during their lifetime. It is a matter of great personal suffering for many, mainly those directly affected, but also of considerable burdens on family, friends, the working environment and the school environment. Through the mental health escalation plan, a necessary boost is taken for a patient group that has long had too poor an offer. 1999 is the first year of the plan, which will involve investment of SEK 6.3 billion and increased operational level of SEK 4.3 billion. It is true, as the representative Annelise Höegh said, that the one to be honored should be honored. The size has been an impatient driver to get this escalation plan presented. Having said that, the representative, Høegh, will probably give me the right idea that it was this government that put it forward, and that the Stortinge gave its support to the main features of the plan presented by the Government. The Ministry is now working offensively towards the municipal sector in order to implement the plan. Information conferences have been organised in all the counties of the country's rapporteurs, advisers and health and social leaders, and guidance positions have been established in the county councils. Recently, the psychiatry deficits have been re-imposed following a number of tragic acts of violence. Let me stress that killings and serious acts of violence affecting the relationship with health care are being followed up by the supervisory authorities, as well as the very tragic incident here in the city last week. This week I receive the setting from the sample that I put down in ours, which has been going through the last few years of serious mental disorders that have committed murder or gross acts of violence. The objective of supervisory work — and with this selection work more specifically — is to identify possible system failures that require correction. I will provide for the rapid processing of this sample report. One of the evil circles in psychiatry is the lack of consistency between treatment and needs at different levels. The development of lowthreshold services in the counties and the provision of services at municipal level will release capacity in the more specialised services. At the same time, we need to expand treatment capacity precisely for these groups. The escalation plan shall lead to a better supply in general, but also to the group of prisoners with mental disorders. The planned restructuring shall provide a more accurate offer to the individual, thereby improving the use of resources. According to the plan, 160 places are to be built in psychiatric hospitals for those sentenced to treatment. It's aimed at 20 of these coming next year. Let me remind you of some soberness in that part of the psychiatry debate that occurs after such tragic events that we have seen lately. There is a significant risk that this debate will help to label all those with mental health problems as more or less dangerous. This is grossly misleading and, in worst cases, harmful to those involved. The work of generalising mental disorders as something that can affect us all can have serious setbacks if we don't have this in mind. The suspension of the fixed medical device will allow the hearing bodies better time to prepare the draft consultation which is now out of date. Nevertheless, it is important to maintain progress in planning. The Government therefore intends to promote an odelstingsproposition for the Storting which will provide an overall presentation of the primary medical service and the whole of the proposal for a fixed medical scheme. It is my specific objective to provide the Stortinget with the best possible decision-making basis based on the consultation round and the interaction established with the parties concerned. The deferral shall be actively used for good planning and reinforced measures to improve medical coverage in the districts. New deadlines allow both the individual doctor and the municipalities better time to prepare themselves, and not least the possibility of increasing stability, occupying job vacancies and increasing the number of medical homes in the municipalities where necessary. This will happen, among other things: through a tight governance of the medical market from 1 January 1999, which appears to be joining here today – increasing recruitment from abroad, increasing the number of newly trained doctors in Norway and the targeted use of incentives. Budgetary adjustment implies a reduction of cap. Item 2751, heading 70, 15 million. kr with reference to a reduction in the percentage margins of pharmacies by 3/4 pst. And a raise of the coroner's supplement by 75 cents per cent. sold packing. The Ministry, as noted in the setting, has launched a dialogue with the Pharmacy Association on the detailed design of savings. If the practical conditions so warrant, adjustments may be made to the more specific margin rates, with retaining the savings effect. The Ministry will inform the Storting about which margins are chosen. The decision to raise the reimbursement rate from 45 to 50 pst, which seems to be coming today, will provide an additional incentive for increased activity in hospitals. This will provide budgetary uncertainty for 1999 to which the Ministry will return with a report on the revision of the national budget, as decided by the Stortinget during the financial management process. It is true that we already have a higher level of activity than planned in 1998. That means that we've previously reached an increased level of activity relative to what was originally foreseen. It will provide for an increased back payment for 1998, which will be disbursed in 1999, thus reducing the room for the objective of further activity growth for hospital treatment provided for in the Government's draft budget. This also shows that the new financial instruments are working towards increasing incentives for new activities so that more people can be helped. Let me conclude by saying that the hospitals are facing major reforms and changes in the framework conditions, which mean that one will now look at the forms of connection for the public hospitals, and the government will come back to the Stortinget during the spring after we have received the setting from the sample that has now been reduced to address all aspects of this important issue.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e1034	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e1037	I want to ask the Minister of Health a few questions about the dramatic situation at the Regional Hospital in Trondheim. The hospital director and a number of hospital managers and department heads at the hospital have found that they will leave their posts if the proposed budget is adopted – they cannot stand up and benefit from the savings it makes. I am aware that this week's county is going to deal with the budget, but as far as I know, it will be impossible for the county to raise the 120 million. kr missing to continue the level of activity of the year. And the Minister of Health has started an activity increase of 0.75 pst. for next year. What does the Minister of Health think is the reason why the Regional Hospital in Trondheim has come into this situation? And what will the Minister of Health do? Will the Minister for Health follow up on the majority comments of the Workers' Party and the Right and review the treatment capacity in the context of the revised national budget and return to the Stortinget with proposals for the necessary additional appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e1044	I believe that both growth and government are wise to allow county councils to carry out their budgetary procedures, which can often be turbulent – it is not just in Stortinget that the budgetary procedure is turbulent – before presenting estimates of what might come out of such budgetary proceedings. I have decided to be reluctant to comment on the budgetary treatment of individual municipalities – including the situation at the Regional Hospital in Trondheim, to which the representative Eyeågen now refers. But it is quite clear that all county councils are responsible for a proper hospital operation, as well as the county council and county council in Sør-Trøndelag. And it is the responsibility of the supervisory authorities to ensure that the prudential requirements are complied with. This will also have to be done in 1999 in relation to hospitals. I do not want to give myself any cause and effect analysis in relation to this specific hospital, but I confirm what was the result of the budgetary conciliation in connection with the financial situation, and as the Stortinget decided in this connection, namely that the Government of the revised national budget was asked to come back with an assessment of the activity development of hospitals in the light of the changes in the framework conditions that are now being adopted. That's what the government will do, and it'll give the Storting the opportunity to make a similar assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e1051	So far this year, insane people have committed eleven killings, and in addition, we have seen other serious violence done by insane people. The last killing in Oslo was committed by a person recently discharged from a psychiatric emergency department and placed in a hospital. An older couple in the ski were robbed and disgraced by a psychiatric patient, who the day before this happened was tried to enter a psychiatric ward in the ski, but refused. This development is frightening. I proposed in 1996 in the context of an interpellation debate that a commission of inquiry should be set up, which pushed out in any case where insane people were involved in acts of violence and killing. Unfortunately, that was not done. My opinion with such a commission was to try to assign responsibility to the professionals, both at county and municipality level, who had not taken the professional responsibility for these patients. Placing an outsourced psychiatric patient in the hospital without follow-up must be irresponsible. Does the Minister of Health not think that professional practitioners, both in the state of psychiatry and in the municipality of psychiatry, must also be held responsible for their actions and decisions, just as they do in the somatic field? It's too easy to blame psychiatry for lack of bed places and lack of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e1060	The sample I named this week, and which this week provides its setting, will just put the search light on the question of whether it has been system errors and errors in the specific killing and violence cases that the sample has undergone and that the professional community and services can be charged with. And if that happened, then it should be followed up. I expect that in the extension of this sample work, I will also have the opportunity to assess whether we will have a separate survey commission, or whether it will continue to be the primary responsibility of the supervisory authorities in this area as regards the follow-up to safety – or whether a combination of these solutions should be envisaged. What is in any case to say about the specific case is that I immediately realized that the matter could affect the healthcare system, asked the Health Authority and the county doctor to examine the health service's position on the matter in more detail. I also agree that health professionals, regardless of which part of the health service they work, should be responsible. I have submitted to Stortinget a health professionals law that is quite general. So it applies to all health professionals, both in the psychiatry, in the somatic field and in other parts of the service, and it emphasizes precisely these aspects and has a system for monitoring this responsibility when regrettable errors occur.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e1067	I agree with the Minister of Health that there is also a lot of positive things going on in the health service. That there are many balls in the air, and that some of them are set to target, is not least the result of a broad political cooperation here in the United Kingdom. But there's a lot left. Long-term health cows are an obvious indication of capacity problems in health services, and reducing queues requires better organisation and increased resources, as the Minister of Health has also pointed out. But we also need to make better use of the resources we already have in health care, both personnel and equipment, in a better way. In many hospitals, expensive hospital equipment is not in use except for normal working hours, which means that equipment is unused 16 hours a day. There is a constant look-up in the newspapers, most recently from Haukeland Hospital before the weekend, that personnel, especially doctors, will work more, but they are not allowed to. By facilitating better use of hospital equipment and facilities, several patients can be treated. And there's a lot to pick up by making better use of both equipment and professional resources. Therefore, during the budgetary procedure last year, the majority of the Stortinget also asked the Government to make better use of the hospital’s premises and equipment. The government was asked to explain how standard regulations and agreements can be drawn up for public health professionals so that they can use their working capacity and hospitals’ premises for private or public operations. This is exactly one year ago. Nothing has happened, and health cows are increasing. This is a new tool in an attempt to make better use of the capacity, and I would like to ask the Minister of Health how far the Ministry has come to work on this, and when the Stortinget can expect a response from the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e1076	As I mentioned in my main post, in my opinion, it is very important to focus on better organisation of healthcare for a better use of resources. And it does this government through a close interaction with the county municipalities, linked to the Organisational Development Forum, where it focuses on a number of areas where we believe it is a potential for better use of resources. It has to do with the question of the proper use of professional personnel, which is scarce, so that they are not used to such an extent for purely commercial tasks. Here's a positive development going on. It's about organizing the business more around the patient's needs. I also agree with the representative Sjøli on the question of how the equipment is used, in the hospital's own direction or in an interaction between the hospital itself and doctors who work on their leisure time, either under the control of the hospital or on a private basis. The Ministry has worked on these issues on the basis of the initiatives referred to by the representative Sjøli, and we aim to revise the current circular in this area – which is from 1989, as far as I remember – in the new year, so that the necessary clarifications of the framework conditions in this area are brought to the attention of hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e1083	In its speech, the Council of State stressed the postponement of the permanent reform and the possibility of better preparation for the implementation of the reform. It is now seen that the average age of primary doctors in municipalities is increasing as the years go by. A study by the Medical Association shows that the average age of general practitioners in Norway has been three years on average over the last three years, so that there has been virtually no new recruitment to general practice at all. When you get a budgetary settlement that decides to postpone the reform, you would initially believe, in line with what the Minister of Health here says, that it was important to take action that could do something in relation to the lack of recruitment to the municipalities. The production of the lack of recruitment today gives the impression, at least as presented by two of the parties in this Chamber, that it is the determination reform as such that causes the problems. But we haven't implemented it yet. My question to the Minister of Health is: wouldn't it make sense to start experimentation precisely in the municipalities that are now struggling with the biggest recruitment problems, to see, if possible, how to create tools and effective measures to improve the medical distribution of primary municipalities? I would like to hear whether the Minister of Health agrees with the majority of the population, who disagree with the SV and the Workers' Party's proposal that such experimental activities should be started, and also hear the Minister of Health's reasons for doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e1090	Let me first point out that the Government is prepared to implement the system as outlined in the comprehensive decision taken last year by the Stortinget on this very matter. The postponement we have now received will be used actively, in order not to unnecessarily extend the uncertainty surrounding the scheme. We are going to keep pressure on the clarification processes around the framework conditions, but we are going to spend more time preparing for implementation in the municipalities and, not least, putting in incentives, as the budgetary agreement, as is well known, has brought more money. We have had trials on the fixed medical device itself in Norway, which is the basis for the reform. And we've had it in different types of municipalities. So I do not see the need for further testing in the case of the fixed medical system itself, but I see clearly the need for attempts to stimulate better medical coverage – vigilance, which is less burdensome, measures that can make it less demanding to be alone a doctor in individual municipalities, for example. related to opportunities for continuing training, temporary work schemes, etc. These are examples from the lack of action undertaken in the context of incentive schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e1098	I agree with the Minister of Health's announced commitment to preventive health work and the means he advertised. With regard to the credit for the strong interest of the authorities in the psychiatry area, I believe that it may need to be shared between more and not a relationship between the Minister of Health and the representative Annelise Höegh. I would like to remind you that it was the government of Jagland that presented St.meld. No 25 for 1996-97 on psychiatry. This message was received very well in the professional community and in the municipalities and county municipalities. It is also the basis of the action plan that Stortinget later requested and to which Stortinget gave its full support. This has been a pretty big and common promise. I want to underline it. What may have worried me a little bit was that the Health Minister's party trap, Are Næss, was that the health budget was the best of the times – something in the street. I am genuinely concerned that the hospital economy is not strengthened by the Government's proposals. I then pointed out that of the Government's proposal to increase the appropriations for the effort-driven financing by 300 million. NOK 175 million. kr already intended to be used up in 1998. As this is linked to the weak local economy structure, I fear that it will be difficult to carry out the increase in activity envisaged by the Government. I would like to ask the Minister for Health: is it such that a future commitment to increased patient treatment, as promised in the Adult Declaration, will be financed by further increase in the proportion of the excess, which is the basis for this year's commitment, or does the Minister of Health have other cards in his pocket during 1999?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e1115	I have said it in other assemblies, and I would like to repeat it in this room: As for what has happened in the field of psychiatry, I am standing on the shoulders of several of my predecessors. The assumption that we have come to a unanimous agreement to such a comprehensive reform is laid down by several, and not least thanks to a broad commitment and active involvement in this Chamber. But I'm very happy to be part of that venture. Then the representative referred Kristoffersen to the representative Næss' statement about the greatest health effort of the time. The representative Naess correctly referred to the comprehensive action plans adopted in spring, which are long-term and require follow-up years, not only in 1999. But we start in 1999, as we're supposed to. It is true, as I was also in my post, that part of the activity growth that we had initially foreseen would come in 1999 for hospitals is already this year. That means we're going into 1999 with a higher level of activity for hospitals than what we initially thought. That's positive. But that means that part of the growth that the government originally set up in the budget has already arrived and must therefore be financed by part of the 300 million. kr in increased hospital funding provided by the State budget. I have no plans to increase the proportion in 1999 beyond what is adopted by the Stortinge today, and I have noticed the signals in the vote, including in the form of proposals, on a review of the evolution of the excesses, and will of course follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e1126	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e1129	St. Report. No 50 for 1996-97 — the so-called ‘ageing’ report — was presented in the spring of 1997. At that time I was not a big-time representative, so I followed the debate through the media. The impression we got from the debate that we were sitting outside of the Storting was that the opposition at that time would increase the financial effort and do things faster than this very thorough big message provided. As I understand it, this was the reason why the decision was later called the “parent agreement”. In view of this, it seems almost incredible that the same parties decide to postpone the implementation of the ageing effort by two years through the year’s budgetary settlement. For the many who are still waiting in a hospital or nursing home, it must be a great disappointment. Also for the municipalities that have their plans ready, it must be a setback. For the Workers' Party, the implementation of this initiative remains the prime concern of our older people. I have registered that the Government and the cooperating parties, among others. justifies the suspension with a high level of activity in the labour market. I do not think that is compatible with the signs of increasing unemployment and poor order access in the construction sector. There are few bets that are so well distributed across the country, and thus also seem to have such a positive impact on local business activities in the various locations. These conditions should also be strong grounds for implementing the plan, as agreed in 1997. I would also like to add that it must be in everyone's interest that the money allocated to the elderly be used to improve the situation of the elderly and nothing else. No one has earned us a repetition of the discussion that occurred after the so-called older billion. Work on the year’s budgeting has given us many input from different organisations and user groups. Most people have raised the issue of excesses. The term ‘tax on disease’ is increasingly used by those who have to use goods and services that are self-contained in order to function on a daily basis. I understand these arguments, and I see clearly that there is a need for a comprehensive review of the functioning of the system of trade marks. The problem is that the different types of excesses are seen in isolation. This means that those who need a lot of medicine, treatment and help are charged a very large self-payment, which often has to be paid by a small income. I am not opposed to the system of partiality, but it must not be such that those with the greatest relief needs and the smallest income should contribute the largest share of their income to the community. On the part of the Workers' Party, we believe that there is a need for a review of the economic functioning of the total expenditure on the part of the health and care sector for those users who need goods and services that are self-contained. We believe that such a review is necessary before any new increases in the proportion of the balances or arrangements are made. We also believe that there is a need to introduce safeguards that take into account the total costs of ownership of income and services. I register that the Workers' Party's proposal for such a comprehensive review of the functioning of the system of ownership will not have a majority in Stortinget. Let me also mention the situation of the host municipalities of the former HVPU institutions that do not now seem to have the price adjustment of the grant they receive from the state. These host municipalities have in common a very large number of those who previously lived in the institution became residents of the host municipality after the institution was closed. This implies that these municipalities have had to build up a significantly larger service equipment than the population suggests. The size introduced the so-called host municipality grant because the specific situation of these municipalities is not taken into account by the general income system of the municipalities. It was also important that these municipalities were given a greater degree of predictability for their economy when they were going to take on this great and important job that the government entrusted to them. It goes without saying that the host municipalities have to use this grant almost indebtedly to mannify the service apparatus in order to carry out this great task. With this year's paycheck, this means that the 33 municipalities concerned must cut approximately. Forty million. kr in their budgets if the grant is not price adjusted. This comes at the top of the narrowing of all municipalities due to the budgetary agreement and the adopted government budget. These municipalities say that this forced the closing of the host municipality grant will have to have consequences for the service provision in the municipalities. With the large number of disabled people living in these municipalities, they are extra vulnerable to such unforeseen cuts. I have to remember again that the host municipality grant was introduced in order to get these municipalities to level with other municipalities. Therefore, it is wrong to grant other grants to all municipalities, e.g.: the earmarked funds relating to Chapter 6A of the Social Services Act are mixed into the discussion on the price adjustment of the host municipality grant. After the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party and the Right came about, we have, among other things, heard from these parties that this is a good budget for the municipalities and their inhabitants. Municipalities, for their part, report on the main budgetary problems for many years. Yes, some municipalities claim that they will soon have to start cutting in relation to statutory tasks. I assume that many such contacts have been made by the government parties, not least by the'sine' rapporteurs around the country. This development is poorly consistent with the Adultås Declaration, where, among other things, is : ‘A central government will remedy the long-standing imbalance between the tasks assigned to it and the financial conditions imposed on it.’ So what is the result of the situation in which the municipalities now stand? Well, the municipalities have to increase the fees, they have to increase the child care payment, they have to increase the self-payment, etc., and they have to make it the maximum they can do to their citizens. And then my question is, isn't this a tax increase for the inhabitants? Is this not really a tax increase in this budget? There is no doubt that those with the lowest incomes and with the greatest relief needs are most affected in this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e1168	Security for a good health service when we need it is the very foundation of the welfare community. But this base has huge cracks, which many have also been in today. Per. On 1 August, more than 300,000 people were in treatment queues, almost 35 000 guarantee patients are waiting for treatment, 12 500 and 9 650 are in breach of the three-month guarantee — in other words, serious sick people. This makes a health care system visible that does not provide security of treatment when we need it. The situation is precarious in many hospitals. There is an experience of scarcity of financial resources and personnel, and poor organisation and management have been made visible. But there's also a lot of positive happening in the health care system. Professionally, our healthcare is among the best. More than ever, healthcare professionals are doing the best they can within a heavy-duty and inefficient system. The problems in the health care system cannot be solved by money alone. There is a need for far-reaching reforms in several areas. People are tired of arguing about who's responsible. People are tired of the disclaimer and the blackmail between the levels of government. Local democracy is misunderstood when the fragmentation of responsibilities and the powdering of responsibilities in health services lead to chaotic conditions and unworthy conditions. Restricted means will always be a scarcity factor. We can't afford to get out of the problems in Health-Norway, but we can organize the healthcare system so that we get more out of the resources. For years, the right has been driving the development of new instruments, such as input-driven funding, free hospital choice, waiting time guarantees and patient rights. In very many cases, the Right has managed to draw the Government and the Workers' Party in the right direction. But it goes slowly, I wish the government could hurry a little less slowly. Of course, it's not easy with the Center Party as a brake block. For the Christian People's Party stood with the Right on several things before they came into government, which they have now gone away from because the Center Party is against. These are proposals that could have contributed in a positive direction. Some of the new instruments implemented need to be further developed if they are to be fully effective. A natural consequence of these changes is that hospitals organise themselves differently from before. The next natural step is to open the health market to several actors. When policy priorities in the health sector, functional distribution between hospitals, quality control systems for services and public funding are in place, it is less important who owns and operates hospitals. Private operators must be allowed to do so as regards the expansion and operation of hospitals. Competition to provide cost-effective, high-quality public health services will serve both patients and society. Hospitals need greater freedom to be managed in a professional way. We have to be more concerned with releasing the public hospitals than with limiting the private ones. If we don't implement system changes in the healthcare system, I'm afraid the result will be a two-fold division of the healthcare system, where those who can afford to pay for private health care do so, either in Norway or abroad. There is a danger of the public offer and the general principles of health policy, because the public does not do the competition. Because it is no longer a question of whether we want competition and more private actors in health care. The competition's there. The system conservatism to which some people are aggravating threatens well-being. Competition provides more well-being, because we get better use of resources. We get freed resources to create even more well-being and provide even more treatment. Time works for Right-wing solutions, as it has done in terms of input-based funding, free hospital choice, patient rights and treatment guarantees. Akershus County has now decided, on the initiative of the Right, to examine the possibilities for private expansion of new Follo Hospital and renting out to the County Municipality. This will increase the capacity and supply of the population in Akershus faster. The right is satisfied that medical training at the Central Hospital in Akershus is now being re-established and that the Government is already investigating the budgetary implications in the context of the 2000 budget. The need for more doctors in this region is increasing due to large population growth and a strong increase in the number of older people. Dignity, quality of life and independence in old age and the best possible quality of care for the elderly are one of the most important objectives of the Right. Competition and private development and the operation of care services are an important tool. Combined with public responsibility through funding and free user choice, older and disabled people will have a greater influence on who will provide the services and on quality. There will be a variety of services tailored to individual needs. Of course, the most important thing is not that old age care is exposed to private competition, as the representative Ballo later believes, but that older people get the best possible offer when they need it. It will release funds for better and more services, which will preserve independence and dignity and give greater freedom of choice and participation. Some claim that competition in the health and social sectors is immoral. Of course it isn't. But it's immoral and unethical not to make the best use of society's resources for the benefit of those who need it the most. Public dental services, especially in the districts, have significant and serious recruitment and stability problems. In addition to the investigation into dental training in Tromsø, immediate action is urgently needed. The county councils should be encouraged to employ several dental practitioners in the public dentistry. We believe flexible solutions that can help increase recruitment and create greater stability in the field of dentistry in the districts need to do so. A good health policy is important, but a good health policy is not least important. There is a great deal of interest in value debate among most people, and it should have an impact on the health-promoting, preventive and rehabilitating perspectives on how to develop society. It's a main goal to have as few patients as possible. It involves the use of policy instruments that strengthen personal responsibility and strengthen the areas for which the community is to be responsible. In 1977, American social scientist Wildavsky launched the so-called 10-90 rule that healthcare only determines 10 pst. the health of the population, while the rest, i.e. 90 p.t., is determined by non-health conditions such as social conditions, living conditions and lifestyle. Therefore, we need to use policy instruments to balance quality of life, health, disease and early death, as well as instruments that strengthen personal responsibility and responsibility. I am therefore pleased and look forward to the Minister of Health's announced statement on public health for spring. Breast cancer is the most common form of cancer in women and the main cause of loss of life. 750 women die every year from this cancer. The expansion of mammography screening is an important prevention measure to detect early cancer, so that more women survive. The right is very pleased to have reached a majority for increased appropriations for this area, so that it can be extended to include two more counties. Work to prevent unwanted pregnancies also needs to be intensified, both at health centres and at schools, so that it reaches young people. The right will now continue to establish a national medical history museum in the premises of the Rikshospitalet. And this is not going to be a dead museum with the storage of dead things, it's going to be a living museum that's just to be used for public information and to strengthen the understanding of prevention and health promotion. An important task for the public is to provide a social and economic safety network for those who, for various reasons, fall outside and need help. But it must be equally important for the public to prevent people from becoming clients of the welfare community. Tax policy plays a major role in the distribution and welfare policy. The right will allow more people to support themselves on their own income. The purpose of the transitional benefit for parents who have sole responsibility for young children is to ensure income and, at the same time, to provide help for self-help so that they can support themselves in their own work after a transitional period. Whereas provision must be made for several lone carers to undertake the necessary training and gainful work of self-sufficiency as a final objective; A closer follow-up of the individual will increase the possibility of combining participation in the labour market with care. Today, a large number of young children’s parents take up education, and most finance the education through loans in the State Loan Fund. It may therefore appear unfair and arbitrary that, during all or part of the training, civil status should have an effect on whether or not the individual is to repay the loan for a long period after completion of the training. Therefore, the right considers that the training aid for solitude should be phased out. The right is pleased to have gained a number of important health and social policy issues in this budget – actions that will contribute to more supply to those who need it the most, measures that show that the right in the priority is the most important.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e1219	The working party will emphasise that everyone should have a good and equivalent offer of treatment and care services, regardless of the size of the wallet or where in the country of residence. Effectiveness and equivalence are best ensured through a public health system. It is necessary to develop better cooperation and functional distribution in health regions and to improve the organisation of hospitals. The Labour Party believes that the postponement of the older reform is a concern. In the spring of 1997, on a proposal from the Workers' Party, ‘elders' agreements’ were concluded with the opening up of all parties. The Bondevik government, together with its supporters from the Right and the Advance Party, is now running away from the promises and postponing implementation for two years. Other weak groups also fail. Those who earn less than 57,600 dollars will not get sick money from the population if they get sick from next year. Have you thought about what that means for the individual? And this is suggested by a social minister who has said many, many times that she will do something specifically for the weakest groups. The survivor’s pension has not been honoured following the intentions in the treatment of the welfare message, where a majority of the Workers’ Party and the Right said that the survivor’s pension should be designed to motivate self-sufficiency, but that it should be a form of age upgrading. Therefore, the proposed law amendment has been passed back to the Government. Lone carers have social welfare schemes to enable them to provide self-sufficiency. The follow-up system with a person who is himself a lone dependant who has operated as of 1 January of this year. This plan needs to be evaluated in terms of both its results and its economic aspects. Many single caregivers need training in order to be able to provide self-care. If they become co-residents while in a training course, they will lose the education support according to the new rules. This is what we in the Labour Party believe is unfortunate, and our proposal is that they should keep this support until the education process is completed. The majority has decided that psychiatry should be given a lift. This time St.meld. No 25 for 1996-97, Transparency and wholeness — On mental illness and the provision of services, there was a cross-political consensus that more attention should be paid to this neglected group, and the Stortinget adopted an economically binding escalation plan in this treatment. Valgerd Replystad Haugland was very critical of the government in the debate. Now the Christian People's Party has come into position and is very careful with the budget for next year. Clearly, more people now realize that many of the challenges we face in the field of psychiatry require time to build up and not least the ability to provide enough staff. We were therefore surprised when the health minister on TV last night said that after 15 years of neglect he had now got Stortinget to build strong offices. When the Court closed down, it was decided to build up strong offices in each state, but one can raise the issue of disagreement in the trade unions, which has led to the creation of too few places. I would like to ask the Minister of Health if it is such that all available places are used, and if completed treated patients are being discharged. It also requires resources, patience and courage to take political burdens to develop cooperation between treatment levels and the institutions to help people with mental disorders get caught up and get early help and good rehabilitation. The budgetary agreement between the Government, the Right and the Advance Party resulted in a reduction of 100 million. kr for the Labour Market Act. The Minister for Health has assured us that the effort to provide work for people with mental illness should be taken care of. We're going to have to hope that that's right, because they're putting very little on the labour market. Labour market enterprises and ASVO may be potential jobs for some, but training of support staff and labour management is required. And we know little about how current legislation works towards this group.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14.ana.ud767e1245	The agreed time for the morning meeting is immediately over, and the President proposes that the meeting be now suspended. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 5:00.
