ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e102	The representative, Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e105	I would like to make a suggestion that the Storting asks the Government to grant permission to produce and re-distill spirits to others other than Arcus.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e110	Representative Ellen Gjerpe Hansen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e113	On behalf of Sverre Hoddevik, Petter Løvik and myself, I would like to propose that the Stortinget ask the Government to draw up proposals for the competitive outsourcing of the national road haulage network.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e118	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e121	On behalf of the representative Jan Simonsen and myself, I would like to make proposals to convert the contingent amnesty of aliens affected by the so-called Quetta and Laos projects.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e126	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will inform the Council that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has today requested the Stortinget to give a statement on the Schengen cooperation, the negotiations with the EU and the main content of the draft agreement. In accordance with Section 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency has agreed to make such a statement at the end of the Storting meeting today. Following the presentation, it is proposed that one representative from each batch group be given the word once for up to 5 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, even though this may not be the right place, the president will inform the group leaders that the group leader meeting to which it is called is being postponed after the Stortinges meeting is over today. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that this morning's meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the scheduled time, at 0 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. The President does not expect there to be any danger that the Storting meeting will be very long, so the decision that it can continue beyond 1 p.m. 15, it'll hardly be effective. On the contrary, the President believes that the Storting meeting will be relatively short today – only for the information of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e146	The Municipal Committee issued its Innst. S. No 18 for 1998-99 on the activities of the Sameting in 1997, cf. St.meld. No 52 for 1997-98, 3 November. The fact that we do not have the debate before today, the Great Britain's last working day in 1998, is due to the simple fact that the vote should also be held in Sami. The store's press release handed out its tolerance price on Tuesday this week. When jury leader Hilde Harbo explained the arguments of the Press Release and the jury for the award, she was busy with just language. She told me that this year's prize winner was a man who had to move home from seven years old to start school. During his first two years of school, he understood nothing about teaching because the teacher spoke a foreign language. At the boarding school where he lived, the staff did not understand his mother tongue. This year's winner of the Press Release's Tolerance Prize was Professor Ole Henrik Magga, former President of Sametinget. In his explanatory statement, the jury leader said among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. «With its diplomatic abilities, prudence and flexibility, but at the same time with firmness, pride and great authority, Magga has made an invaluable national effort. Not just for those who have a safer identity and self-confidence. A scourge of Norwegian society has been eliminated at the same time, although we know that there is still disagreement and unresolved issues before we have reached the goal of full recognition and equality between the two peoples on which this nation is based.’ The charters for the price being distributed, to which former prime minister Jo Benkow has given the basic capital, state that the price is to be allocated to persons who, through their function, have sought to contribute to greater tolerance and understanding between people and societies with different opinions, races and beliefs. "Ole Henrik Magga fully meets these conditions," said the jury leader Hilde Harbo. It is my hope that the future debate on co-political issues can be brought into line with the spirit of the Tolerance Prize, both from a national, Norwegian and Sami point of view. As Magga said in his speech of thanks, freedom of speech is the strongest weapon of a minority. This freedom and this weapon must be safeguarded, while at the same time contributing to respect for the positions of opponents of opinion and thereby demonstrating the ability and will of tolerance. The majority of the Committee notes, in the context of the examination of the 1997 Annual Communication, that it is positive that the annual report not only reports from the past year but also addresses future challenges and tasks. The majority, which consists of all except the Advance Party, note that the Sameting will assert the right to self-determination. The majority express agreement with the Government in its definition that this right will consist in the fact that, within the national frameworks, it will be possible to steer the development of the Sami society as far as possible. The question of self-determination over land, which has been dealt with in the suspension of the Joint Committee, will be considered after the current hearing. The majority say that it is important that there is close cooperation between the Government and the Federation. The majority of the Committee also points to the fact that the Government has set up its own Sámi State Secretary Committee and has its own State Secretary for Sámi issues to coordinate the common policies within each department. I would also like to refer to the communication sent out by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs on 16 December, where it is announced that a new department will be set up in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs on 1 January 1999. The department is then given the overall responsibility for designing and coordinating its policies in relation to the Sami population, in relation to national minorities and in relation to refugees and immigrants. The main objectives of the establishment of the new department are, first of all, the desire to strengthen the co-political work of the ministries. This will be done by adding more resources to this work, including: in the form of a common language competence. Secondly, the new department will coordinate and develop policies in relation to national minorities, i.e.: groups with a long relationship with Norway, such as women, forest fins, the Roma, Gypsy and Jews. This is in line with the recent consent of the Stortinge to ratify the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities. Thirdly, there is a desire to make better use of the overall resources of the co-operation policy department and the immigration department, by coordinating overlapping tasks in the two departments. I see this as a follow-up to the challenge that Sameness has given to central powers of government, in terms of the development of co-political work. The majority have also noted that the Government is committed to strong cooperation with the Federation in the budgetary process. The majority of the Committee has found it appropriate to point out that in some constituencies the number of persons entitled to vote is so low that the issue of legitimacy can be raised, and agrees with the Sameting and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs that there is reason to consider the electoral rules prior to the next merger elections. The government has also provided information on how the State will follow up the consequences of the Aursund judgment in its Annual Report, as the majority have noted. The majority are also concerned with the place of women in the reindeer industry and indicate that the necessary equality in some areas has not been achieved. The majority therefore welcome the fact that the partners in the reindeer management agreement want to make the value creation of women visible by granting an additional grant of NOK 22 500 to holdings, where both spouses are actively involved in the reindeer management. The Progress Party, which forms the minority in the Committee, regards the Annual Report as an informative document and an information channel between the Sameting and the central authorities, but also demonstrates to its principle position that the Sameting should be closed. The members of the Progress Party take note of the Government’s feedback to the Stortingen regarding the content of the Annual Report of the Sameting in St.meld. No 52 for 1997-98 on the activities of the Joint Undertaking in 1997. These members call for a clearer view from the Government on how the Government interprets the Sámi requirements for self-determination and requirements for the right to land and water in Sámi areas. As I have said before, the majority of the Committee says that these questions must be brought back once the consultation round on the suspension of the Joint Committee, which is currently under way, has been completed. Finally, an overall committee refers to the message and argues the Stortinget to St.meld. No The Protocol shall be annexed to this Agreement for 1997-98 on the activities of the Joint Undertaking.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e189	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1443]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e205	No one has asked for the word [[Fotation, see page 1443]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e221	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1443]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e237	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1444]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e253	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1444]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e269	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1444]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e285	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1444]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e301	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1444]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e315	Pretty short of the message that has been produced. This is, to a large extent, a message that takes account of what has happened in 1997, and there is no comment on it. We take note of the information and agree that this is a good message. What is said about the structure of the banking and financial industries is, in fact, the only thing the Committee has to comment on. To that it is just to say that there is also a large deal about the structure of banking and financial industries. We point out that the concentration of power that has occurred over time does not prevent stronger competition in the Norwegian market. What has always been the basis for the structure is that there should be soundness and competition, and it seems that one is taking care of the situation now. The majority in the Committee have also said that this is the way it should go. The main objective of structural policy is to ensure that Norway has well-functioning and sound financial institutions and that there is a high level of competition between institutions. Of course, the objective of a good supply of financial services in all regions still needs to be established. It has been a small discussion with regard to the financial environment outside Oslo. All, except for the Socialist Left Party, are agreed that it is important to keep up with a scattered activity and competence and thus take care of and develop a good financial environment outside Oslo as well. Thus, the environment that exists needs to be developed in line with the structure – soundness and competition. The Committee's plurality has not pointed to any particular place that is more important than others, for here it is an industry which is to develop freely in relation to the competition in this market. And it's equally important both in Oslo, in Bergen and in Trondheim that these environments develop.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e330	The matter, on which the rapporteur was concerned, is also referred to the structural policy of the financial industry. I see this in line with the rapporteur of the matter so that the current guidelines are confirmed. For this reason, I allow myself to ask a question on the basis of a newspaper announcement today that the Ministry of Finance has recently granted access to the concession of a company in the field of export finance to purchase another company working in the financing of credit to municipalities, but on the condition that no exemption from the rule of maximum 10 p.m. ownership can be granted. Such derogation has been granted in the past. The institution in question already has an exemption, for example: the State-owned bank The Norwegian Bank owns approx. 30 pst. in the company. I can also mention examples that exemptions have been granted in the past, including: the purchase by savings banks of an insurance company, which meant that they would share the ownership of four of the coastal banks, those who later joined the SpareBank 1 Group. There was also a derogation at that time. My question is whether this newspaper message is crazy. In case it should be crazy, I'd like to receive information about what's right. If it is right, I ask the question whether this implies a new policy on the part of the Government, namely that no exemptions should be granted whatsoever from the 10 pst ownership restriction rule.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e339	It is true that we in the Ministry of Finance have for a long time had an application from Export Finance to acquire municipal credit. That case has otherwise been dealt with in the Ministry of Finance earlier, and was decided by the previous government with negative results at the time. We have now gone very thoroughly through the legislation and the possibilities to allow export finance to take over municipal credit, and have come to the conclusion that the legislation does not open up an exemption from the 10 pst. rule. However, access to export finance has now been granted to local government credit, but a few assumptions have been made, including: a premise that during a two-year period they will adapt to the 10 pst rule, i.e. that four of them – as far as I remember – twelve who are today the owners of export finance have to sell down to 10 pst. It is true, as Per-Kristian Foss mentions, that the largest owner has a holding of up to 30 p.m., 29 and something, and there are also three other owners who have ownership positions of between 20 and 30 p.m., and for these they will be required to make sure to sell down to 10 p.m. during a liberal period in our opinion. Then there are eight other owners who have relatively small holdings, which I assume must be able to contribute to the purchase of some of the shares that remain with the four largest owners. I expect that this will be an acceptable condition for export finance so that this is now going to work out, and you get this new institution. It is also true, of course, that Per-Kristian Foss points out, that export finance today has a derogation, but it is on the basis of the business that export finance operated when they received the exemption and so far still operates. I will not hide the fact that the Credit Authority has allowed itself to question whether export finance, with the extended activity they have assumed after receiving a derogation, still meets the condition for exemption. But it hasn't been the theme this time. We therefore assume that they will do so if they only operate the business they have before they may take over municipal credit, but in the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, it is quite obvious that when local government credit also comes in and gives a new activity within export finance, it is no longer possible to dispensate. But we've given a very liberal deadline for them to adapt to the 10 pst. rule.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e346	I hear what the Minister of Finance says, but I did not understand in the answer he now gave, some clear and concrete reason why the department does not grant a derogation from the 10 pst. rule. What I noticed was that he said, after a thorough review, there was no basis for an exemption. But then my question becomes to the Minister of Finance: What are the specific circumstances of the department that make it impossible to find room for an exemption from the 10 pst rule? I would like to have a very clear and clear answer to that, because, in the opinion of the Advancement Party, it is very little that argues against such a derogation being granted in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e351	I thank the Minister for the answer. The Minister of Finance, after I had drawn up the following statement: ‘I expect this to be acceptable conditions.’ This can't be done by the Minister of Finance, because only the exchange of letters with Export Finance suggests that they cannot accept such a condition. The owners can't do that either, they've given a fairly clear statement. Export finance is simply owned by banks in Norway according to their size. With this government's policy, there have not been any more banks, so there are not enough banks in this country to own export finance on condition of the ten pst. rule. That will require too much of some and too little of others. The ratio is that the largest bank owns the largest share, the second largest owns the second largest share, and the smallest banks have shares of less than 10 pst, i.e. relative to the size of the banks, and I actually think that has given quite a reasonable result. What's interesting here is that after this merger, export finance should have entered the credit market for municipalities. What kind of market is that? Well, it's a market where the state itself is the most dominant player, and it's a market where the state itself owns and has granted a derogation from the 10 pst rule, because the state owns 100 pst. Here we feel that the same government is out to protect itself and its business because others come in and compete. This must be contrary to all competitive thinking, including in the field of the financial sector. To be quite precise, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance this question: is it really that a concession clause in this context is that the new bank, the merger Export Finance – Municipal Credit – if it had become any of it – is not allowed to apply for a derogation, as the law provides for access to? I have to say that I think it's a relatively strange concession to take in. I also have to say that I find it difficult to see any good reason why you cannot get a derogation here, among other things. having regard to the fact that others in the area of local government credit have a derogation from the restriction rule and that this will obviously increase competition in granting loans to municipalities, And it's an area that truly needs more competition than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e367	To begin with, Per-Kristian Foss concluded: I agree that there would be greater competition for lending to municipalities. This would probably lead to a more reasonable loan for municipalities, and the money would extend further. That is also why, as Minister of Finance, I have gone as far as I think is possible from the law we are going to administer, once I have now accepted that export finance can take over municipal credit. As I said in my previous post, today there are four large and eight small owners of export finance – that is, twelve owners. Even if you were not to take in new owners – I do not say that there should be any prohibition – but stay within the twelve, it is enough that you can distribute the shares so much that no one exceeds the 10 pst. rule. I don't want to interfere in how this is to be done, it's going to be up to the parties involved, but the possibility is there. So to Siv Jensen's question about why you have found that you have to demand that you relate to the 10 pst. rule. The very reason for this is that we do not find that the activity that the new institution is now going to do is so special that it allows for a derogation. The activities shall include, inter alia: include the granting of credit to municipalities, as the Municipal Bank today does to a large extent. Besides, it's not just the Municipal Bank that provides loans to municipalities, there are also many other banks that do, so there's nothing special about lending to municipalities. Such activities will not be eligible under the two requirements, inter alia: on specific cases referred to in the Act, where there is a possibility of exemption from the 10 pst rule. This is the simple reason why one has found it necessary to demand that one adapt over time to the applicable law. If the new bank had been granted a derogation with the activity of the new bank, it would have provided a good basis for criticism here in Stortinget – in the legislative assembly, which has given laws that, in the opinion of the best experts in the Ministry of Finance, do not allow exemption of the 10 p.m. rule.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e376	Per-Christian Foss has had the word twice, and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e379	I just want to say in the end that I want to advise the Minister of Finance to seek the view of the Grand Duchy on the ten pst rule, because this is about the interpretation of a rule that there has been political disagreement about also in the past, then perhaps in other directions. But it shows that the law gives good room for interpretation, and the strict interpretation that the department now uses, I have to say that I disagree. Interestingly, the local bank has a derogation, and if there is no access for export finance and local credit to obtain a derogation, the logical consequence is that the local bank cannot receive a derogation either. I expect that the state will soon sell itself into 10 pst. in the municipal bank as soon as it is converted into a limited liability company, and seek to find private owners or other owners of the remaining 90 pst. That is a logical consequence of the Minister of Finance's presentation. It might seem a little bit funny, but I think it shows that the assessments are going in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e386	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 10 and 11 are treated as a whole. [[Fotation, see page 1444]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e412	I have a few comments on case no. 11th@item: inlistbox There is little to add in relation to this option, as it is largely a collective committee behind the Government's proposals. When I still ask for the word, it is to correct the setting. An incubation has proposed changing some of the lower taxes in the recent ageing of the State budget, including population benefits for 1998. There is no basis for modifying these fees, and therefore the following suggestions for decisions in the resolution should be deleted: cap. 5527 Item 73 The monopoly charge, etc., chap. 5545 item 71 Environmental taxes, pesticides, cap. 5571 Item 70 Totaliser charge and cap. 5577 item 70 Fee to the State of the placing on the market of pharmacies. Overall, this means that revenue from the State budget will be reduced by 24.5 million. kr. Attenuation from Staten kerosene fund under cap. 5800 must therefore be increased accordingly. The new proposal for a promise decision will then be: ‘Chap. 5800 State Petroleum Fund [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2800):]] With these changes I will recommend your setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e454	The President will take these corrections into account during the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e457	I find no reason to make any special comments on case no. 10, it is, in so far as it exists. This also applies mainly to case No. 11, so it should not be the basis for any major debate here either. I just point out that the Workers' Party in its comments under case No. 11 indicates the need to adopt an economic policy that has a long-term perspective and can thus also create stability. There has been considerable concern about Norwegian monetary policy recently, a monetary policy which has, in fact, been backed by a broad majority in the UK. During the last few days, the majority of the Grand Duchy has also expressed its clear support for the monetary policy pursued. It is with some wonder that we have followed the press discussion between the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Central Bank over the last few days on how to understand the current currency regulation. It is in itself a remarkable situation that the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Central Bank communicate through the media, and that at a time when there is considerable concern about us, considerable uncertainty – and that in itself is a problem of trust in the Norwegian economy. Now is the last day the Storting is gathered before Christmas, and I think it is natural to encourage the Minister of Finance to try today to clarify the ambiguity created by the recent media debate between the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Central Bank. I would like to ask this question to the Minister of Finance: is it the case, as it has been made clear in recent days, that the Minister of Finance of the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Norway have different perceptions of our currency regulation? I don't need the Minister of Finance in Stortinget to interpret the currency code, but it's important for Stortinget to know that those who pursue monetary policy have an equal understanding of the regulations that actually form the basis. It is important for Stortinget, I think, to clarify whether it is correct, as the media says, that Minister of Finance Restad believes that Norway's Bank interprets the current currency regulation completely incorrectly, as expressed. Finally. Does the Minister of Finance think that such a debate between the Minister of Finance and the Head of the Central Bank of the media helps to strengthen confidence in Norwegian monetary policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e470	Case No. So 11 is about rebalancing the budget for the current year, 1998. 1998 has been a year of quite considerable concern, not least in the money and currency markets, where the market has been indifferent to the views of political authorities. It is rare for a finance minister in a country to go out and tell us that the market is wrong and the market is responding back by saying that we confirm our opinion. The finance minister's perception of the Norwegian economy does not match the market's perception. That's enough to live with. What's worse is that the interpretation of the monetary policy to which there is broad support in the Storting is complicated by the actors themselves, and then I'm not talking about the market. It is such that whenever the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance is out and has to tell us what Norwegian monetary policy really is, the market understands less and less. Of course, it may be due to the market, but in the long run, I think it is a difficult job to persuade the market, especially when you bring increased ambiguity to the market. Those who sit between the market and the political actors are like the press, and of course it can also be thought that a common press is wrong, nor should it be excluded. I assume that the Minister of Finance will now say that it is making an overall Norwegian press, for the comments on yesterday's statements by the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, and also those given the day before, give a rather unambiguous impression, namely that the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Central Bank have different interpretations of the currency regulation. I would like to take this opportunity, like previous speakers, to ask the Minister of Finance for clarification. I'll ask you two concrete questions. Why not the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance – I am now aiming for the opinion given in connection with the conference with the social organisations yesterday – now to make the Norwegian krona payroll in relation to the ecu index, as the Prime Minister did in public as late as October this year? Is this a new attitude and policy on the part of the Government? I also want to quote the following from a newspaper comment today, which ends up as a question: ‘How shall we understand it when the Governor of the Central Bank is at 1 p.m. 11.00 reports that the original rental for the Norwegian krona is between 103 and 105 measured against the ecu index, while Restad insists a few hours later that the initial rental is much wider.’ ‘It is ‘total error’ to understand the monetary policy guidelines, as the Bank of Norway does’, is the Minister of Finance's opinion, according to the newspaper. My question is then: Is it possible from the pulpit to confirm – or cancel – whether there is disagreement and, if so, what is it? I just have to add a comment at the end: I think it is unacceptable that this kind of question is made the subject of newspaper polemics. Actually, it should be unnecessary to address it in the Storting, but taking into account the uncertainty that has now been created, I believe that the Minister of Finance should use this last opportunity – probably – this year to further clarify what is the Norwegian government’s vettua policy in a way that can also be understood by actors outside this room.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e490	The government’s view of monetary policy was thoroughly presented in the revised national budget. I therefore refer to it for those who want to read in detail what the Government's view of monetary policy is. It is true, as pointed out by both Hill-Marta Solberg and Per-Kristian Foss, that recent media attention has been paid to monetary policy, and that there was a look in today's business that there was alleged disagreement between the governor and me about monetary policy guidelines. There is no such discrepancy, and the notice is therefore due to the business of the day. And those who have read the business of the day thoroughly will, of course, have discovered that the finance minister has never said that the governor is wrong. It's a statement from the paper's side. In addition to that, I will not comment on what is said, either in today's business or in other newspapers, because it does not serve the matter. I agree with Per-Kristian Foss that a public debate on monetary policy is only harmful. So I don't want to do that. And to clarify: the currency regulation does not specify a central rate of fluctuation margins and the corresponding obligation on the Bank of Norway to intervene in the foreign exchange market, as we had under the fixed-rate regime that applied until 10 December 1992. The regulation therefore provides for flexibility in the exercise of monetary policy. However, the currency regulation obliges the Bank of Norway to keep its exchange rate stable against European currencies. Moreover, the level of interest rates needs to be adjusted to avoid persistent and extensive interventions. At the same time, the strength of the instruments in terms of interest rate changes and the purchase and sale of the currency that the bank can use to keep its price stable is limited. As a result, if the price pressure on the krone should be particularly strong in one or the other direction, the bank shall allow the krone price to change in the short term, but shall arrange for the use of the instruments in order to return the price to the initial rental – as it is called in the regulation. The regulation thus takes into account that the exchange rate may differ from the initial rental, such as the situation. recent, and as it was also at the beginning of 1997. The regulation states that: «The continuous exercise of monetary policy by the Bank of Norway shall be directed towards stability in the value of the krona measured against European currencies, on the basis of the price path since the start of the krona flow on 10 December 1992.» Thus, the original rental for the kroner price is not numerically fixed in the regulation. The Bank of Norway shall exercise monetary policy on this basis. It is up to the Bank of Norway to set the interest rate for the purposes of its monetary policy instruments. Let me also say that it is adopted in the government budget, and a monetary policy aimed at stable exchange rates provides a basis for moderate income settlement next year. In this way, it also facilitates a normalisation of the exchange rate and a lower interest rate. The government attaches great importance to the continuity of monetary policy. The monetary policy regime is firmly established and is an important part of the basis of income policy cooperation. That's what I feel I should say – I don't think I skipped any of the questions asked by the two representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e508	I understand that the Minister of Finance wants to create peace and trust in Norwegian monetary policy, but it is therefore the case that the last few days' statements have in no way contributed to it. It is well known that the Progress Party disagrees with today's monetary policy, but nevertheless it is when the Minister of Finance and, in particular, the Governor of the Central Bank express their views on these issues, of overwhelming importance that they are clear, consensual and consistent. I haven't realized that has been the case in the last few days. I noted that the finance minister said that there was no disagreement between him and the governor, and that if you read the paper carefully, you would see that the disagreement was not there. Yes, I have read the Business of Today very thoroughly – both yesterday and today – and have not been able to see that what is there would provide the basis for agreement between the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Central Bank on this issue. So the finance minister says that the currency regulation doesn't fix the original rental for the Norwegian krona. No, that's right. However, it is time-bound in relation to the starting point of when the krone price should be as stable as possible in relation to the ecu. And if it does, yeah, then it'll probably also numerically fix the output at the same time. What I need to ask the Minister of Finance about is: Is it the Norwegian Bank that is now exercising the practice of the currency regulation and Norwegian monetary policy, or is it the Ministry of Finance that does it – or is it a mixture of the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Norway, a little dependent on when the Department finds reason to interfere in this issue? The council said that the currency regulation would open up so that the krona could be floated freely in the short term. My second question is, what is the short term? Now the krona has moved for relatively many weeks, and the only result we've seen of it is that interest rates have remained high, and that the krona price has further weakened compared to what you obviously think is a natural rent for the Norwegian krona according to this stability. So if "short term" is the term you're using here, it would be interesting to know what kind of delimitation you think this aspect has. But the most important question I would like to have answered was the first, namely, who is now pursuing Norwegian monetary policy? And will the Storting and the market listen to what the governor says, or to what the finance minister says about this question?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e526	The Minister of Finance said that any public debate on monetary policy is harmful. I don't want to go that far, but I agree that it may be harmful for some types of actors to at least hold a debate on this which increases the ambiguity. But I have to remember that it was not representatives of the Stortinget who started by speaking in a way that provided the basis for a significant newspaper debate, that was the Minister of Finance himself who did it, as expressed in today's Business yesterday. Once the matter has been brought up, I believe it is also our duty to contribute to the search for possible clarity. To me, it still seems to be a considerable disagreement when you read the Governor's statements and hear the Minister of Finance. And these are the following: The Minister of Finance says that the guidelines are described in particular. the revised national budget does not define as narrow an exit rent as 103-105. At the same time, it is clear that it is Norway’s Bank’s right to interpret the existing guidelines. Norway’s Bank interprets the guidelines in such a way that the initial rental is 103-105 and that the krona should return there at some point. There are two versions. There is not one version - there are two versions. I don't want to interfere in a debate about what's right or wrong – I think that's not the Storting's job in this context, but I find that we still haven't got the necessary clarification on these two interpretations. It is possible that I am poor to understand, but I find that all so-called market players, economists, who have different perceptions, such as: The Right Party and the Progressive Party agree on monetary policy as such, despite differing positions, that they do not understand what the Minister of Finance says about monetary policy. All of those who are represented both in the Financial Newspaper, in the Business Today and in the Evening Post today have this opinion. And then I think the Minister of Finance has a problem. It is possible to say that the market also has it, but it is, after all, the market that determines. And if you can't make it so clear that the actors understand it – if there's still an impression that Norway's Bank and the Minister of Finance have two different versions of what's going on, or the freedom to define the initial rental – Norway also has a problem, and I had hoped that the Minister of Finance would use this opportunity to clear up the ambiguity.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e535	I take note that Restad in his reply here confirmed that there is no disagreement between the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Central Bank on how to understand monetary policy and how to interpret the regulations. Nevertheless, opinions have been issued in recent days that suggest the opposite. However, when the Minister of Finance uses the opportunity he has here – which he is encouraged to do – to clarify this, we have to assume that what the Minister of Finance stresses in the Storting is also the case. Nevertheless, there remains a significant problem when opinions given to the press and statements that, as I understand, have not been withdrawn indicate otherwise. Finally, I would like to stress that I fully share the view expressed by both the Minister of Finance and others here that our situation is at all unworthy of an ongoing debate on our monetary policy. The working party has also tried to comply with it and has not been an actor in the discussion that has taken place, either in recent days or in the past. But I would also like to use the occasion I have right here and now on behalf of the Workers' Party to establish that we believe it is right to stand on the policy that is being pursued. We think it's right not least in troubled and turbulent times to have peace and ice in your stomach, as it's called, to stand through the gusts of wind. We think that makes Norwegian economy, and we would like to express our full support for that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e542	I mean the Council of State with what he said, has made it clear that there is nothing bad between the Governor of the Central Bank and the Minister of Finance in the understanding of the currency regulation that Norway Bank is going to govern. To be on the safe side, I would like to point out how it sounds: «The continuous exercise of monetary policy by the Bank of Norway shall be directed towards stability in the value of the krona measured against European currencies, on the basis of the price path after the start of the krona movement on 10 December 1992.» In other words, monetary policy is fixed and will be governed by Norway Bank according to the guidelines given, and as I have quoted here, i.e. the 1994 currency code. There is a broad majority in the Stortinget – Labour Party, Right and Center Party – who have expressed support for this through the financial settings, both revised last year, revised in the spring and no later in the latest financial setting. It is also important for us, as big-scale representatives, to help create the complacency of monetary policy that is necessary for the country to be cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e556	I think I'll comment on the posts in the opposite order of what they were held. I'm not going to give too much praise to the committee's chairman, because of course he's going to stand up, and he always does, so that's what they say. It should now be lacking, because we fully agree on the monetary policy to be pursued. Let me also say that I value Hill-Marta Solberg's posts. It is a good contribution to creating the peace that I assume most of us want about monetary policy. Now there's not so much pressure here, but it's so far represented, so I have to assume that what's said by all of us here and now can be mentioned in the media. You know how little is going to happen before you start a public debate. I'm just pointing out that Per-Kristian Foss not many days ago came to speak in a way that made him have to go into today's business to clarify what he really meant. It's not easy to understand the way you want. I guess I don't have so much more to say than what I said in my previous post, which otherwise was more or less words for words exactly the same as I said to a big press basket on Thorbjørnrud yesterday, but which obviously hasn't been understood, from the headlines in the media today. Then you'll see if what I've said here, which is the same thing as was said on Thorbjørnrud yesterday, is of a kind that gives rise to a lot of misunderstanding. I again point out that the currency code does not contain any numerical fixing of the original rental. I quoted, and the chairman of the committee quoted even more thoroughly, the currency code in the field in question. That is the rule on which the central bank administers monetary policy. Of course, it is right for the central bank to define how this regulation is to be understood and to pursue monetary policy on the basis of it. So I guess there were a couple of questions that Siv Jensen asked, which I haven't answered, among other things.: How long are you going to accept that the crown is outside the original rental? There's no defined answer to that either. Now it has been approx. four months outside the rental. In 1997, it was probably about twice as long outside the rental, but it came back again. In addition to that, I do not want to define what is an acceptable period, how long the crown may be allowed to swing outside the original rental until it has to return. So it's right that Siv Jensen started with, that the Minister of Finance wants to calm down on monetary policy. I also think that other politicians should wish to contribute to the peace of monetary policy, regardless of what one might think of it. All of us, not least the country, will benefit from that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e576	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 10 and 11. [[Fotation, see page 1444]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e584	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e602	A vote is taken on the proposal by Mr Ågot Valle, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 14 December 1998: ‘The government asks the Government to take into account that the period of duty of civil guardians may not be extended as a result of any increase in the number of applications for exemption.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e616	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Tore Nordtun on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left from the Odelstinget meeting on 3 December 1998: «The Government is asked to promote a proposal with the necessary legislative proposals to repeal the special company tax scheme with effect from the 1998 income year.»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e632	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the People's Party, the Right and the Tverr-Political People's Party, transmitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 3 December 1998: ‘The government asks the Government to propose the necessary legislative changes to implement a reduction in housing taxes in order to eliminate them in 4 years’ time’.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e648	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Kenneth Svendsen, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, Mr Right and Mr Tverrpolitische Folkevalte, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 3 December 1998: «The Government asks the Government to amend its regulation of 13 February 1992 No. 88 on demarcation, etc. with regard to the circle of seafarers to be deducted from the revenue under the tax law, Section 44, 17th paragraph, so that rescue skates belonging to the Norwegian Company of the Shipwreck's Rescue shall be regarded as ships on board even if the ship measures less than 100 gross tonnage.»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e664	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the People's Party elected by the People's Party on 3 December 1998 from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose the necessary legislative changes to implement spouse-partial taxation, so that the total income of spouses is divided into two equal parts and is taxed in class 1.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e680	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 3 December 1998: «The budget asks the Ministry of Finance to set the tax ceiling for employee options when granted at NOK 600000. Furthermore, the Stortinget Government is asking the Government to evaluate the scheme for the purpose of simplification.» The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e698	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 3 December 1998: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit to the Stortinget a proposal on how the deduction scheme for the trade union quota from 2000 can be converted into a more general scheme which also includes quotas/contributions to other non-governmental organisations.’ The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e759	There will be a vote on the I, except for the cap. 1618 – II, III, IV, and V. The Committee had ceased: decision: The State budget, including the 1998 national budget, shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e2080	There are some corrections to be made to the proposal for a decision made by the chairman of the Committee. The following amendments shall be made: Item 73 under Chapter. 5527 is deleted. Chapters 5545, 5571 and 5577 are also required. These changes result in the following correction in chapter 1. 5800 State Petroleum Fund: Item 50 Transfer from the Fund, reduced by DKK 1 201 300 000, from DKK 18 260 300 000 to DKK 17 059 000 000.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e2091	It is then vottered over cape. 1618:
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e2131	Here the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e2194	I have asked for an explanation of the outcome of the institutional negotiations with the EU on the Schengen Agreement and would like to thank you for having given me the opportunity to do so. On 9 June 1997, the majority of the majority of the population decided to consent to the ratification of the cooperation agreement between Norway, Iceland and the Schengen countries. The three government parties as well as SV and RV voted against. Our reasons for voting against the Schengen Agreement included: privacy, refugee and asylum policy, the need for border control and the integration of the Schengen Agreement into the EU. I would like to stress that the Government's fundamental view of Schengen, as expressed in the Declaration of the Adults, remains firm. The government, in the Adult Declaration, stated that the majority of the population wanted negotiations with the EU to continue Norwegian relations with the Schengen cooperation even after it was integrated into the EU. In connection with this, the government stated that it would work during the negotiations to ensure the best possible performance of Norwegian interests, including: in order to ensure the maintenance of the Nordic passport union. This has been done by the Government. Both the preparations for the negotiations and their implementation have required considerable efforts from the Norwegian side. Negotiations have been among the priority tasks of both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, and have required considerable resources. The Government has also withdrawn independent legal expertise in order to ensure a thorough assessment of the constitutional issues raised in connection with a new Schengen Agreement. Such a thorough assessment notified the Government of the Waksenås statement that it would do so. The Government appointed in May this year a reference group of five legal experts to advise the negotiating delegation on its ongoing assessment of the constitutional issues raised by the negotiations. A total of 13 meetings were held between the reference group and the negotiating delegation before and during the negotiations. The members of the reference group made important contributions to the Norwegian positions during the negotiations. Several of the recordings contributed to improvements in the text of the agreement seen from the Norwegian side. The government believes that the institutional agreement negotiated is a satisfactory agreement on the basis of the prerequisites it had for the negotiations. For the sake of order, let me stress that the negotiations have focused on the institutional solutions to enable Norway and Iceland to participate in the Schengen cooperation when it is integrated into the EU. The substantive content of the Schengen Cooperation Agreement has therefore not been negotiated. The material content took its place in June 1997, when the cooperation agreement was discussed. The government has negotiated the institutional agreement with the EU on a national basis. So we are not going to participate in Schengen cooperation on a supranational basis. This would have been contrary to the people's no in the referendum on EU membership. The EU, for its part, has had the Treaty basis for the negotiations. For the EU, this is an agreement to be concluded as part of the legal basis of the EU. The starting point of the negotiations has thus been different, and this has led to restrictions on all aspects of the results we have achieved. Early in the negotiations it became clear that a solution had to be sought specifically for the specific situation – a so-called ‘sui generis’ solution. It was only to a limited extent possible to seek inspiration in solutions based on other agreements. Sometimes in the negotiations, it was therefore difficult to find a point of balance that all parties could accept. Given the different assumptions of the parties and the government’s starting point for the negotiations, the result has already become an agreement as good for Norway as possible within the framework of the negotiations. Among the factors that make this a satisfactory agreement for Norway in my view, I would first like to stress that the agreement does not confer powers on the European Court of Justice in Norway. It also does not give the EU Commission or other EU bodies any monitoring role. I also see it as an advantage that cooperation between Norway, Iceland and the EU should take place in a joint committee set up under the agreement outside the EU's institutional framework. All matters within the scope of the Agreement shall be discussed in the Joint Committee. The scope of the Agreement is broadly consistent with the scope of the Schengen Cooperation Agreement. Although the agreement has a specific provision on the joint committee's discussions at ministerial level, we will in practice be able to discuss any question we wish, including at ministerial level. Another positive feature of the agreement is that, when drawing up proposals for new rules, the Commission will, according to the agreement, seek advice from Norwegian and Icelandic experts in the same way as from EU experts. Furthermore, it is positive that the agreement recognises that if the EU Commission is to be delegated by the Council of the European Union to draw up legislation in a demarcated area, a mechanism for linking to such regulatory development shall also be negotiated for Norway and Iceland. I would also like to mention that irrespective of the fact that the formal decision on new rules is to be taken by the Council of the European Union for the European Union, Norway and Iceland will decide on their own initiative whether to accept the decision. Norway and Iceland will not have to decide on decisions that have not been discussed with us in the Joint Body. There is also a clear improvement in the rules of the cooperation agreement as regards the situation if Norway or Iceland does not find it possible to accept a decision taken by the Council of the European Union. The cooperation agreement does not provide for the right to be discussed on the question of continuing the agreement in such a situation. It will then automatically cease. The new agreement confers on the Joint Body competence to take decisions within 90 days to continue the contract if a solution is available to this end. Among other things, this includes: the possibility for the parties to agree to continue the agreement even if there are different developments in the rules. Only if the joint body does not agree on a solution will the agreement cease. Furthermore, the termination of the contract is now unconditional, contrary to the cooperation agreement, where there must be serious disagreement in order for a party to terminate the contract. I also welcome the fact that a joint declaration on the agreement also requires discussions between Members of Parliament from Norway, Iceland and the European Parliament on Schengen matters. This is supposed to take place through the existing parliamentary cooperation between Norway and the European Parliament and Iceland and the European Parliament respectively. It has not been the mandate of the reference group of independent legal experts to prepare a joint assessment of the constitutional issues of the agreement. However, the members of the group are, of course, free to comment — collectively or individually — on the constitutional issues raised by the agreement. All members of the reference group have reached the main conclusion that it is constitutionally sustainable for a general majority of the Stortinget to approve the draft agreement with the EU under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. On the other hand, the members of the Group disagree with the view of the closeness of the agreement to the boundaries of the Constitution. The members of the group are based on different premises that they focus on differently. Some have concrete assumptions as the basis for their main conclusion. The government considers – from the starting point I mentioned at the outset – that the institutional agreement negotiated with the EU is as good for Norway as it is possible to achieve within the framework of the negotiations and the different starting points of the parties. On this basis, the Government considers the outcome of the negotiations to be satisfactory. The Government will therefore recommend that the agreement on institutional solutions be signed. The constitutional assessments that have been carried out and that I have just discussed have been important for the further work of the Government on these issues. The Government, after a preliminary assessment, finds that it may be considered that it is within the scope of action of the Grand Duchy to deal with the question of consenting to the ratification of the agreement under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. In this context, the government also emphasises the fact that the cooperation agreement was dealt with under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Basic Law in accordance with the view of the majority of the population. The Government intends to submit to the Stortinget the draft agreement on institutional solutions negotiated with the EU in a proposal that can be dealt with during the spring 1999 session. This will include a thorough constitutional assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e2245	The President will now open the possibility of one representative from each group of parties being given the floor once for up to five minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e2248	I thank you for the presentation. It is very positive that there is now an agreement signed which ensures the content of the original Schengen cooperation agreement and therefore also the Nordic passport freedom. It is also positive that the Government is able to recommend the agreement. Now the Storting just has to wait for the proposition, so that the treatment of it can get started.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e2253	I would also like to thank you for the statement. It was useful to get this information. On the basis of this, it can only be found that the matter is ready to be sent to Stortinget, so that the Stortingen can deal with it on the basis that the Government submits to us.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e2258	There is no wide-ranging debate about this agreement. We've already adopted the material content, so it's just a question of institutional change, which was necessary because the contract complex was to enter the EU and its institutions. I just want to say that there is now a pattern in Norway's relationship. We first have the EEA Agreement, where we really just have to adapt to decisions taken in bodies where we are not present. We have an extension of the veterinary agreement. The same applies in essence to our economic, quite significant contributions to the research programmes, where we have little influence as to what it is really going to be researched. In fact, we are also in the same situation with regard to the WEU, where we have voting rights in different committees, but we do not have voting rights in the assembly. Now it's a matter of including the VEU in the EU system, and then our influence there will be reduced accordingly, because when we're not members, we can't be in these institutions. I just wanted to remind you that this is gradually becoming a slightly problematic pattern. Moreover, this agreement does not concern me in particular, because I have difficulty imagining that decisions can be taken based on this agreement which are particularly unpleasant to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e2263	It seems that the Government has done a very good job, in line with what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been briefing on, and the reactions that have come from the various parties so far as the statement recently made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs is concerned. I stress what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that part of the solutions found is a clear improvement in relation to the cooperation agreement. I also stress that parliamentarians are being involved in this. With the experience we have from EEA cooperation and EFTA cooperation, I think it can be an unconditional advantage. Finally, I would like to stress that the Government's own expert panel confirms that the solutions found are clear within the provisions of the Basic Law, so that it now seems that there is a good and orderly handling of this matter when the announced proposition is promoted for the Spring Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e2268	The Central Party takes note that the Government has carried out its mandate to negotiate the institutional agreement necessary for the integration of Schengen into the EU. I also note with satisfaction that this is still happening on a basis of international law, and that, as has been explained, the European Court of Justice will not be able to gain authority in Norwegian territory. I am referring to the fact that the centre parties in the Adult Document undertook to work to care for Norwegian interests, among other things. the Nordic passport union, in these negotiations with the EU. In the Adult Document, the Centre Parties also announced that an assessment of the constitutional issues related to Schengen should be carried out, and this mission has also been carried out and in line with the assumptions. The Constitutional Group has assisted the Norwegian negotiators during the process and has also carried out an overall assessment of the institutional agreement, and the conclusion of the group, as stated by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is that this is what is called ‘constitutional sustainable’. The institutional framework for the agreement adopted in the Grand Duchy in June 1997 appears to have improved on a number of points, including: in the case of the right of cancellation. Without me having access to the final text, it seems that the negotiators have obviously done a good job, well to note in relation to the framework that Stortinget has given for this process. I notice that it is precisely in relation to the given frameworks and assumptions that the Government believes that the institutional agreement is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e2275	I thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the statement, who, in the view of SV, explains the following: The government will recommend the Stortinget to sign the agreement. Nor have any dissenters been notified in the government about this. And the Government will recommend the Storting to approve the agreement by a general majority. On the SV side, we have a few comments. One is about the procedure. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was very careful to refer to the legal expertise and the sample consulted by the Government along the way, and underlines that 13 meetings have been held, and that this selection of lawyers has had a significant impact on the outcome. This sample has not been commissioned to submit any written information. For representatives who are not in government, it is therefore not possible to enter into the discussion and assessments that these lawyers have actually made. What SV wants is that the various balances and weightings that have been made here are presented in the proposition transparently. We know that the conclusion is the same among the lawyers, but it's a little different to the extent to which one has doubted whether it is within the framework of the Constitution. But the Foreign Minister also says that there is going to be a careful emphasis on the constitutional conditions of what is presented in the proposition. We're assuming you're showing maps in that context. In the opinion of SV, there are two things that are now different. One is the constitutional aspect that has been provoked by Schengen becoming part of the EU system, which could also lead to new grey areas in the relationship between Norway’s legislation and the EU’s. The second is that since Norway joined Schengen, many new decisions have been introduced into Schengen, for example. Europol and Eurodac. It also means that the substantive nature of the agreement may have changed, and that we need to look into whether the agreement is more comprehensive than when Schengen was the last to be dealt with, and whether the material content is, in fact, different. As is well known to Stortinget, the SV opposed the signing by Norway of the Schengen Agreement at the previous enlargement process, and that is what will be the basis for our further work on this agreement as well. Of course, we will focus on the constitutional aspects of further treatment, but also on the implications of this in relation to the refugee and asylum policy that Norway can pursue, and on the issues of privacy that it has to raise in the relationship between the desire for privacy and the desire for effective police cooperation to combat crime on the other side.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e2289	As demonstrated by the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Left voted against the Schengen Agreement in 1997. We emphasise privacy, asylum and refugee policy and the need for effective border control. In the wake of the Adultås Declaration, it was clarified that the Government would base the majority’s wish, which opened the way for one to negotiate a solution to the institutional issues in order to be able to continue the Schengen cooperation after its integration into the EU. During the negotiations, the government has taken good care of Norway’s interests. I would like to stress that only the institutional issues have been negotiated, not the realities of the agreement, which was clarified during Stortingen's treatment in 1997. It is a good result that is available. It is clear that the Agreement does not confer powers on the Court of Justice of the European Union in Norway and that cooperation shall take place in a Joint Committee established under the Agreement outside the EU institutional framework. There is clear improvement on important points, as explained by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The reference group appointed by independent legal experts has considered constitutional issues raised by the agreement and concludes that it is constitutionally sustainable that a general majority of the Stortinget approves the agreement under Section 26 of the Basic Law. I think that this group has been of great importance, both because it has been able to make important input to the negotiators, and because in a proper and independent way it has considered absolutely crucial questions in terms of this agreement and the Constitution. This group was established because the Declaration of Adults expressed the objective of getting a debate and clarification on these issues. Here we see one example that it is not without significance which government deals with such questions. The healthy skepticism can be a much better starting point than the unreserved enthusiasm. I think it would be very important for the wider debate to include these legal assessments, so that one has made it clear that there are no constitutional issues that are unsolved in relation to the agreement. The Left agrees with the Government's conclusion that the outcome of the negotiations is satisfactory, and we base the Government's recommendation and will follow it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-18.ana.ud1256e2306	Several have not asked for the floor and the debate on the presentation has ended. Since this is the last big meeting in 1998, the President will take the opportunity to thank everyone for the efforts that have been made this autumn and this year, and wish all representatives, the members of the Government, the employees of the Stortinge, the press department and everyone else who has their work in connection with the Stortinge business, a really good Christmas and a peaceful and good new year! The first meeting in 1999 is known as 12 January. The President hopes that the representatives will then meet happily, openly and with new forces, ready for new cooperation and new gloom.
