ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e44	Honourable co-representatives! Former representative Sjur Lindebräk is dead – 89 years old. After the law degree in 1931, Sjur Lindebräk was first a judge in Nordfjord and then a university scholarship in law. Although the law as science did not become his career, Sjur Lindebräk was an excellent lawyer. In 1940, he received the King's gold medal for the writing "Transition of the Ownership by Voluntary Transfer of Loan", and in 1948 he took the doctorate of the thesis "Eigendomsrecht and Bankruptcy". In 1936 Lindebräk was employed in Bergen's Privatbank. Apart from the years in Stortinget, the bank became his professional home. In various periods of his life, Lindebräk occupied about all the positions in the bank. He was the bank manager, chairman of the bank's board, working chairman and managing director. In addition, he served as President of the Norwegian Banking Association for a period of time. Sjur Lindebräk was elected to Stortinget in the autumn of 1945, as representative of the Right in Bergen. At that time he was not a member of the party. He was re-elected for the period 1950-1953, but then he did not want to re-elect. In both of his periods at Stortinget, Lindebräk was a member of the Financial and Customs Committee, and was going to have a strong influence on the design of the Economic Policy of Right. He spoke crediblely about full employment and social responsibility. In 1976-1981 he was a member of the Nobel Committee. Sjur Lindebräk appeared early as a charismatic, coercive and inspiring leadership. After leaving Stortinget in 1953, politics remained an important part of the life of Sjur Lindebräkke. He was a member of the Right National Government for a long time, from 1950 to 1982. He was Chairman of the Right from 1962 to 1970, and Chairman of the Right Political Council from 1971 to 1981. Sjur Lindebräk had the ability to inspire. No one was in doubt about his sincere commitment and his belief in the ideas and ideals he foreshadowed. Those who have enjoyed knowing him describe him as a whole fireworks of a speaker! Nor was it a small thing by the nature of Lindebrekke: He was warm, and he was raw. Sjur Lindebräk was born on Voss, and his connection to the Western countryside was strong and genuine. Those who experienced him give at best a shriek on the unforged Ulvik dialect, never forget it. To Lindebräkke's 60th birthday came a festivities entitled "Trust and Contact". That title can also stand as the motto of Sjur Lindebrekke's work here in Stortinget, where he had friends and partners across party boundaries and social divisions. We remember Sjur Lindebräk with deep respect and shines peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e70	The representatives of Ursula Evje, Sylvia Brustad, Kenneth Svendsen, Odd Roger Enoxsen, Inge Wohnning, Bent Hegna and Ola T. Loans, which have been granted, have again taken their seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the Eastern Agder State: Alf-Eivind Ljøstad For Akershus County: André Kukkestad and Rikke Lind For Hordaland County: Gard Folkvord For Northern Ireland: Søren Fredrik Voie For Oslo: Sissel Dagslet For South-Trundellag County: Tore Nordseth Three permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party Group on the sick leave of the representative Haakon Blankenborg from Tuesday 20 October until further notice from the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt on the leave from 27 October until 29 October to take part in the delegation of the Interparliamentary Union to the 53rd General Assembly of the United Nations in New York. from the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim on welfare leave from 28 October to 30 October. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The following alternates are invited to meet during the period of leave: For Uppland County: Kjell Ivar Fossnes For Rogaland County: Helga Rullestad and Helge Solum Larsen
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e163	Kjell Ivar Fossnes is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e180	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 216 of this Official Journal.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e196	It is a broad understanding among professionals and politicians that the Norwegian hospital system not only suffers from a lack of resources, but that organisational and structural changes are primarily needed. Public investigations into the ownership, organisation and management of hospitals show that a number of changes are needed to achieve the objective of better and more accessible health services for the population. The recognition that we have used old and not suitable instruments in health policy has also reached the Government. The Health Minister said to Today's Business this summer that it would serve patients if we could be more bold in the use of demand techniques and private contributions in the hospital sector. This pronounced boldness I look forward to with excitement. In recent years, following strong pressure from the Right, the size of the population has adopted input-based funding and free hospital choice. The natural consequence of this is that hospitals organise themselves differently from before. We are far from alone on these thoughts. A number of Swedish trade unions require a new model for the Swedish health system. The Swedish Medical Association and the Swedish Nursing Association have merged and require the market to manage the health offer to a greater extent. They believe that the county council has played its part in the management of the health sector and requires a total change of health services. Norway may have a stronger economy and a better skier than the Swedes, but the health debate in Sweden has recently been much more dynamic and exciting than with us. The idea that hospitals do not necessarily have to be owned and run by the public is gaining ground in more and more countries and is already developing in several environments also here in Norway. Even Jan Grund, Norway’s leading health economist, professor of BI and a sworn social democrat, believes that the majority of Norwegian politicians are in the trenches in the debate on private health services. The problem is that the basic health services we require are not defined and the services that can be offered to us as consumers and customers. This is why it is so difficult to deal with the discussion about private vs. public health services. He expresses strong support for getting private actors into public health. The SINTEF Unimed Foundation is appointed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Health to lead business development in the health sector. The leader of Paul Hallandsvik believes it is high time to think new and untraditionally about how public can benefit from private actors, and that it is about getting some pilot projects started. Experience from Sweden and other countries shows that a health service model where the public benefits from private actors for the expansion and operation of hospitals provides high financial benefits and high quality services. The assumption of the model is that the public finances the services and that they are distributed as needed by the population. The Swedish Social-Democratic Health Minister blesses this work and believes that it frees resources to treat even more patients and that it provides better quality services. And there are at least five good reasons why we should take a closer look at these ideas. Firstly, the gap between the demand for healthcare for the population and the capacity of health services is increasing. Long health cows speak their distinct language. Secondly, the ideological counter-representations are happy enough to diminish both in the Workers' Party and in the so-called Centre. As Minister of Health Højbräten, in the former summer of today's Business: ‘The question of using demand techniques is... not primarily an ideological issue, but rather a question of how much and in what way it is appropriate to use the technique.’ More and more people have gained experience with private medical centres and private clinics. People have understood that health professionals working in the private sector are equally concerned with the best of patients and the quality of treatment as health professionals in public hospitals. What had to be left for ideological reasons here in Norway has lost its strength, not least because people see with their own eyes that there is no reason to fear private offerings as a supplement — on the contrary. In addition, the willingness to pay for less extensive treatment has increased. Thirdly, public spending over many years has used old and inadequate instruments in health policy. Public monopolies, hierarchical governance systems, the game between the levels of government and the lack of focus on service and quality of treatment have created a crisis of confidence in the healthcare system, and – I say – with justification. Not least, the impression of unclear roles and unclear responsibilities among health care actors is frustrating for patients. Fourthly, demographic developments in the Western world. We live longer, and the pressure on health care will increase considerably in the years to come. Technology development is a fifth factor. Hospitals now, with the right technologies and modern medicines, have the opportunity to treat disease better and thereby provide patients with longer life expectancy and better quality of life. I have registered through the media this summer that the Minister of Health is skeptical about distinguishing between the supply and demand role in the healthcare system. He fears that too many private hospitals will channel services and labour away from public hospitals and that there will be different access to healthcare. However, if the responsibility for the functional distribution of hospitals lies with the State through the approval of the regional health plans, it will determine what is offered where. A national health plan, as Right wants, would be an even better tool. If the public is responsible for financing the services of the individual patient, it will ensure equal access to the services. If the money could follow the patient directly to the hospitals, as right will, and as the Christian People's Party would in opposition, we would avoid that county council taking part of the funding on the road. Hospitals get clear incentives to treat more patients, and we ensure that patients are put first. A model in which public and private competition for the provision of services is also the model that will best ensure patients a stronger position in relation to the hospital system. When the policy priorities in the health sector, the functional distribution between hospitals, control systems and public funding are in place, it becomes less important in the Right’s view who owns and operates hospitals. The exception is the university and regional hospitals, which, in the opinion of the Right, are in a special situation. Privates can well own and have operational responsibilities for the buildings. But the hospital operations themselves must be public, so that you have satisfactory and good control of university functions. We are in a time of growing imbalance between supply and demand. That's why we have to deal with reality. There will soon be no limit to the services to be provided by the health care system. In this situation, we have to control so that we get the most out of the resources. Public attention needs to be focused on ensuring the basic health services and laying down rules for private actors. They should also be given an opportunity to carry out tasks defined by the public as ‘basic healthcare’, as is done in Sweden. But as I have said before, it must be a prerequisite that the public should pay the services, and that the control mechanisms are good, so that the services meet quality objectives. The most important thing, however, is that we give hospitals freedom in relation to the cumbersome political system, so that hospitals can be managed more professionally and tested out different forms of society, as one now seems to have a political majority for this in Oslo. As politicians, we should be more concerned with releasing the public hospitals than with restricting the private sector. We believe in cooperation between the public and private health services. In the Right's opinion, it's about getting some test projects started, because without that, I don't think we're going to move on. How does the Minister of Health view this, and will he take initiatives and stimulate such cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e243	One of the main objectives of healthcare in Norway is that all its citizens have equal access to high-quality healthcare. So far, we have also largely succeeded in establishing a public and solidarity health service where citizens are treated equally, regardless of their place of residence or economy. This objective is the governing body of the Government’s health policy. On the basis of such a objective, the core tasks of hospitals should be primarily the subject of public operation, given the important policy objective of equal access. In privatising core tasks, shortages of key personnel will easily lead to the depletion of the offer to the many in favour of an offer for the few. Such an increased division of our health care system is not desirable in my view. However, I believe that it should be possible to assess to a greater extent the full or partial use of private actors in selected parts of hospitals’ activities. As regards the question of private specialist practice in public hospitals, I believe that each hospital is free to assess whether it is appropriate based on the overall situation and objectives of the hospital. The Norwegian health system has been built up in an interaction between private and public enterprises. We also have a mixed economy here. The elements of private operation have greatly contributed to the achievement of public authorities’ health policy objectives. On the one hand, this has been through non-profit-making private organisations and foundations that still own important health institutions in Norway, but also self-employed general practitioners and specialists have been an integral part of the Norwegian healthcare system every year. Cooperation between health authorities and private healthcare actors has been used as one of several instruments of health policy. However, drug use needs to be evaluated on an ongoing basis, and in recent years we have seen a tendency to increase both the supply and demand for health services that are set up side by side and in part in competition with the public service offer. It goes without saying that in this situation we need to constantly assess whether and to what extent private actors can make important contributions to achieving health policy objectives. I would like to mention four areas that are relevant to this issue. Experience from other countries, the new funding system, the sample to assess forms of association for public hospitals and the development of medical technology. In the United Kingdom and Sweden, a public health service has changed towards creating a distinction between providers — or producers — of healthcare and demandors. Separation of the demand and provider roles may lead to unnecessary duplication and duplication of skills on the one hand, because both demanders and providers must be able to assess the quality and pricing of healthcare services. On the other hand, this distinction clearly helps to clarify that the service is available to patients, thus giving patients greater influence. Focusing on the demand role can also provide a good opportunity to clarify the requirements to be addressed to hospitals, thereby also providing a basis for better and more general political governance. At the same time, this can help hospitals to focus more on their operational management. The intention of these reforms was, among other things: the use of competition would contribute to improving the efficiency of treatment and reducing the costs of hospitals. The experience of the United Kingdom is positive in the sense that the distinction between producer and demandor has led to a better awareness of what is at the heart of the task, but it has been shown that it may be difficult to establish a direct price competition within the public system. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will remain informed about the experience gained with these forms of organisation. The introduction of input-driven funding means that 45 pst. expenditure on hospital operations of counties is financed on the basis of the activity of hospitals. The grants granted by county councils to individual hospitals are also gradually linked to treatment activities. Intervention-driven funding thus means that hospitals are more able than before to influence their income through increased activity. Free hospital choice means that not only hospital services but also patients’ demand will affect hospital revenues. This also means that the State finances a significant part of the increase in activity that is taking place, which will require hospital staff to make an extra effort in the hospital. I agree with the interpellant that there is a need for greater exemption from public hospitals. The Government has reduced a sample to determine the organisational link of public hospitals with the owner. I would like to stress that the position of the majority of the population on county ownership must be taken into account, so that hospitals and their owners have a stable framework for the necessary reform work started in the sector. At the same time, I emphasise that the framework conditions of hospitals are now changing in important areas. The new method of funding – ISF – free hospital choice and the adopted changes to the hospital law, which involve a stronger focus on regional health plan work, are important keywords here. There are also changes in private actors that may affect the situation of public hospitals. In this context, the question of whether hospitals should be given a freer organisational position becomes a central issue in this work. I am referring to the fact that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, in connection with the revised national budget, is assessing whether the Radium Hospital and the Rikshospitalet should be organised as a hospital enterprise. The committee has a deadline of 15 March next year, and I will come back to Stortingen on the basis of a debate based on the work of the committee. Developments in medical technology include: to investigate and treat more and more disorders through interventions that do not have such a significant impact on the patient that hospitalisation is necessary. For public health, this development alone means a significant increase in efficiency by allowing an increasing number of patients to receive a good offer without accommodation. However, this development also shows a clear distinction between the services provided in hospitals and by private practitioners. Through the organisation of clinics, private practitioners have invested in equipment that enables them to perform many interventions that were previously only done in hospitals with subsequent hospitalisation. Today, formalised cooperation between the county council and the private specialists is required in order for them to be entitled to reimbursement from the social security system. In Oslo we have also seen that the municipality has gone a step further by putting a number of eye operations on offer to private clinics. Today, it is up to the individual county council to assess the division of labour between the public hospitals and the private specialists. We need to be open to technological developments suggesting that public health services can allow an increasing number of patients to be pre-treated by private practitioners. This is in line with the objective of minimising the effectiveness of treatment. To sum up, it must still be the county council's duty to ensure that the population has equal access to important specialist health services. I expect that this need, to a large extent, in the same way as today, will be covered by the public hospitals. Regional health cooperation provides opportunities for the coordination of functions between counties. But the legal system provides, and will in the future provide, access to agreements with private individuals to meet specified needs. The policy objective of healthcare is as stated: the whole population shall have equal access to healthcare irrespective of geographical and social affiliation. This can best be ensured through a highly publicly funded and managed healthcare system, where the ownership of hospitals is mainly on public hands. However, I am also open to assess the distinction between the funding and demand role and the producer role in some areas, in order to make the division of labour and responsibilities in the hospital sector – the role distribution, as the interpellant called it – clearer. Private actors may be involved in identifying needs and opportunities for shifting diagnosis and treatment from hospitalisation to outpatient treatment. This is positive. Through deliberate management and planning by the county council, private clinics and other private practitioners can be an effective and readily accessible supplement to day care and outpatient consultation in hospitals. At the same time, we must assume that the growth of the private supply makes it more difficult to recruit specialists in the public sector of the healthcare sector, and in this way this growth poses a risk of weakening public supply, especially in outlying areas. We must pay particular attention to that. Technological change and new and more efficient financing and demand techniques mean that county councils and individual hospitals want greater freedom to use private actors within a politically defined structure of public health services production. Especially in densely populated districts of the country there may be room for the sale of various services to public hospitals. However, it must be clear that the purchase of such services in the private market leads to genuine competition. It is also necessary to assume that such outsourcing does not contribute to the deployment of qualified personnel in key strokes or to the extraction of human resources from the general range of offers. In scattered regions of the country, the creation of real markets will be more difficult, based on both demand and access to skilled labour. However, there is every reason to expect that increased competition for services in some parts of the country will contribute to the testing of alternative organisational and treatment techniques in competition with the established public health system and that such service development could provide important incentives for the renewal of service production throughout the healthcare system. At the same time, we must not look blindly at market opportunities to the extent that we lose sight of the constraints. Firstly, public financial responsibility is a vital prerequisite for an equivalent provision of healthcare. This raises the issue of the extent to which government is to purchase services from private operators or operate in its own direction. Because we have a relatively small and scattered population in Norway, too much private provision of health services could lead to a centralisation of the provision of services that is not consistent with our policy objective of equal access to services. Therefore, my conclusion is that the majority of the activities in the hospital sector will continue to be carried out in a system of public hospitals, so that the geographical distribution of hospital services is determined by political authorities. By increasing emphasis on the role of regional health committees in the coordination of health services, there is a good basis for rational political governance of the overall hospital provision in Norway, while opening up to the selective use of private actors through various forms of organisational and economic relaxation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e277	I would like to thank the Minister of Health for a full and thorough answer. As the Minister of Health said, one of the main objectives of healthcare in Norway is that all citizens of the country should have equal access to healthcare. And he goes on to say, how far have we succeeded in this through the establishment of a public and solidarity health system? Yeah, do we? I don't think the 270 000 who are in a health queue are going to feel that way. The reality is that the health service for many is experienced at random and very differently, depending on where they live. So far, public health has been viewed as synonymous with justice and equality. The reality is inequality. The Minister of Health has been in the United Kingdom and concludes that he wants to keep himself informed about the experience gained with the separation of the demand and provider role, i.e. that the producer of services is distinguished and that the country is being sought by services on behalf of the population. I think we definitely have something to gain from it. This will strengthen the overall political governance of which the Minister of Health and I am concerned. But I think the Minister of Health should be open to gain experience in Norway, so that we can get answers to many of the questions related to such a model. The Minister of Health is concerned about ownership. I am more concerned with public governance – with 19 municipalities and five regions it is difficult to place responsibility. We need a national health plan. If the public takes on a role as a demand, it will give us a clearer role-sharing. The delimitation of the role of the county council is not very clear today. To put it simply, politicians can limit themselves to defining overall objectives and strategic health policy choices. Professional staff can concentrate on making patients healthy. I am pleased that the Minister of Health is looking at the possibilities of having this effect within the public domain. Such a division of roles will give us increased public governance, not weakened. The Minister for Health said: ‘However, there is every reason to expect that increased competition for services in some parts of the country will contribute to the testing of alternative forms of organisation and treatment techniques in competition with the established public health system and that this type of service development could provide... incentives for the renewal of service production in the...health sector. ‘... Yes, that is, and that's this effect right here, we don't think we can afford not to exploit. That would be the same thing as saying that we know that the health system is not working properly, but that we don't want to do anything about it. But we have to gain experience ourselves, not just follow the trials in England and Sweden. That is why, on behalf of the Right, I am promoting a proposal in which the Stortinget asks the Government to take an initiative towards the County Municipality in order to launch pilot projects, gain experience in controlled forms and get a concrete evaluation of benefits and disadvantages. I have noticed that the Minister of Health has set up a sample to investigate the form of association of public hospitals with their owners. I agree with the justification for the sample work, but I am amazed at the lack of boldness in assessing the current ownership. It will limit the possibility of being able to assess, without prejudice, the possibilities of private ownership and operation of hospitals on condition that the services are publicly funded.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e301	The representative, Mr Sjeli, mentioned a proposal. Does that mean that she addresses this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e304	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e309	The representative, Sjøli, has then taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e312	Now I did not give a picture of Norwegian health care, and those who have heard me from this pulpit earlier during the year I have been Minister for Health have probably not avoided noticing that I have been full of recognition of the weaknesses and neglects of the Norwegian health care system. But we're about to do something about it. Since the representative Sjøli mentioned the waiting lists, I assume that she has noticed that we are actually seeing a positive trend now, with a halving of the number of warranty breaches since the end of the year. But I agree that there is reason to give the public hospitals a freer position. Politicians are in many ways too close and too far away at the same time, and that is a dangerous combination. They are too close by the fact that political leaders in many places have quite great powers to influence the internal functioning of hospitals. They're too far away to have assumptions to be able to do that. My clear advice to Norwegian hospital owners is that they give the management of hospitals greater powers and a freer position to deal with the challenges posed by the new framework conditions, to which I referred. Let me also say that I am open to gaining experience in Norway with other solutions, and therefore the sample that has been set up has been assigned to maintain close contact with hospital owners who are either in the process of, or are preparing for, such trials or changes. Just so that this sample does not encapsulate processes that are in progress, the mandate has given an opening to this effect. But I think it makes sense that the further national policy process is based on this sample work as a main basis. Let me finally say that when the representative Sjøli on the one hand says that who owns the hospitals is not decisive, and on the other hand almost assumes that I should have put up the work on the basis that other than county municipalities should own the hospitals, it is not entirely up to me. Of course, I have had to base the sample work that is now under way, the clarification that has taken place in this room about who will own the hospitals. It would be directly alarming if the Council of State did not deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e323	There is a broad consensus in the EEA that reforms in the health sector are needed to help improve resource use, while ensuring high quality. There is also a background for a number of measures and reforms by the Workers' Party to ensure better and more services for patients. Increases in productivity must be made while ensuring equal availability of important health services. This also implies that the principle of equivalent treatment needs to be adapted to our geographically dispersed population pattern. There is a need for fundamental reforms, both within the management and organisation of hospitals and for a better functional distribution of hospitals. These reforms are in the early stages of implementation, and I believe that a freer position for hospitals can help to speed up the transitions, release forces and contribute to greater financial responsibility within hospitals themselves. The Labour Party therefore supports the selection work undertaken by the Government to explore different models of hospital organisation based on current financial instruments and policy objectives, which bring together broad support in the Stortinget. The representative, Sjøli, refers to experiences in other countries that are based on the Thatcher model, and she seems to believe that the outcome of such experiments is clearly positive. That's not right. On the contrary, several countries that have implemented models based on private actors competing between themselves have seen the need to reverse their health policies. I would like to stress strongly that cooperation between hospitals must be an important element in exploiting both money and competence for the benefit of patients. A one-sided competitiveness-oriented healthcare system will be poorly suited in a country such as Norway, where this will include: can easily lead both patients and personnel to accumulate in the central eastern region. I believe that the wide-ranging sample now appointed will assess all aspects of the experience gained in other countries too, in order to find solutions appropriate to Norwegian conditions, equal opportunities for treatment and the Norwegian housing structure.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e332	It's an important principleal health policy question interpellant Sonja Irene Sjøli, addressing. I believe that regardless of the political stance that one takes on health policy issues in terms of ownership, operational responsibilities and funding, it must be of common interest that the resources collected in the healthcare system, both in public and private, are used to a maximum extent in order to reduce the long waiting lists for hospital treatment. They're really long, and it's not as much as the Minister of Health could express here today. It makes no sense, in my opinion, that the Volvat Medical Centre, which has overcapacity in medical services for surgery, with its own professionals, should not be able to use this capacity to the maximum, because the department has so far refused to increase the number of bed places at the clinic. The substantive justification used by the various health ministers is that approving enlargement in the case of private health market actors will go beyond the public health service, particularly on the staff side. This is not a lasting argument, but a social-democratic myth. Health professionals apply for independent jobs where they themselves find it most attractive, not least professionally, and so far the private health services keep very high professional standards. Several of the clinics re-train their own nursing staff. A more liberal approach to private health services, including several private hospitals, I expect the Minister of Health to have in the future, because the most important thing in this context must be that as many patients as possible receive treatment, and that the waiting time for treatment will be reduced regardless of who provides the services – public or private. The social democratic mindset that has prevailed in this area should at least change at least the current Minister of Health, based on the central government, and it relatively quickly. The new health insurance that has now been put on the market, I hope to have a strong support for the population, which will lead to a stronger competition between private and public health services, which are only positive from the point of view of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e339	The health system in Norway represents a composite picture of public and private actors and of ideal and commercial interests. With this structure – some might say lack of structure – we have received a health care system that, after all, largely satisfies our overall requirements for proximity, equality and quality – and despite the fact that we are using a slightly smaller proportion of gross domestic product on health than most countries it is natural to compare with, and despite, geography and housing patterns. The development of medicine has made it economically impossible to accomplish everything that is medically-technically possible. This, of course, is not a specific Norwegian issue. Health costs money in all countries and in all economic systems. Therefore, the solutions have been different. I would venture to claim, as a broad generalization, that in countries where the public has borne a significant share of the health care costs, it has been assessed whether no greater degree of privatisation would be economically beneficial. Similarly, in countries where health services are largely based on private forms of organisation, it has been assessed whether increasing public responsibility for health would be a better economy. From this I draw two conclusions: firstly, that health costs, in any case, and that costs will increase in line with medical-technological innovations. Secondly, it is not necessarily the form of organisation or ownership that is essential for the health economy. In the Norwegian health system today, both public and private actors have their rightful place. Nevertheless, public health must be a guarantee to the individual that he and she will receive the healthcare they need when they need it and where they need it. As the interpellant pointed out, in other countries different forms of organisation have been tried, including: to distinguish between producers and health care demandors. It's probably right to say that the experience with these trials has been both positive and negative. In the case of Norwegian hospitals, Stortinget has adopted county ownership and regional cooperation. As the Council of State mentioned in its statement, the framework conditions of hospitals are now being changed in several ways. The government has set up a selection to establish the organisational link between the public hospitals and the owner. These are important and central issues, which need to be thoroughly addressed. I look forward to the selection setting with great interest, and it seems reasonable to await this setting before making changes in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e349	Just a few brief comments on this topic, which has already been thoroughly elaborated, among other things. in the answer given by the Minister of Health. For the Centre Party, it is a clear objective and an overall principle that the welfare needs of citizens for healthcare and care should be a public responsibility and a public matter, with public funding and management system. If all citizens of the country are to have equal access to high-quality healthcare, it is important that this is managed. We have a widespread settlement in this country, and we are afraid that focusing on privatisation and the economic aspect of providing health services will lead to a centralisation, which in turn leads to a very different offer to the individual, depending on where they live, and the economy they have. Call it what Mr Alvheim had to say, a social democratic principle. At least it's a good principle that we should have equality regardless of place of residence, economics, social status, etc. We have had a law in Norway – we still have it, and we will probably also have it in the future – which provides opportunities for interaction between public and private health services and health services. I think we should build on that. Governments were concerned about the development of this today. It is true that we have relatively low consumption of private health services in Norway, but this is changing. Volvat Medisinske Center was recruited by the representative Alvheim in terms of available capacity. I think it is more important that we use the available capacity of the Volvat Medical Center in an interaction with the public health system, among others. by renting the speciality and technology there, rather than Volvat Medical Centers expanding their bed capacity now – to take an example of what is developing. I think that the system we have had with an interaction between private and public health should still be there. It is also clear that the launch of this sample, which will take place in March 1999, will be crucial for how to organise the health system further. Otherwise I will join, among other things. the importance of reforms within the healthcare system in terms of management, organisation and cooperation, as well as the ownership of the eye. I think the government should have control here. Through, inter alia: regional cooperation, to which it has now been provided, is an opportunity to exploit resources in a much better way than has been done in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e364	I will first give tribute to the interpellant that this theme is addressed. I don't think one should be afraid to go in and turn on stones and look at different solutions, evaluate the weight of the argumentation and see if other ways to organize health can provide others and better solutions. However, I disagree with several of the conclusions reached by the inter-pellant, especially as regards market thinking as a suitable mechanism for creating a better health care system. A prerequisite for the functioning of the market is that competition contributes to a better product. Unfortunately, what has also been the case in Norway is that competition for human resources has given rise to increasing differences in health services, where the supply to the population has not at all become more similar, but it has become more and more different. You can see that from the numbers that come out of the distribution of medical specialists. If you, for example, If you look at the figures for Oslo, you'll find a density that is approx. four times the size of Uppland. You can probably find some reasons for that, but it's still a development that's intensified over time and that's worrying. It is clear that a market will only reinforce these trends, because it will establish private services where the population density is higher and the offer from before is also greater. Therefore, networking solutions, national cooperation solutions, need to be more appropriate in order to create a health service that aims to be equivalent to the entire population. We don't want to achieve full equality at any time, and maybe it's not a goal either, but you have to create an equivalent offer. I am very pleased that the Minister of Health so strongly stressed this and also talked about the lowest effective level of care, which has not been much talked about in recent years; instead, more centralisation, more market-oriented solutions, which in turn contribute to greater differences. SV believes very much in health regions as suitable units to create an offer if it is possible at national level to manage resources in order to achieve a more even distribution between the different regions. What we see today is that the offer in the different regions is very different, and many people are struggling to get medical specialists. There is also a worrying trend in municipal health services, where the number of medical years worked has now actually fallen for the first time in municipalities with fewer than 4000 inhabitants. As SV sees it, the market is unsuitable to do something about the differences you see developing. SV supports the selection work undertaken by the Government, and therefore does not see the need to support the proposal promoted by Sonja Irene Sjøli here on behalf of the Right. I would once again like to stress that many of the ideas expressed today by the Minister of Health are those supported by SV and which will be constructively supported.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e383	Very many countries are testing models for governance, organisation and ownership. The clearest conclusion you can draw in my opinion is that there is no perfect system, and there is no magic formula. The Swedish health system, to which the interpellant refers, is also in the same search, and the experience from there is divided and not unambiguous. It's important, as the interpellant also says, that you're willing to think new and untraditional. The working party shares that approach, but we do not want to draw the conclusion that health improvements are necessarily dependent on larger elements of private actors. But I do not deny that we should further develop a better interaction between the public health services and the private actors we have, among other things. in order to obtain a priority and targeted use of public money made available by private health professionals. In recent years, the size of the population has adopted a number of reforms and measures that can give us an even better health care system. A basic starting point for further development is a health care system with equal accessibility for all and high quality at all stages. I am not sure that today's waiting guarantee system is the way forward, as current investigations also raise questions about. Guarantee schemes are too random and sometimes operate on completely wrong premises. It is also necessary to consider providing an individual patient in need of specialist health care, an individual treatment plan specifying treatment arrangements and timeframes. Even private health services, which can be a useful supplement today, I do not think the solution to a good health service for everyone. Now I think we should make recent reforms work, and I refer to a number of reforms that the Storting has adopted: input-driven funding increases State responsibility for specialist training and medical distribution obligations and formal regional cooperation free of hospital choice improved management and organisational models in hospitals range of specific plans, including: psychiatry and cancer plans to increase hospital freedom These are measures that need to be considered together and that need to be effective before making new experiments. Nor do I believe that people’s health problems should be a marketplace for private actors, where a driving force will be economic returns and, as a result, – as several speakers have been involved today – a danger of a stronger centralisation of health services.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e424	I find some of the contributions that have now been made, reason to maintain that there is no reason to doubt that we all stand firm that our health care should be publicly controlled and publicly funded. So it's not from any party that the market should control everything, and that economic interests, private economic interests, should be the basis. The background for the Right issue here is: how can we ensure that a greater proportion of the public health billions we use are more beneficial to patients and do not go away to other things? How can we improve the functional distribution of public hospitals? Yes, how can we make the system work better in a future where we know that opportunities are only going to grow, while resources will be limited? I am pleased that so many have agreed that one must be willing to think new and to initiate investigations, as the Minister of Health has also taken the initiative. But it surprises me that you are so restrained in trying to dry out new thoughts, not as pervasive and pervasive ideas, but in trial projects, as the Right's proposal actually goes on. You can't just say hallelujah, you actually have to do it too. It is true, as the interpellant said, that we need to gain our own experience of how new instruments work in our country, not just look at how they work or not work in other countries, even if they are neighbouring countries or neighbouring countries. I saw the health minsite as well on the way positive. I have to say, however, that I began to wonder whether he has made himself an extended arm of the Commune Union when, at the very beginning of his speech, he said that on the basis of the objective we have of a solidarity policy, it is important that the core tasks of the hospitals should be primarily the subject of public operation. There must be a logical flaw in this reasoning, because there is nothing to suggest that something is a public responsibility, also means that the public should be a service provider. In fact, the daily newspaper had an interesting leader yesterday who was dealing with the provision of care by municipalities, but who has quite large parallels, where they say that for users it is not crucial who performs the services, but the quality and capacity of the services. In fact, it also — at least it should — applies in the provision of health care. It is the interests of users who have to stand in the high seat, and then it cannot be a general idea that the public should perform the services if the public, the community, can benefit more from a certain level of competition to deliver quality at the price fixed by the public at all costs.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e437	The representative, Mr Sjeli, addresses a problem that many people are concerned about. It is important that the population, regardless of age, gender and place of residence, has good access to healthcare, and that is what we best ensure with public governance of health policy. We must continue to bet on a comprehensive and good public health system, but some private offers are also to be made in the future. These must be subject to public authorisation schemes and operate within agreed frameworks. Public funding must not be required, while private interests have governance and profits. One of the problems with private actors is that they do not find it interesting to operate in the districts. Something quite different is if public health services buy some services on a limited scale. In such cases, the agreements will ensure the closeness of patients. We have such an example at Gjøvik, where the county acquires mammography screening from the Breast Institute. By doing so, we have received an offer we would not otherwise have had. Similarly, other partial deliveries may be purchased in order to carry out non-capacity tasks. The thing to be aware of is that if private people can do this cheaper with profits than public money can do without profits, then it's public too bad, and then we have to make sure to do something about it. There is hardly any cooperation with private actors that provide better health services, but better organisation and better use of resources. The main task of the health care system is to treat people. When qualified personnel are largely assigned to carrying out administrative tasks and to treating an ever-increasing paper flood instead of people, it is necessary to call for a warning and look at the organisation. We have a political responsibility at all levels to take this seriously. An important part of this work is the relationship between the social partners. Good communication and good cooperation are important and essential in order to reach agreements that allow the healthcare system to carry out its task of treating people.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e454	This has been an interesting debate. Everyone is broadly positive about the changes that are taking place, and is also behind both the objective and the reforms that have been implemented. I am pleased that the Minister of Health made it clear that there is no gloss he draws from the health service in Norway. He says that the waiting lists show a positive trend, and that there are fewer warranty breaches. It was supposed to be missing, too! The right has been a driver for patients to get a guarantee of treatment, which now works well. In addition, input-based funding appears to be very positive. I am in favour and support of the Minister of Health's selection. There is no contradiction between that and the proposal that has been put forward by the Right. The proposal is more operational and the selection work and projects may be carried out in parallel. We're moving in a partly unknown water. But it is impossible to sit with any phase response without having seen how a cooperation between the public health system and private actors works in practice. We want pilot projects to gain our own experience, precisely because, as many have been involved in this debate, Norway is not like other countries. The Minister of Health is in favour of assessing the full or partial use of private actors in selected parts of the hospital’s activities. And as he says, there are some hospitals that are free to consider whether this is appropriate. That's good! However, the Right wants to try this out in practice, in controlled forms, so that it is possible to make a concrete evaluation and assessment of benefits and disadvantages. If we don't implement the health system changes, I think the result will be just as the Workers' Party, SV and the Government fear, namely a two-way sharing of the healthcare system, where those who can afford to pay for private health services, either in Norway or abroad, do. Right wants a strong public controlled health care system, as the rest of the Stortinget wants. But I think it is a danger to the public offer and the general principles of health policy, because the public will not do the competition. The right-hand objective is a strong public health service. It is no longer a question of whether we want to increase competition and more private actors in healthcare, because competition is there. And the system conservatism that some people here profess is a threat to well-being, because competition provides more well-being because we get better use of resources. We get freed resources to create even more well-being through increased access to healthcare. It is not, as some claim, immoral and unethical with competition, but it is immoral and unethical to extend health cows and not make the most of society's resources.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e469	Let me first thank the inter-pellant for the initiative for a timely debate, which has also given me the opportunity to look closely at the experience gained by other countries. Here I think it is absolutely necessary that we learn both from the mistakes of others and from what has been successful in other countries. Personally, I have had the opportunity to study the experiences both in England and Sweden in preparation for this interpellation, and I see that we can have useful experience there, both in terms of error and success. I also think the debate has been useful in that there have been relatively modest ideological overtones. For me, it's very good, because I think it's achieving the health policy objectives that are the important thing, and then we have to discuss the balance of the various instruments. I'm open that we're not just learning from the mistakes and shortcomings and successes of others, but that we're also trying out alternative solutions ourselves. It has very much freedom to do within the current legislation, and they are also invited to have a dialogue with the sample that has been reduced, just about that type of experiment. That is why I believe that the process has already been implemented. Let me end by saying that in this debate we cannot close our eyes because we have an increasing imbalance of health professionals in this country geographically. Any debate on this issue of closing your eyes will be a debate on Oslo and Akershus and some other central districts in the country and not on the large geographical areas in Norway which unfortunately experience an increasing shortage of health professionals, especially doctors and specialists. This must be dealt with by national authorities, including in a debate on these issues. I noticed that the representative, Høegh, thought that I pretended to be ‘an extended arm of the Commune Federation’, and that it was not useful just to say ‘hallelujah’ – something I sometimes do – but that it also had to be done. I believe that the representative Hoegh will find clear differences and contradictions in a closer study of my post and the posts that have been kept from that organisation. For me, this is largely a matter of ensuring overall national objectives, and I have a very open relationship with the instruments. I believe that, through regional health cooperation, we now have a tool for rational political management of hospital services in Norway. At the same time, through various forms of organisational and economic relaxation, we can open up a selective use of private actors in the framework of a public health system.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e483	So the debate is on case No. 2 o'clock. [[Opinion on proposals, see page 233]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e499	The energy and environmental project around Sarpsfossen is unique, unique in the sense that here they have confidence and the leadership of the four companies create a collaborative project. This cooperation project has taken the authorities seriously in relation to national and international objectives and obligations in the energy and environmental fields. They've thought new and they want to be in front of this area. The companies included in the project are Globe Norway AS Hafslund Metal, Glomma Papp A/S, Borregaard Industries Ltd. and Hafslund ASA. In total, these companies have added over 2,000. The project is based on the fact that Globe Norway AS Hafslund Metal, which has an electricity consumption of around 600 GWh, can use the heat energy contained in the exhaust gases in the production of ferrosilisium to establish a recovery facility. Such a plant may provide heat, including in the form of steam. Glomma Papp A/S currently has a heat/vapour requirement both for the process and for heating purposes, and this energy demand is currently covered by an oil boiler. Today, the need for thermal energy at the Borregaard Industries is two thirds of the total energy demand. The heat energy from Globe Norway AS Hafslund Metal will be able to replace heat that otherwise has to be produced using fossil fuels, and Borregaard also has large quantities of excess heat that can be used for district heating systems in Sarpsborg. By establishing a district heating network in Sarpsborg, the energy used by the industry itself once more can be used once more. These four companies are so close to each other that a total use of energy can be considered. Of course, the initiative of the trustees of these companies is motivated by the desire to develop the businesses more and to ensure that the individual enterprise continues to live in conditions while they are concerned with the environment and by reducing emissions – yes, the project shows that a combined reduction of CO2 can be reduced by 44 pst. from Glomma Papp and Borregaard. Of course, securing jobs in the district, and perhaps also having to do with bullying and additional employment, is also an important motive. Then one can ask whether this project, which is so good, could not find its solution without there being a political debate in Stortinget about it, because there are many who think it is also an economically good project. There is no doubt that the project is good socio-economic when considering both energy use and the environment. It has been important for those who are confident in getting a project that can be managed across company boundaries, and therefore a steering group has been set up in which the company's leadership is also represented with the trustees. The business-economy criterion will always be an assessment underlying such large investments. That's why the power price of Hafslund Metal is also a big question in this case. History around Hafslund Metal is the same as too many businesses before the power-consuming industry at the beginning of the l990-years. They cancelled their long-term contracts and entered the spot market. So did Hafslund. How wise this was, of course, one can always discuss. I don't need to repeat all of Hafslund's history, because it's probably well-known here in the hall after a lot of commitment both from politicians in Eastfold and from all over the trade. But in l997 the work was restarted with a commercial contract with Statkraft. The contract can only be terminated by Statkraft, which is of course questionable. Throughout l997 and l998, trade unions have worked in collaboration with companies to implement this great environmental and economic action at Sarpsfossen. This is a reduction of l00 000 tonnes of CO2 in the power-consuming industry. The owners of Hafslund Metal have approved the project and are willing to invest up to 100 million. kr if the works receive energy at a competitive price. The new regime we are talking about for the power-consuming industry, l05, has taken too long. We know that this issue has been raised in the Stortingen in many contexts, and the government of Jagland promised a proposal for a new regime this year. The central party has been a major driver for a new regime, and when they are now in charge of the leadership of the department, I realize that there must be political problems in the government itself, which means that one has not been given a proposal for a new regime for this industry. But when the Government, together with the whole Biggest, aims to carry out an additional project, and when the Storting has allowed large funds for this, it must be allowed to ask whether it is not possible to participate in getting this good environmental project into port before we get into a system for the new system to be put in place, 105. I would also like to ask the Council of State when this new scheme for the power-consuming industry comes, because now is tolerable at the end of the Storting. I want to repeat once again that the Center Party was one of the drivers here in Stortingen to get this system out, so that this industry, which is so busy and dependent on long-term contracts, can know what framework conditions they have when the large investments are to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e522	The process industry is a major energy consumer and has some significant greenhouse gas emissions. Therefore, improving the efficiency of energy use and helping to reduce emissions in this sector is an important part of energy and environmental policy. Facilitating the use of waste heat energy is among other things. important. This is a responsibility both for the enterprises, for the community and for state authorities. Globe Norway AS Hafslund Metal is located in an area where there should be good opportunities to exploit waste heat. Borregaard and Glomma Papp, both nearby, have a significant heat demand in their businesses. Many of the heat needs of these companies are currently met by steam production by burning heavy oil, which produces significant emissions of CO2 and other greenhouse gases. The proposed and mentioned environmental project around Sarpsfossen is, in the Government's view, a very good environmental and energy project. The interpellant asks in his interpellation whether I can see any possibility of having this project realized relatively quickly. The Ministry’s assessment is that more relationships indicate that there should be good opportunities for this. Firstly, the project itself seems to have very good profitability. As far as the ministry has been able to go into the project and assess aspects of it, it could be expected in a significant way to generate income for the company that can once again strengthen the profitability of Globe Norway AS Hafslund Metal — not only socio-economic but also clearly business-economic. The Government, on its side, is committed to contributing to the development of this type of action and will provide financial support for the implementation of the project by the parties. From the Government side, the following measures are relevant as a contribution to the realisation of the project: Through the alternative energy grant funds, the total amount of the project will be up to 11 million. kr in financial support. A large part of these funds will be contributions from the grant funds managed by the NVE. The condition for these funds to be disbursed is that the company has applied for and received a concession for the district heating system. Such a grant amount is one of the highest of any single enterprise or project ever received from the funding referred to. If investments are started, the project will also be able to provide some financial support from the alternative energy resources in 1999. Like other alternative energy measures, remote heating installations will be exempted from the investment levy from 1 January 1999. This is in addition to investment aid and will strengthen the economic basis of this type of project. The project in question is also recommended to seek debt financing from the environmental fund set up by the Government under the Ministry of the Environment budget and managed by the SND. Loans may be granted from this to projects which directly or indirectly lead to reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and other environmentally harmful substances. Projects aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions shall be given priority in this context. Overall, these support measures and the profitability of the project itself should be able to give the environmental and energy project the boost needed for the parties to choose to realise the project. The force conditions for Hafslund Metal have also been highlighted as an obstacle to the implementation of the relevant heat recovery facility. Hafslund Metal has no state power contract for historical reasons. The company was originally supplied with power from Hafslund Energie, but in 1992 the melting plant chose to cancel this agreement and buy the power in the market. The company is currently covered by a commercial contract between Fesil and Statkraft. The contract was concluded in the autumn of 1996 when the market price in force was quite high and, in relation to the current market price, the conditions are not favourable. As part of the implementation of the heat recovery project, the Ministry has been asked to intervene in order to improve the power conditions of the company. The authority of the Government to award new contracts to industry under politically defined conditions has been given through the treatment of St.prp by the Stortinges. No 104 for 1990-91. It is clear that power can only be given to new projects. The issue of awarding 104-power to Hafslund Metal has been assessed several times in recent years. Because it is not an investment in new production activities that leads to an increase in power needs but power to replace other power supplies, the Ministry does not have the power to meet an application for allocation under the 104 regime. Another option that has been assessed is to oblige Statkraft to withdraw from the commercial contract with Fesil. After an overall assessment, I cannot support such an action. As I mentioned earlier, there are more direct economic instruments that the Government is now choosing to use to support the heat recovery plant itself, i.e. the project it is about today. The agreement between Fesil and Statkraft was concluded on a voluntary basis between two seagoing parties. In this context, state power has behaved just like the majority of the population – including the batch of the inter-pellant, the Workers' Party – has wanted them to behave. Intervention in Statkraft’s dispositions will have significant precedent effects. It may be difficult to discriminate between other actors who are also party to commercial agreements with State power. The negotiating position of sovereign power in future commercial agreements could also be affected. Moreover, it is highly doubtful whether the measure complies with the State aid rules of the EEA Agreement. If you were to instruct Statkraft to cancel the contract, it would be right for the Storkraft to grant a compensation for the loss associated with such termination. This would involve a very significant need for funding. The Ministry is now working, as the interpellant had in mind, with different solutions for future power contracts for industry. Which enterprises will be included in this way will be a central issue. Hafslund Metal is an enterprise which obviously needs to be assessed in the context of the renewal of the State Power Contracts, the so-called 105 regime. However, what becomes Hafslund's concrete position in a new industrial power regime is too early to say. The size of the stock has been through treatment in the spring provided that the projected future power conditions of the power-intensive industry are to be presented by autumn 1998 at the latest. As I mentioned in the big debate on 12 June this year, I have been working to clarify the long-term power conditions of the industry in the Department and in the Government. However, the matter is also – as I believe more representatives here and not least interpellant are familiar with – very complex. The proposal will affect a number of actors with very different interests and there are many considerations that need to be weighed up. If the proposition is presented during the harvest session this year, the Government will not be able to adequately account for all relevant circumstances. Therefore, as indicated in the 1999 State Budget, the Government considers it most appropriate that the proposal on the future power conditions of power-intensive industries be presented at the same time as the Energy Communication, i.e. before Easter in 1999. It will also allow Stortinget to make an overall assessment of energy policy, including the position of industrial power. The Government is set to contribute to the realisation of the district heating project based on waste heat from Globe Norway AS Hafslund Metal through substantial financial support for the project. Overall, this means up to 11 million. 1998 kr. Financial support may be paid once a concession has been granted. If investments are started, the project may also calculate some financial support over the years to come. As I said, there is also reason to recommend Hafslund to apply for a loan through the environmental fund. In addition, the exemption from the investment tax applied from the turn of the year will enhance the profitability of the project. Furthermore, prioritisation of energy work in municipalities next year could provide the basis for an extension of the use of district heating in the Sarpsborg area. Overall, it is the Government’s assessment that these contributions through direct financial support should contribute positively to the success of a good and profitable project with the promise needed to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e560	I'll have the Council of State thank you for the answer. Of course, as many others have done, it is quite another speech from Marit Arnstad no as the Council of State than it was from Arnstad, who in 1994 discussed the budget in Stortinget, where the Senterpartiet actually had a proposal that the Ministry should order Statkraft to ensure that Hafslund Metal was awarded long-term power contracts in line with St.prp's intentions. No 104 for 1990-91. I have never said anything about a person having any intention that this should be included under St. prp. No 104, because that's what we've done many times in Stortinget and in the department that there's no room for, and that's actually not what was my starting point for today's interpellation. My question to the Council of State was, in fact, about what could be done pending a new regime. Of course, I agree with the Council of State that these are agreements between two equivalent parties, but there is a lot to do if one has a political desire to do so, and I thought that this Council of State had for the good environmental project that lies here. When it comes to the realization of the project of a district heating plant in Sarpsborg based on waste heat, the aid schemes to which the Council of State referred will, of course, be very helpful, and it seems to me that I am positive. But what I think is negative is that it had to go so long, and that there had to be an interpellation in the Storting before one could do anything in relation to this project. It's been over a year since the trustees started working on this in close cooperation with the department and political leadership, both before and now, so this should have been done. But okay, we're not going to spend too much time on what's been going on. In any case, my wish is now that the project be launched, and I will ask the Council of State to contribute everything it can to make it a reality. Of course, I'm not satisfied with the fact that the new power-consuming industry system is waiting for spring. That means that the Storting barely gets to discuss it in the spring, so it's going to be the fall again before it becomes a reality. I have to say that when the Stortinget has so strongly pressed for a new system for this industry, which I feel the Council of State says – that at least Hafslund opens up the possibility of coming under, it should come so early that they could really get established from the new system and also the built-up system.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e571	If this Council of State, as a representative in this Chamber, has never expressed its opinion on this project or on the conditions of force in which the representative of Frøiland was involved, I am fully aware of the pure proposals made by the Central Party in the 1994-95 budgetary position. I am also fully aware that if the Workers' Party had wanted it, they could have supported it. Then we had a majority. The proposal was defeated. The government's authority today is seaworthy in dealing with the clarification and the powers of the majority in the Stortingen at that time, and we have dealt with that. It is a strong political desire of the Government to contribute financially to supporting the project. I think that's what we do through the direct financial grant that we now want to grant. It is, as the representative here says, a socio-economic good project, but everything indicates that it is also a very good business-economic project, and that in very few years the project should have great potential for making good the investment that results from the project. As regards the treatment of the project, the company applied for grants from the NVE. That application has been treated in the same way as all other applications — it has not taken longer for this application than for other applications. It has been decided in a positive way, and it has also been decided that one can contribute further beyond the amount of aid envisaged. But it is also true that these funds cannot be disbursed until you have applied for and received a concession. No one has yet applied for a concession for this project and that is a prerequisite for the payment of the funds. But I want to strongly object that this has taken a little longer than it will do for any other comparable project that is applying for public and state support. With regard to the presentation of the 105 regime, I agree that this is an important matter. I would have liked it to have been possible for the government to present that proposition during the autumn. But I see that it will not provide the Storting with a good enough basis for decision. It will not provide the Government with the opportunity to adequately account for all the conditions of the power regime. There has been a development that we also need to take into account in terms of commercial agreements. This means that we may have to have even more varied solutions for the companies that are left, which have not made business agreements – i.e. not the big ones like Elkem, Norwegian Forest and Norwegian Hydro. This is a very extensive work, and I hope that the Stortinget wants you to have the best possible decision-making basis. What I can say, and which is also stated in the budget proposal, is that we will present the proposition before Easter. I hope that in time will give the Storting the opportunity to deal with it during the spring. I would also like to say that, in the case of the government of Jagland, the previous promises of when this was to be presented, this government cannot, of course, impose on them.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e584	Since 1990, electricity consumption has grown four times as much as the expansion of new power plants. The increase in consumption is not due to industry. The powerful industry uses about as much power today as it did 25 years ago. There's nothing to suggest that the growth in consumption is going to go down radically. On the contrary, there is every reason to believe that the power deficit will increase if nothing is done. Despite the ever-increasing power deficit, the Government has not lifted a finger to meet the power needs of the future, not lifting a finger to ensure that the industry is sufficiently powerful – at the same time as two of the centre parties have been among those who have long demanded a new power regime for industry. The centre parties have also been sceptical about many of the measures taken by the Workers' Party to secure the power supply, for example. the construction of power cables to the continent in order to ensure the possibility of importing power. The central parties have also been skeptical, and almost in principle opposed to the development of new hydropower, and on the question of gas power they have chosen the simplest solution, namely no. The working party took the load by running that discussion. All of this we did to improve the power balance and make the situation easier for powerful businesses. An action that could increase access to environmentally friendly power is increasing investment in energy recovery in industry. Calculations show that a production of up to 1 TWh can be obtained from energy recovery, and that is 1 TWh of the most environmentally friendly force. But then action must be taken to make it profitable enough for industry to see fit to invest in energy recovery. There are several such projects as there in Sarpsborg. Among other things, in Notodden and Kristiansand, something similar is being done. In connection with the treatment of green taxes in our house, the Stortinget Government asked to clarify as soon as possible the question of a refund of this electricity tax in order to make it more profitable to invest in recycling. In the 1999 government budget, the government will make a proposal for this that looks pretty good. This is what the Government proposes in its fiscal, fiscal and fiscal policies, which are designed to release energy-recovered power. What is now crucial is that we have to get assurances from the Council of State that this is a system that should last, that there is no doubt on the part of the Council of State that this system should be continued and, if possible, made even better. This is so much investment that there must be no doubt about the tax and tax system. I said the government hasn't lifted a finger to improve the power balance. The decision on tax relief shows that the government is not completely dead. I'll give the government credit for that. We see movement in the little finger. That's good. But it's still the main question is the force balance. The government hasn't done what it's supposed to do, and what it's promised, and the government parties have been doing for years, that's putting in place a power-intensive industry system.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e605	The project included in this inter-pelling debate is a positive project that facilitates better energy use and lower greenhouse gas emissions. There is therefore every reason to hope that the project will be realised. When it comes to the terms of the project, I share the Council's assessments. The project must, of course, be able to apply for support from the environmental fund, the project must also receive an exemption from investment taxes such as other district heating projects, and it must be able to apply for alternative energy grants. Overall, this should contribute to a realisation. As regards the assessments in relation to power prices and Hafslund Metal's long-term business contract, I also share the Council's assessments. It is not desirable to intervene in one way or another and thus overestimate the long-term contract in place. In particular, it is not desirable to have such a short period of time before Stortinget receives both the Communication on energy policy and the Proposition on the future power conditions of powerful industries. I also note the assessment by the Council of State of any State liability. It also strongly opposes intervention in existing agreements. Finally, I would like to remind the Labour Party and not least the interpellant of what this particular party said about the precedent effects of finding special solutions in special situations when we in our treated Right Document No. 8 proposals on, inter alia: Elke Sauda's power supply.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e616	The project we are facing today is a well-worked project, a project that will provide quite good total solutions in terms of energy coverage, environmental emissions and the maintenance of employment in Sarpsborg. There are certain prerequisites for achieving this objective for the enterprises involved. It is quite unique that companies such as Borregaard, Glomma Papp, Hafslund ASA, Globe Norway AS Hafslund Metal and now also Eastfold Energieverk are involved in such a project, and it deserves both attention and support. As has been said, in order for this to be a good economic project, of course, business economic criteria must be taken into account. We all know about the problems that Hafslund Metal has had with power contracts and the delivery of power. This has been up to treatment repeatedly here in Stortinget. There has actually been great will from the Storting that one should be able to solve this problem, but one has not come to the end. A prerequisite for implementing the underlying investments is that the company has long-term power contracts, and that they might also have the same conditions as the other industry, which we know they don't have per. today. So when you go into the 105 regime, the new regime, you should be able to get Hafslund Metal under it. I also think it should be possible to solve this without having to wait for the new power regime. It has, as has been said before, been a pressure from the Stortinget that one should go in and get a solution to this, but it has been a negativity, especially from Statkraft, when it comes to contributing to this. It is a bit unique when two parties enter into voluntary contracts, that only one party can cancel the contract. It's a little unique in today's situation that it's still like this. I assume that this will also be dealt with when entering the new power regime and in connection with the notification announced before Easter 1999. I still hope that you can find a solution, and that you can get this project up and stand before you have dealt with the entire 105 regime.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e625	This is an important debate on an exciting matter, but it is in many ways about more than one issue, because it shows what great opportunities we are facing in terms of the exploitation of waste heat. I also think there is reason to commend the local involvement in this matter. We have seen that the management and trade unions have stood together and exerted considerable pressure. There is an exposure that has made impressions and deserves fame. The exciting thing about this project is, as the Council of State pointed out, that, with the technological developments we've had, it's now beginning to be a good store to act constructively in relation to the environmental challenges we're facing. Most of the evidence suggests that this is a project that is not only socio-economically profitable but also profitable from a more limited business-economic assessment. It is the best foundation to drive and further develop projects like this. At the same time, I agree with the Council of State and the interpellant that it is important that the state and the public contribute to the realisation of the project. The Council of State has shown its willingness to do so through its response. I would like, not least in the light of the inter-pellant's observation that an interpellant had to be interpellant in order for the Council of State to produce instruments that could be positive to this applicant, to draw attention to the fact that this is not the case. The increase in State subsidies to an additional and alternative energy sources in the State budget has not been accelerated by theinterpelation but by the government shift. In the course of two years, appropriations for this purpose have increased from 170 million. NOK 270 million. kr. It is also the government shift that has opened up the possibility of an investment tax exemption for this type of investment. In sum, this is a power cap that should mean that this project should be realised. I am of those who will follow this further with the greatest interest and are concerned that the public should definitely help to make use of this exciting opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e632	The planned energy and environmental project around Sarpsfossen has raised legitimate awareness. The intention of this pilot project to achieve the best possible solutions in terms of both energy supply, environmental emissions and employment also deserves broad support to be realised. I have to say that I am sincerely pleased that the Government is opening this up through the various measures that the Council of State Marit Arnstad has now outlined. Priority should be given to local trust-elects in the four Sarpsfossen businesses. The initiative for cooperation across traditional corporate and group boundaries on the exploitation of common energy resources should provide a model for similar solutions across the country where it is facilitated. Therefore, it goes without saying that the central authorities need to put themselves behind and encourage different measures that make this possible. Not only will this be a notable contribution to the objective of reducing national CO2 emissions. In addition, the project will focus on this interpellation, providing significant environmental benefits in relation to the air quality of this heavy industrial environment in Eastfold. It goes without saying that it will not be possible to realise the Sarpsfossen project unless long-term and predictable framework conditions are laid down. This means, among other things: aid for the necessary planning for the conversion of products and the construction of energy recovery facilities, which also requires the authorities to provide the necessary price assumptions and long-term guarantees for the supply of electricity. And here, like others who have spoken in the debate, I should like the Council of State to have gone further. There is no concealment that the time factor has been important to get the Sarpsfossen project on the rails, not only in relation to the four companies involved in the planning process. This environmental project is undoubtedly also one of the best developed so far. It is important both for the process industry and for the authorities to gain further necessary experience and to link the production of energy closer to the environmental problem. The Kyoto Agreement concluded is a binding agreement also for Norway. The Sarpsfossen project is in many ways a very good way to meet the requirements of this agreement. The energy sources we already have need to be better exploited, both for the urgent need for energy in the future and – not least – for environmental reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e647	What this is all about is four significant energy consumers in the Sarpsborg region who have worked constructively over a long period of time to develop a technical and energy-saving project of which there is a great deal of respect – and which should provide a basis for good energy solutions in other industrial areas in our country as well – which opens up the exchange of high-value industrial energy in industry and which can then be transferred to public buildings and, if possible, to housing in the future. This is exciting, and we're just imagining the beginning of a project. The project in Sarpsborg between heavy industrial establishments near the site opens up new opportunities, which may, of course, also be present in other districts. I am therefore very pleased with the positive approach that the Council of State has taken in this matter, by the fact that there are significant financial supplements here, among others. by granting an investment exemption and which, as far as I understand, should lead to a rapid start-up already in the coming years. The project, as it has been developed, appears to be a very profitable project and not least a good environmental project in the Sarpsborg region. I see that the interpellant is concerned with the future power price, which of course any business owner follows very closely. Taking out individual companies for almost a single treatment during an interpellation in the United Kingdom, I understand, of course, that the Council of State cannot do so. This must be done by a comprehensive treatment in the Storting of all agreements under the so-called 105 regime, which is announced next year. It is not an unknown matter that Hafslund Metal in Sarpsborg has had major challenges over many years because of its special power agreements. However, I hope and expect this corner stone company and the other companies involved in the Sarpsborg project to receive a positive treatment when the 105 contracts are to be processed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e659	To repeat myself, I once again want to underline: I have not criticised the Council of State that Hafslund does not get long-term contracts after 104, because I think that is actually right that they should not have. But I allowed myself to remind her of what the Center Party said, and I am, of course, sorry if it is the case that the present representative Marit Arnstad was not in agreement with them, but I actually believed that the whole Center Party was behind this proposal. Of course, when it comes to investment exemptions for building district heating plants and using waste heat, we in the Labour Party are pleased with the decision taken in connection with green taxes, which will allow us to make much better use of this around the country. It is important to have this work done, and it is right for the environment to do so, and I agree with the Council of State that I believe it will be profitable in the long term. So the council says she doesn't take responsibility for what the government of Jagland promised, and of course I didn't mean to mention that in any way, but I'm a little bit wondering about the sarcastic use of words in the hall from the representatives of the government party now in relation to a new regime for the power-consuming industry when we know about the pressure that was last year from just the parties that were in opposition, to get a new system in the course of this year. But it is absolutely right that to get a basis for discussing a new system, there must be a proposal from the Government, otherwise it will not be good. But I'm disappointed that it takes as much time as it does, and it's not surprising that one puts this interpellation in the light of a new 105 regime, when the Council of State here says it's obvious that Hafslund can enter this new system. Therefore, it is important to put a new system in place when it concerns this industry. I will, as others have done before, again praise the local trust leaders for the initiatives they have taken. Because it is clear that being involved with their companies so that they can develop further is important. But when they're able to combine it with taking care of the environment, they've done a huge job in Eastfold's industry. I would just like to close them down and hope that the Council of State will give them the advice they are asking for. How to apply for a concession, I didn't think it was necessary to deal with the Storting. These trustees have actually gone to the authorities and said what kind of project they have, and ask the authorities for help to get the project through, and I believe that the council will give them when it comes to economics – that is, these 11 million. the crowns – and that they are then brought in correctly when it comes to how to make the different applications in force.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e670	Let me first say that I share the views that have been expressed on the positive aspects of the project at Sarpsfossen. There is also a reason why the Government will support the project financially with an amount that is significant and as a single project, this project will receive a high aid intensity. One of the reasons is that the Sarpsborg area is a very interesting area for the development of district heating plants, both industrially and in terms of the degree of agglomeration. The speed at which start-up can take place in relation to such a project depends on the fact that the company actually applies for a concession and receives it. Like hydropower and wind power, this type of installation must also have a concession before they can start up. The company has been informed about the application procedure of the NVE and the dialogue they have had with NVE about the conditions to be fulfilled in order to receive support. I have sometimes had a feeling that the debate has been more about power conditions and powerful industry than about the environmental project around Sarpsfossen. This may be interesting enough, but if it is the realization of the project itself that is now at stake, direct financial support at this level proposed should be more than sufficient for a project that cannot only be profitable but which is already considered to be largely profitable. If this is about something else, if it's about force conditions on a more general basis, we're going to be waiting for the 105 regime. I see no reason for one to be detained in discussing when the 105 regime should come. The government is concerned that it should come as quickly as possible, but we are also concerned that it should provide the best possible basis for decision-making. During this year, the Energy Committee has presented its position, and the Government will, in this context, promote a communication on a comprehensive energy policy, and it has been many years since the Stortinget last had the opportunity to discuss. In connection with that communication, we also want to put forward the industrial power regime, and it has been said from my side in quite clear order from this pulpit when we think it should come. One might feel that these are aspects of Hafslund’s conditions of power that are not good. I also see that the conditions they have today are not good in relation to today's situation. Once they have entered into an agreement on a commercial basis, one has to ask himself how one party can accept a condition of non-cancellation, but they have done so voluntarily. And that makes this not an unproblematic matter to deal with. When it comes to movement in the little finger, which some people were in here, I have to say that in the past – at least until November last year – you thought it was dead, there is life now. And if it's just in the little finger, I think it must be positive. The government will add up to continuing the investment in an additional and alternative energy sources that we have started.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e683	So the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e689	: Then we should be ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e5633	During the debate, the inter-pellant has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right. The proposal has been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e5638	As the Minister of Health explained in the debate, there is a government-appointed sample investigating the situation with regard to the organisational links of hospitals, with a deadline of 15 March 1999. I think it's most natural to wait for this investigation. In view of that, I would recommend the representatives of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left to vote against the proposal of the Right if they maintain their proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e5643	SV has the same reason as the Christian People's Party: the government is doing a selection work, and one should wait for the outcome of it. If the proposal is dealt with in reality here in the Chamber, I would like the SV to vote against the Right's proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e5648	I would urge the Members of the Labour Party to vote against, with the same justification.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e5653	I think the proposal is very good, but after the signals that have now been given, it will be voted down, even if the Progress Party will support it. I do not think the proposal deserves that. So I would recommend to the Right to turn it into a transmission proposal – there are also some far-reaching elements here that it is difficult to decide on on a standing footing.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e5658	Right-wing wants to maintain this proposal. We are positive about the sample that the Minister of Health has put down, which is going to carry out investigations. But we want to be more operational, we want to start trials and get projects going that can go parallel to this sample work. We know enough about that. The Minister of Health was also involved in his statement...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e5665	This is an explanation of vote!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e5668	Only to the last point, that the county has today the possibility to carry out such project activities. That's right, but here the government had the opportunity to give some signals to the county councils and get a more targeted experiment. That's what we think would be good, because what's happening today is more random, and there's also a lot of resources that go away that way. That is why we want to maintain our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e5673	We vote on the proposal of the representative, Mr Sjøli, on behalf of the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to take an initiative towards the county councils in order to launch pilot projects in which it cooperates with private individuals on the construction and operation of hospitals. It must be a prerequisite for public funding of the various services.The projects should be able to assess: private financing of hospital buildings.private financing of medical/technical equipment.private operation of some support functions.different forms of ownership such as foundations, state enterprises and A/S.’ The President has understood that the Progress Party will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-20.ana.ud1560e5704	In Case No. 3 there is no votering theme.
