ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e27	The called alternate of the Troms County, Ruth Stenersen, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e35	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e40	I suggest Ursula Evje.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e45	Ursula Evje has been proposed as vice-president. Other proposals are not available, and Ursula Evje is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e66	On Monday, the Stortinget received notice from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik and the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Odd Einar Dürumsta Council Magnhild Melting Authority Kleppa The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. Some representatives have signed up in advance with a request to ask questions. The representatives who, in addition to them, wish to ask questions are asked to stand up. - Thank you. We will then start with the first main questions, from the representative Hill-Marta Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e82	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Prime Minister: The Financial Committee has now completed its work on the financial position, and negotiations on the State budget were concluded soon a week ago. At the end of the work of the Financial Committee, it may be known that no majority of the State budget has been drawn up for the following year. Through the media, the Prime Minister has stated that he has a solution to the budgetary problems. If that were the case, would it not be natural that this solution had been presented through the Financial Committee, so that the Storting could also have gained insight into this through the financial position to be presented immediately to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e89	I have not stated that I have a solution, but I have stated that of course we are thinking about how, towards the time when the Storting will adopt a budget, we can try to find a solution. Now we are in a difficult budgetary situation. I agree with the representative of Hill-Marta Solberg. The government and all the parties at Stortinget have a responsibility to contribute to a solution. According to the Constitutional Act, § 75, the capital increase is to adopt a State budget. Right-leader, Jan Petersen, said at the beginning of this week that we should now perhaps go into a quiet week – use the phone, not the media, to find solutions. I think that's wise. I agree with him. Now, if you really want a solution that one so far has not achieved, I think you should do it the way that Jan Petersen said, not by playing out or negotiating through the media or the voice of the Stortinge. That's why I want to do my own thing so that it can happen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e99	I have to make it clear that my question to the Prime Minister was not about whether he might intend to negotiate through the media, but whether it would not have been right that the possible solution that might be found per. telephone, had been produced through the work of the Financial Institution in the Financial Committee. It is true that the Government is represented by no less than three parties in the Financial Committee, and we should therefore be able to assume that a possible solution could be presented in those negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e104	Several attempts have been made, both through the Financial Committee and in discussions between the parliamentary leaders of various parties, to find a solution within the time limit for the release of the financial position. It has not worked, and it is too late to do so now. But that doesn't mean that the parties at Stortinget are going to give up finding a solution in the finance debate, and then I think we're going to have to use different methods than communicating publicly if one really wants a solution. The government parties and the government want to contribute to a solution, and we take note of Jan Petersen's invitation to how one now might best handle it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e112	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e115	Frankly, I had not thought that the silent week should be so quiet that it is the Prime Minister who is speaking, and I am not saying anything, so I have a question for the Prime Minister. In Bergen's Official Journal yesterday, the Minister of Industry of the Right warns and says that there will be no agreement, there will not be a basis for broad civil cooperation for many years. The parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party is somewhat similar. But the problem with this is that I have not noticed any broad civil cooperation. On the contrary, the Government has very clearly stated that it is a block-independent government and has presented a budget proposal that is just attacking the Hearts of Right. And then my question is simply what is in this statement from the Minister of Economic Affairs. Maybe this is one way to go. My question to the Prime Minister is simply about the Minister of Industry's statement means that the Government now sees that this will develop into a broad civil cooperation where everyone participates on an equal footing and what action the Prime Minister intends to take to achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e125	Everyone knows what was the background because we got the government we now have. It was that the leader of the Workers' Party went off voluntarily because he did not get that connection at the big elections last year that he intended. He still has that connection, of course, because the composition of the Storting is unchanged for four years. I see today by a newspaper that he's talking about the gallop now giving him more than 36.9 pst. But it doesn't have much to say for Storting's composition. There was no basis for a broad non-socialist government last year because the Right Party and the Centre mutually excluded each other from government cooperation. I have not registered new signals in this way and must relate to it. But it is clear that for the climate between the non-socialist parties, for example, it would be unfortunate. The right would help to ensure that a responsible budget is not adopted now, which a government cannot live with. Jan Petersen began by saying that it should not be such a quiet week that he should be silent. No, I had not expected that either, and I have not registered it recently. What I hope, on the other hand, is that Jan Petersen will focus on, is that the government parties have gone a long way in the adjusted proposal we have presented in the Financial Committee. It is better than the Workers' Party's proposal, firstly because we have the cash support, which the Workers' Party does not have – they will even remove it in the middle of a kindergarten year, from 1 January. It is better for business in terms of shipping taxes, sharing model for family businesses, stock discounts. The Labour Party, however, will frustrate support for the private schools. This can't be good right-wing policy. Government parties have included the reimbursement scheme for seafarers, which the Workers' Party does not have. There should be a basis for cooperation between the government parties and, among other things, between them. Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e135	I note that the Prime Minister did not have anything to follow up the Minister of Industry's statement, so we are well faced with another case of double communication by the Government. I would like to remind you that the draft budget is an attack on the important issues of taxation, defence, the fight against crime, road construction – matters that lie at our heart. We offered to talk about the budget before it was presented. It was rejected from the government parties. It seems to me that the government's block independence is that it's the government that's going to be independent of the blocks, while the Right always has to stand up for the Government, and that way there's leftovers of the old two-block fence again in the Government. My question to the Prime Minister is: What is it in the government's policy that had to justify the concept of "bourgeois"?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e142	I have never been a strong supporter of the expression bourgeois. It reminds me a little too much of the struggle between citizenship and the proletariat. On the other hand, I have used the expression non-socialist about the current government parties, and I have said that we are center parties. But based on what Jan Petersen puts in the expression "civil," I think it must be interesting for the Right that we have proposed and achieved a reform of family policy that increases the freedom of choice for young children's parents, and I sincerely hope – or of course – that the Right is at the cash support agreement, because the Right has always been a reliable partner. I would also like to stress that in the adjusted budget line the central parties have submitted, we have agreed to increase the appropriations for defence, even more than the Workers' Party proposes, and to increase the appropriations for the police and judiciary. Our arrangement is better than the Labour Party's in terms of taxes and taxes, even if we do not fully comply with the Right. So the presentation Jan Petersen gave was not exhaustive.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e149	Here is the basis for asking for the word of a manifest misunderstanding...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e154	This does not allow the regulation. We're going on with a follow-up question from Børge Burnde.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e159	The Prime Minister's only concrete answer to the question from Jan Petersen about what was civil policy in this Government's budget was the implementation of the cash support. But it was adopted in the spring. It was the financing of the cash support we were going to return to in the budget, and here the Prime Minister and the Government have chosen to finance the cash support through the biggest tax increases in the decade. You have to give with one hand and take with the other. Talk about a lack of prerequisites for a reform that would strengthen families! And one of the other reforms proposed by the Government to help strengthen families is to remove a holiday – in order for families to have more time for each other, is that what was the starting point? Nope. In the quiet week, Einar Steensnæs has taken on a bit of the prime minister's role and been around and warned that even if the government wasn't going to get its budget through, you won't go off, that's the responsibility of Storting. Does not the Government have a responsibility to present a budget which is at least an opportunity to get through in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e166	I realized the exchange of notes on the way to the pulpit that Burnde speaks in Jan Petersen's spirit, and I think that's quite fine. What is it in this draft budget that is so-called bourgeois, was it asked. I understand that the Right is talking about possible budgetary cooperation with the Workers' Party. The Labour Party has provided a budget that is worse for business, worse for taxes and taxes. They have provided a budget that would frustrate support for private schools, which could not possibly be civil or right-wing policies. They will take the cash support from the small children's families in the middle of a kindergarten year, from 1 January. These are so important things that I would think that the Right must think well about. So Børge Burnde makes the question of taking away a holiday as a big point, it should be a so-called non-citizen policy. I think it was so late as in 1993 that the Right itself suggested removing two days off. So I think one should think in a little bit bigger lines than that Burnde's posts gave the impression.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e175	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e178	I have a question for the Prime Minister, who has always been deeply concerned about value issues. I assume that the Prime Minister agrees that people's sense of security is important to the standard of living they have. This may be particularly true of older people. When you lose your sense of freedom and don't dare go out, among other things. in Oslo after the dawn of darkness, the standard of living is reduced, and it is a very important issue of value. The latest developments in the area of crime and violence in Oslo are being met by the Government with a de facto Minister of Justice who has no immediate action, no proposals that can do anything about the situation as it now evolves. I will be allowed to ask the Prime Minister if he will see to it that the Government is now doing a lot of different things to meet the sweeping and violent wave that is in Oslo, for example. by providing the country with a new Minister of Justice who is not as decapitated as the sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e185	The last thing the Prime Minister does not intend to do, on the contrary. We have a good Minister of Justice. The government takes the problem of violence seriously. The government continued to put forward an action plan against violence. It is well received, among others. by Mr. Oslo's chief of police. I was even with her a trip in Oslo centre one night a few weeks ago, among other things. For with your own eyes to see how the nightlife of Oslo appears. And she said that the measures outlined in this plan were a good tool for, among other things. Oslo Police. I agree that we have not been able to solve the problem, and in recent times we have had ugly cases, not of so much more violence, but of far more serious violence than has been the case in the past, and I think this must be attacked in several ways. There has to be more police, and it has to be more police in the streets. That is what the Government wants to work for, and that is why, in the adjusted proposal, the central parties have also presented to the Finance Committee, we have gone further than in the original proposal in terms of appropriations to the police. The Ministry of Justice has also authorised a test system with video surveillance of some strokes in the centre of Oslo, so that those who are out of business should know that they can be monitored and taken more easily. Then there is an indisputable fact – although Carl I. Hagen does not like to hear it – that the police chief told me the night we were out in Oslo center, that is between 60 and 80 pst. violence is committed by intoxicated persons, and when it is between 60 and 80 pst, it is because it is slightly different in different age groups. And most of them are drunk with alcohol. The liberal alcohol policy that has been pursued in Oslo, not least under the pressure of the Progress Party, is, in my view, a strong contributor to the gross violence we have.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e202	I figured the Prime Minister would suggest again that you want to go back to the prohibition period and almost stop all the alcohol service. It led to the greatest criminal development ever wherever it was attempted. What I miss from the Prime Minister is, among other things, legislative changes and immediate action to demonstrate that the big community will not be involved in these developments. Then it not only helps with long-term plans, then urgent action is required. It does not appear in the government's paper pile that is available here. It's action now in the next few weeks I'm calling for. Will there be any proposals from the Government for changes to the law that would result in reactions that would be prejudicial to those who are perpetrators of the violence? I also think that the Prime Minister should, in fact, consider whether he should not now clarify whether the Government will join the report of the Ministry of Justice that new posts for the Oslo Police will be completed in two or three years – that is, say yes to the 680 posts proposed by the Committee on the Resources of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e209	Carl I. Hagen can't be serious about the fact that the vast majority of acts of violence are committed by people who are addicted to alcohol, by accusing someone of wanting to return to the prohibition period. It's a total bomb shot. Neither the Prime Minister, the Christian People's Party, nor the Government for that matter has such thoughts. But one must be willing to see the context, one must be willing to see that Oslo is now among the world's most liberal alcohol policy capitals, and that this results in violence. The Progress Party must soon take the consequences of this. Then we also have to do other things, for example. insert immediate measures. The government will discuss it. I'm e.g. for my part, to also make parents responsible in relation to the children and young people who unfortunately contribute to violence and also to make Oslo insecure for, among others. older people. And in the second bill that can remedy the situation, we like to promote it, but I don't think we should believe in the simple solutions. This is also about prevention, and we need to get into the gangs and also into the immigrant communities that contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e215	Björn Hernæs – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e218	I am pleased that the Prime Minister is now stressing an old Right demand for more visible police. We appreciate that. When the Prime Minister refers to the action plan that has been put forward, I would like to stress that there are many fine words, but it is an action plan that totally lacks money. This was also underlined during the hearing – which it must be called – that the Committee had yesterday with a cross-political sample from the Oslo City Council. Finally, there is a concrete proposal on more police in Oslo, because this is the main problem. But that proposal is then bound to take the police from District Norway. But it's not like there's a lot of police and laymen in the districts, and they're out of work waiting for new assignments. In parts of District Norway, there is some balance between the number of police officers and the work required of them. Will the Prime Minister maintain this proposal that it is the districts that are going to solve Oslo's police problem?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e227	Measures have been requested immediately, including: by Carl I. Hagen. If there are police districts that think they can deal with the police in an acute transitional phase, it should also be possible to do so. In fact, there have been police officers who have taken a positive view of it. But then there are other police officers who have been negative and who believe that they need the crew there, and then we have to respect it. It is not right that the action plan against violence presented by the Government is just full of talk. It actually contains concrete measures. And I think that herenæs should be careful with such a characteristic when Oslo's chief of police says that the plan is a good tool for her in the work in Oslo. In fact, I listen as much to her as to the representative hereafter in this case, because she is closer to the problem – with all due respect for the representative hereafter. This action plan refers to more visible police, more rapid criminal reactions, cooperation with non-governmental organisations [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e236	The President recalls that the time for reply is one minute. Jan Simonsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e241	The number of gun threats has increased by 36.1 pst. from the first six months of last year to the first six months of this year. On this basis, the Advocate General has requested that the police be authorised to search for juvenile objects suspected of possession of weapons, if there are reasonable grounds for doing so. So you don't have to be able to search anyone, it has to be reasonable. The Minister of Justice has so far said no to the Advocate General and has reason to believe that such a search will be uncomfortable for some young people with dark skin colour, and that it may be contrary to Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights on the Right to Privacy, which is strange as long as the Customs Administration can demand that people dress naked without violating the same article. Is it really that the government wants to refuse the police to do their job effectively to prevent the use of weapons and knife use in Oslo, just because it can be uncomfortable for some people who are being investigated?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e250	The government does not want to reduce the effectiveness of the police in the fight against violence and the use of firearms. For a time, a tightening of the Arms Act was adopted, and that was also a step towards increasing control of the extensive possession of weapons in different environments in the Norwegian community. If the measures outlined here by Simonsen do not conflict with other important considerations, it is clear that we are willing to assess it. I do not think the Minister of Justice will be reluctant to do that either, but we have to make sure that in this case it happens in a way that does not appear discriminatory or is contrary to international conventions. I must have the opportunity to study something more closely. But as I said in my previous answer, we have to go into the crowds that contribute to the violence, in order to split them in this way and to prevent them.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e259	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e262	I want to ask the Prime Minister three concrete questions about the increasing use of violence in Oslo. There are issues that I have noticed that the Progress Party is little concerned about, so I think it is important to make them visible. Does the Prime Minister see that there may be a link between the opening hours at the points of entry and the possible prior closure of them in relation to achieving less violence, especially violence in the state of alcohol consumption? Furthermore, in relation to the Arms Act and the access to weapons — partly also unregistered weapons available in youth gangs: does the Prime Minister see that it can be a point to prevent the easy access to weapons as part of bringing down crime, in a society that has become colder, and where we see that youth gangs are formed, partly among immigrants, because they are outcast and are not accepted as part of Norwegian society? Sees the Prime Minister that there may be a link between increasing violence, among other things. among immigrants and, in part, the racist approach that politicians can also have in relation to immigrant groups, which makes them feel excluded in society?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e273	On the first question, my answer is unconditionally yes. In my view – which I also had in a line-up with Carl I. Hagen – there is a clear link between a liberal alcohol policy and violence, and the very liberal opening hours you have in Oslo, and the many appropriations that have been granted, increase alcohol abuse in the evening and night in Oslo. The police officer of Oslo has made it quite clear that this is a problem and that it is involved. With regard to the availability of weapons, as I said, changes to the Arms Act have taken place that would make this more restrictive. But it's clear that if you can also reveal that this is a problem, I'm willing to review it again. I also believe that immigration policy is important in view of the development of violence in Oslo. We need to integrate immigrants in a completely different and better way, so that they don't feel like groups that are somehow excluded from Norwegian society. It's a responsibility for them, and it's a responsibility for us.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e282	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e285	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Today, interest rates in Norway are about twice as high as in our neighbouring countries, and in order to reduce interest rates, the government has proposed a fiscal arrangement that tightens up about 9 billion kroner. The government parties here in Stortinget have now significantly weakened that contraction, reducing it from about 9 billion to well under 8 billion, and the government itself estimates that the contraction is being reduced from up to 1 pst. up to about 0,75 pst. of the national product. The Prime Minister justifies and argues for the deterioration that the Ministry of Finance has received new reports that suggest that a deterioration in fiscal policy is warranted, as the government parties now propose. What new reports have the Ministry of Finance received to suggest a weaker fiscal policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e291	The Government and the Ministry of Finance are continuously assessing economic developments. Some new information has emerged since the submission of the national budget, and it has been reported in the Ministry of Finance's monthly cyclical report for October. In particular, it shows that there is a significant uncertainty about economic development, including: related to wage developments, international conditions, exchange rates and interest rates. It also shows that we have had a reduction, for example. in the case of car sales and housing investments, which may be due to the high level of interest rates. The last — i.e. housing investment — affects the situation in construction. Therefore, the parties to the Government have considered it appropriate to reject the proposal for an cyclical tax. Overall, however, there is still a great deal of pressure in the Norwegian economy. It implies a tight fiscal policy – I also said that in the radio programme that Stoltenberg probably refers to – and the main objective is to bring down an excessive level of interest so that it does not get stuck when we have so low an oil price. In response to the Labour Party in the Financial Committee, the Ministry of Finance has said that the new information does not indicate any significant changes in the assessment of the Norwegian economy since the national budget was submitted. I agree. However, the situation in the Grand Duchy has shown that it is difficult to obtain a majority of the government budget as originally proposed. Therefore, the centre batches have submitted an adjusted proposal to try to find a solution. Providing the country with a responsible budget is an independent task which, if successful, will help stabilise the situation and trust in the Norwegian economy and reduce uncertainty. In view of this, I see it as right that the centre parties have put forward the proposals they have made. They've gone a long way to find a solution. My hope is that others too will stretch to get a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e298	I thank you for your answer. It is true that there are some signs in the Norwegian economy that show weaker developments than those envisaged in the national budget. But as the Prime Minister himself points out, there are signs that are primarily due to the high level of interest rates. And that's the high interest rates that we want to bring down, and then we can't take that into account. In addition, in the economic review published by the Ministry of Finance, there are many signs that there is at least as much need for tightening up now as in the past. Among other things, the growth in private consumption is clearly higher than assumed, the growth in imports is still very high, the labour market is still very tight and the exchange rate is still very weak. All of this implies at least as much tightening as in the past and does not imply the deterioration it has now brought about. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore whether he shares the Ministry of Finance's assessment that there have been no significant changes since the national budget was presented.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e305	As I said in my first answer, I shared the view that there was no reason to significantly change the assessments of economic development. But since the Workers' Party's Jens Stoltenberg is so concerned with the severity factor, there is also reason to put a critical search light on the Workers' Party's arrangements in this way. The Invention The Workers' Party has for its addition suggestions, means that they want to get cash support from families with children in the middle of a nursery year – a cash support they have based on. How realistic and responsible is this? Secondly, the Workers' Party's proposal proposes the introduction of a completely different tax regime for our shipping companies in November/December with effect for 1998. The Ministry of Finance says that it is hardly technically or practically possible. The working party also operates with a cut-off in cash. It does not affect the tightness of the budget, so I think Mr Stoltenberg should ask his members of the Financial Committee to go through the Labour Party's rigour in terms of rigour.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e310	Hill-Marta Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e313	I can assure the Prime Minister that many have gone through the budget of the Labour Party critically, among others. the Ministry of Finance has done so at the invitation of the Christian People's Party. That review concluded that the Workers' Party's alternative budget actually has a reduction of approximately NOK 9 billion. The Ministry of Finance has answered the Workers' Party's questions about the rigour, is that there are no significant changes that imply a strictness other than that of the national budget, of NOK 9 billion. Does it mean, then, that the Prime Minister defines a slight tightening of approximately SEK 1.3 billion, as in the adjusted scheme, as a slight change in the national budget? Does this also mean that the Prime Minister can imagine an even lower contraction in the economy to next year?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e318	No, the Prime Minister doesn't intend to add up to an even lower tightening, so this isn't the beginning of a slide, if that's what Solberg asked for. I have read the letter from the Ministry of Finance to the Workers' Party, and it is not quite as pink as the representative Hill-Marta Solberg now expressed. The Ministry of Finance shows what I said myself, that it is hardly technically or practically possible to make as fundamental a change in taxation towards an industry as proposed by the Workers' Party in the case of shipping companies. And if that can't be done, the Ministry of Finance writes that the tightening up of the Workers' Party's arrangements is about 0.8 pst., i.e. approx. $8 billion. In addition, the Workers' Party has to exercise the practice of exempting small children's parents from cash support in the middle of a nursery year, as the representative Hill-Marta Solberg himself has said earlier that there may be concerns. In addition, the daily allowance is cut, which does not have a tightening effect, and the Workers' Party has proposed only about half of what is needed to increase the yard support to 9 pst, as the Workers' Party enters.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e325	Per-Kristian Foss – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e328	In order to prevent the Prime Minister from responding to the request from the Right, I can only state that our severity effect after the figures entered in the submission of the suspension and after the last response from the Government is stronger than the original arrangement of the Government and the adjusted arrangement. But my question therefore concerns the Prime Minister’s own statements – if it is possible to get an answer to that question. The Prime Minister has stated on the radio that he has been informed of the latest reports that have been received and that it is possible to make a minor adjustment to the arrangement – i.e. a minor tightening. I have read the answer from the Minister of Finance. That answer does not explain any reports that warrant this, rather on the contrary. I would ask the Prime Minister to be concrete and say what reports he refers to that gives him the basis for drawing a different conclusion from that of the Minister of Finance. He himself quoted it, namely that there are no significant changes in the assessment of the Norwegian economy since the national budget. The Prime Minister then said that the severity effect should be NOK 9 billion. Now he means something else. What is the basis for this? The report is unknown.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e335	I'm not hiding that we'd rather have seen that the tightness could have been maintained at NOK 9 billion. I agree with the representative Foss that there is no report that, in isolation, suggests that it is desirable to weaken it. But a government or government party also has a responsibility to contribute to the adoption of a budget. This in itself can have such a positive effect on the confidence in the Norwegian economy that it more than offsets the reduced tightening. And with those things in context, I think this is proper. I'm going to be happy to study the Right-Last Constitution for the State Budget. Because according to the answer given by the Ministry of Finance on the Right, it ends with a decrease of 1.1 billion compared to the Government’s proposal in the Yellow Book — that is, 0.75 pst. tightening and not 1 pst. But if the Right has changed its final phase arrangement or got the Ministry of Finance's word that they have a 9 billion curtailment, I'm going to study it with interest.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e342	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e345	It is interesting to hear that there are no reports to show that there is a need to tighten up, as the Prime Minister has previously referred to. My starting point is that we have always known that the tightening that the government proposed, and that was so important, was too strong; that means that when the government now tightens a little less, it's positive, because it could mean less unemployment. But it is not particularly credible when the Prime Minister refers to reports that do not exist. The reports that probably show what the Prime Minister wants to say were already known at the time of the presentation of the State budget. There were two things about the government's presentation that were important to the government. There was a budget tightening of 9 billion, and it was getting a quick clearance of the budget in Stortinget. None of the things we can say that the government has done very well. My question to the Prime Minister is this: first, we should think of the number 9 billion that had been taken from what I know – at least 9 billion were tightened. Now we're going to think about a new number that's seven point something, and that's obviously the right number to get a fiscal tightening. Is there any reason to believe that the Prime Minister will stand on that number, and is there any reason to believe that the Government will actually put its position on it, or will it be likely that in the next round you will be able to get a budget that has even less rigour? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e355	The President asks the representative, Mr Djupedal, to stick to the timetable.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e358	In my first answer to questions about rigour, I referred to the Ministry of Finance's cyclical report for October. What it emphasises in the first place is the uncertainty of the economic development associated with several factors: international conditions, oil prices that appear to be persistently low, wage developments, crown prices and interest rates. That is why there is an important point in itself, whether the Storting can help to reduce that uncertainty, and it can best do so by adopting a budget as quickly as possible. Therefore, government parties have sought to meet other parties in order to adopt a budget if possible. That's why we've also felt good about that reduction in tightening up. But it still has to be a tight budget, I have underlined that. The business cycle reports also show in isolation that there may be slightly less pressure in the construction industry, so we have found it appropriate to propose that the business cycle tax should not be imposed. This is not the beginning of a slide against a weaker tightness.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e363	Ranveig Frøiland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e366	I note that the Prime Minister has agreed with the Minister of Finance that nothing has happened since the government budget was presented to cause significant changes in the rigour. The reports to which the Prime Minister has referred also show that there are no significant changes. The Prime Minister actually confirmed. So my question is, when a now also refers to the situation in Stortinget, what situation in Stortinget is it that causes less rigor? Both from the Labour Party and from the Right's side, it's clear that there's a need for tightness in the size of 9 billion kroner, and the center government has added up to it. Then the situation in the Storting is so that the parties representing the Government do not detect that rigor, and then they present a new adjusted scheme that shows less rigour. Now the Prime Minister has to decide. Is that the tightness that the center part has put in now, that's right, or is it 9 billion?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e373	The situation in the Grand Duchy shows first of all that it has not been possible to obtain a majority of the Government's budget as originally presented. We have, like previous governments, been willing to extend to get a solution. It is in itself important to reduce uncertainty. We must note that there has not been a similar willingness on the part of other parties to extend. But of course, we still hope for the longest. So Ranveig Frøiland says that the Workers' Party and the Right believe it must be a 9 billion tightening. But does the representative of Frøiland really believe – now I have to ask back – that this should be done by taking out people's cash support in the middle of a kindergarten year, changing a shipping tax at the end of the year with effect for the current year – which is hardly technically or practically feasible? That's why I think there's reason to look at the tightness of several budget lines.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e380	The Prime Minister is asking me...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e385	The President must refer to the regulations, even if the question then has to hang in the air. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e390	I have a question for the Prime Minister: When Thorbjørn Jagland took over after Gro two years ago, he was one of the more popular prime ministers in Norwegian history. In a single year he was driven into a political game and almost ended up as a washcloth as a result of an overcritical opposition and a critical press. When Prime Minister Bondevik took over, he was even the most popular prime minister ever in the history of our country. He has now been through exactly the same process, and we see this pictured in the newspaper today. Now it is Thorbjørn Jagland that appears ostrich of self-confidence with glimpses in the eye, even in colors, while Bondevik on the side of it is produced as a little grimet troll inside the darkness. I think these processes are dangerous, because they make the prime minister, and those in the government of Norway, never put any long-term plans, but they are constantly being driven into a political game where it's all about surviving from day to day. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he has any thoughts about how we can get out of this in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e397	The President will ask Solheim's representative to stick to both a language that is suitable here, and also to the time frame, and will suggest that a little less time spent on washcloths will provide a better room for questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e400	I will also allow myself to distance myself from the expression that Thorbjørn Jagland ended up as a washcloth last fall. I thought that was too disrespectful. But Erik Solheim is concerned about something important: what we can do to create greater long-term policy. And it's a question I want to take deeply seriously, because the media are faithless friends, and we can't control after gallup. What surprises me about the media is how they go in a pack. If someone's made up their mind, the media are exactly the same -- just look at today's newspapers. So we can't control it. The pictures they take, and of course they use to illustrate their articles, we can't be guided by them either. Neither can we be guided by gallupes, whether it's partiality or popularity measurements. I think that as politicians and maybe also with respect to reporting the media, we should think in a little bit longer lines. I think the only way we can get out of this is that we politicians show the will to discuss more fully the fundamental issues: the environmental and resource crisis, globalisation, technological development and what it does to us, the materialism that has spread also in our society. What we need is a real fundamental value debate. And then we get to keep it, even though it doesn't always give the big headlines in the media. They're refugees from day to day, so they're faithless friends, whether it's one prime minister or another.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e409	I'm not primarily looking for a media debate, because the media we sit here have very little hand. On the other hand, we have a little more hand in reducing the political game in such a way that the media can't keep digging into political games, but have to refer to some of the important issues the Prime Minister is now drawing up. But when we let ourselves drift into a situation where we have an extremely weak government, which gets no other starting point than to survive from day to day, there won't be any room to discuss the long-term questions. Let me mention two structural issues that would solve some of these problems, and I would like the Prime Minister's comment. It is obvious that a majority government that can count on a long-term outlook in relation to the Storting is in a completely different situation when it comes to making long-term plans and raising the kind of debate the Prime Minister mentions, than a very weak minority government like the one we now have. And besides, when we allow ourselves to drift into a situation that is unique across Europe, where the party that is on the absolute extreme right wing has decisive influence in politics, we are also in a very special situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e417	I have never concealed that there are great advantages to a majority government. I myself have been in both majority and minority governments, and in this way I have experience with both. A majority government, as the party policy pattern is in Norway, will have to contain greater tensions within the government, but of course it will have greater opportunities in the UK once it comes to a policy. A minority government has the advantage that there is greater conformity or less tension within the government, but it has bigger problems in the Storting. As far as I can see, there is no majority government option in Norway today. That's why we have to rely on minority options. That's the situation. In that situation, I believe that a central government is the one with the greatest freedom of action to obtain support from various parties, which this government has also done for the first year.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e426	Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e429	I don't know if the sitting government is an example of a minority government with less tensions, but now let it go. My question to follow up on Solheim's question is that I share the concern Solheim has for respect for politics and political action. I wonder if the Prime Minister has any thoughts that perhaps too much promises, that one creates a picture that it is possible to give billions of dollars to the municipalities, billions of dollars to the roads, that one uses individual issues in refugee policy in a cynical game to get himself upset, and then has to go from all the promises, perhaps to create the popularity waves that go high and far down and lead to a lack of respect for politics, and whether the Prime Minister himself may have contributed to it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e436	If Trond Giske now meant involvement in single asylum cases, I'll take a sharp distance from Trond Giske's problem. I've never used such things in a cynical game. What I've done, I've made up of an honest commitment to the people it was about, and I actually thought Trond Giske had a similar commitment. The government has softened refugee and asylum policy. I understand that it has received Trond Giske's agreement, so it surprises me how he uses this case. It is important and right that the parties do not give too much promises that require financial settlements. Now we have an economic situation that is more difficult than we could predict, because of international conditions. This makes the government parties unable to implement what we described, at the rate we had foreseen. But the Waxenås statement we made is a four-year statement, and we're going to do what we can to get as far as we can to realize it if we get the chance over the four-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e445	Inge Myrvoll – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e448	It doesn't look like it's in minority government is any special guarantee against tensions in the government. When I've followed this central government, I've thought that it's getting no closer to Paradise than a good necrologist – and now it seems to be too late too. For what has happened to the center profile, except for a comprehensive value committee and cash support with many minus pages – when you think about everything they would do to bring democracy up, the local maritime administration? The only maritime government you see now is they're starting to discuss if they're going to put their jobs down. It's also a kind of maritime governance, seafaringly. The Waxenås statement that I was reading last night focuses on how to manage the market, and you have a lot of critical and good comments, but now we feel that the only signal you get is that maybe Telenor and Arcus should be on the market soon, and that there will be various privatisations. In other words, the opposite signals are what you expect. What is the central profile and what has become different in this country than when we had a labor party government, which some of the center parties criticised for being too market-oriented?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e455	The central government made a political account of what we've done in the first year on its one-year anniversary, and it's an account that I actually have a good conscience for. It shows that this government has done a lot in a year compared to what we suggested in the Adult Declaration. I would recommend it for further reading by the representative Myrvoll, for it is limited what I can now bring with me. But it shows that we've given the minimum pensioners a raise of $1,000 more per. a month, we have put in a district policy offensive – a further 620 million. In the 1999 draft state budget - to try to slow down the trend of centralisation and in the hope of turning it back - we have presented the Workers' Party's failure in its many years of government, namely a debt cancellation plan for developing countries that has attracted international positive attention, we have implemented a different family policy with greater freedom of choice for young children's parents, and we have put more emphasis on voluntary organisations and prevention work. Now it's time, but this only shows some of the course conversion we've done.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e460	There will be follow-up questions – Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e463	I would like to return to what the Prime Minister said about the need for stability and predictability of framework conditions. Does the Prime Minister agree that it is up to both government and magnificence, and therefore, for example, when a long-term defence plan is drawn up on 8 June this year, and so dramatically does not follow it up in the budget, is it the responsibility of the politicians or the Government not to have predictability? The same applies to the reimbursement scheme for seafarers, which seems to have a half-year duration because batches change perception. Could the Prime Minister also agree to undertake a reform of our budgetary system, so that any changes in the law, which we now have a lot to deal with in the context of the State budget, are separated in time from the state budget to take place in the spring, so that the state budget treatment was exclusively concerned with the determination of the different rates? We could possibly also create a system where all changes to the tax laws were made only once every four years — once every period — so that business and others knew that there was at least a four-year period when they could know what the laws and regulations were in the important economic area such as taxes and taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e470	I agree with Carl I. Hagen that predictability is important, and that of course it is a responsibility both for the Government and for the parties on the Stortinget. In the case of the two concrete examples mentioned by Hagen first, we openly acknowledge that when we were going to submit a proposal for a government budget with a tightening of about 1 pst, we had to do some things that were both unpopular and that meant that we could not follow up some areas of investment at the same pace as planned, among other things. the long-term defence plan. In this respect, and in the case of the reimbursement scheme for seafarers, which was the second case specifically referred to by Hagen, the government parties have in order to meet their views, inter alia. by the Hagen Party, proposed increases in relation to the Government’s proposal in the revised budget line entered in the Financial Committee. I would doubt that no changes in tax laws can be made more than once every four years, because it is such an important part of the budget that if you are to dissociate yourself from the possibility of making adjustments there, a government becomes the paralytic of action.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e479	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e483	I do not want to ask questions to the Prime Minister, but to the Minister of Social Affairs. In fact, in recent years in Norway, a number of new records have been set in the negative direction of overdose deaths. On the basis of this, The size of the State budget for 1998 under Chapter 2. 614, heading 63, granted 29 million. In addition, the revised national budget has granted DKK 10 million for the methadone project this year. In view of this, I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs: what about this methadone project around, and how many have now come under this kind of aid measure in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e492	The establishment of a nationwide provision of methadone-assisted rehabilitation takes time to proceed in a qualitatively safe manner. I can now report that the start-up of the centre in Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim is on route, i.e. one in Oslo is well established and has subsequently added the professionals needed to expand the business. It is a co-operation between Telemark, Buskerud and Vestfold that will be ready for client intake in January 1999. Also East Agder and West Agder will have room for those who are involved from these states. I myself was in Bergen a couple of weeks ago and attended the opening of a methadone clinic there. At the beginning of 1999, it is about 200 clients want to be able to participate in the methadone project, and most of them have room in Oslo. At the end of 1999, an additional 150 are expected to have space. It is an important requirement that an action plan drawn up by the municipality to which the individual belongs, with the agreement of the person for whom it is applicable, is for the individual to participate in such treatment. That's why it takes time to get that right in place.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e499	We have now spent a reasonable amount of time and money on both organizing and facilitating these offers. In the meantime, people die in the street because you don't get an offer. Does not the Minister of Social Affairs think that action must be taken and progressed in this? The desire to be able to use this methadone treatment system to have a normal way of life is great, and the timing is enormous. Will the Minister of Social Affairs intervene, so that we may be able to break the trend we see with overdose deaths and break family ties around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e504	I am very busy with what happens when overdose deaths occur both in Oslo and elsewhere in the country. It's tragic for each and every one of these things, because they're touching around and for the whole environment. But I think it's important to stress that methadone-assisted rehabilitation is a supply that only a few of the most heavily addicted drug users have to go. It is not a magic agent that will remove all overdose deaths. Here, broad measures are needed far beyond that. Let me draw attention to the great work being done today before the use of drugs in Oslo and in other municipalities in cooperation with voluntary organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e509	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e512	In the past, the Prime Minister has shown in this issue that ideally, the tightness of the government's budget, with DKK 9 billion, should have been maintained. However, he has found that, as a result of political treatment in the United Kingdom, the government parties in the United Kingdom have found it appropriate to present a budget with a different rigour. Doesn't that give a picture that the government and the government's parties here in the Storting have put their hands in the weather and found that we're not really doing what we should have done, keeping tight in the budget, because we're not able to achieve a tightening that's in line with the challenges that this country is facing. Is there not a recognition of an inadequacy in relation to the challenges described by the Government itself and in relation to what the Prime Minister of today's Question Time has stood firm by should have been the result of the budgetary procedure?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e517	No, I don't mean it, because what the situation above all shows is a great uncertainty about economic development. All that can help stabilise the situation and reduce uncertainty is now important and desirable to contribute to it. In view of this, I believe that, as the Minister of Finance has also replied in a letter to the Committee, the structure of the central parties has been presented is sound. We had hoped for greater goodwill and acceptance from other parties on the Stortinget, so that one could get a faster budget solution. This is of course a responsibility for the Government and government parties, but it is also a responsibility for the opposition in a situation of minority rule. We must note that so far we have not met enough understanding that we have a clear budgetary situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e522	If there is anything the Government has agreed to and is in agreement with in this budget, it is exactly the level of rigour that the Government has described as necessary. At the same time, there is the level of government leaving when it's going to try to find a solution that it wants to congregate. There is broad consensus in the Storting about the need for a tightening in the order of magnitude described by the Government. But does this not give a picture that the Government is playing out a situation and then wag away when the challenges become too difficult, in the same way that we have seen in the promise policy? Several other speakers today have referred to the promises made both by the Government before the elections, cf. inter alia: the road plan, and after the choice, as follows. inter alia: The long-term plan for the defence, but when they were to be put into active policy, they grew back because they were unable to find a way to follow up the promises they had made.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e527	The government is not evading, and government parties have proposed new cuts and ways to cover up expenses to meet the opposition's wishes for increased efforts in some areas. Prior to this, we also had a rather tough budget proposal with a reduction of DKK 9 billion, 5 billion on spending cuts, and 4 billion on income growth. But we have not been able to go into part of the discovery proposals that, among other things, The working party has been presented. We don't think it's wise to turn into a completely new company tax regime at the end of a year when you're going to have predictability. We don't think a person can take from a child's parents cash support in the middle of a kindergarten year, etc. Therefore, one can not just go on the containment proposals that the opposition has come to, without assessing their durability. All in all, we believe that the arrangement put forward by the centre parties is sound.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e532	There will be follow-up questions from Per-Christian Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e535	I am pleased that the Prime Minister now confirms that Dagbladet is right when it writes today: ‘The truth is that no one in the department knows what reports Bondevik is aiming for...’ Bondevik also said in a previous answer that it is the ‘situation in the Stortinget’ that suggests that a slightly less tight budget has now been in place than the Government thought was an overall objective originally. I want to ask questions as to whether this is not a misunderstanding, if not the Prime Minister meant the situation in the Government, because it is the situation in the Government that has made it impossible to accept any of the many cuts that have been made. For the sake of order: I am not now talking about the Workers' Party, I am talking about the situation in the Right and the Advance Party, which has individually submitted proposals on cuts in the order of 10 billion kroner – 30 billion kroner. Very few of these have been told by the government that they have been able to enter the Storting. For the sake of order, I would just like to draw the Prime Minister's attention to the fact that if he now intends to ask questions to me, I have no opportunity to answer!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e551	I'm not going to ask the representative Foss. But when he and others go to work so critically against the budget lines of the central parties, he has to bear in mind that a critical search light is also directed towards the Right Budgetary Arrangement. This includes, inter alia: to set aside parts of an agricultural agreement – it writes Right itself in its budget line – but unfortunately we cannot do so. The right has also proposed in the case of sick pay and a couple of other schemes, so far as we can judge it, is contrary to collective bargaining agreements and is therefore a very doubtful discovery. So that's not the situation in the government, but that's the situation in the Storting and part of the discovery proposals that, among other things, The right has come with us, which we do not consider sound.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e558	The time for the oral Question Time is now over, and we're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e563	There will be a wide range of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 6, from the representative Inge Myrvoll to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development and Human Rights on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been removed. Question No 9, by the representative Tore Nordtun to the Minister for Finance, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 10, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him. At the request of the Minister of Health, this question is moved and answered in front of question 21, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 26, from the representative of Trond Helleland to the Minister for Oil and Energy, has been transferred to the Minister for the Environment who is directing him. However, the question has to be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has a disease history. Question 27, from the representative of Ågot Valle to the Minister for Development and Human Rights, is moved and answered by the Minister for Development and Human Rights, at the request of the Minister for Human Rights and Development, in response to question 6, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 28, from the representative Erik Solheim to the Minister for Development and Human Rights, has been withdrawn. Question 29, from Mr Stensaker's representative to the Minister for the Environment, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has a disease incident.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e587	I would like to ask the Prime Minister the following questions: «I St.meld. No 11 justifies its refusal to cooperate with Sweden on shooting grounds for emergency and security policy considerations and ‘does not consider it appropriate’ to make Norwegian defence dependent on the territory of a foreign country. [[1998-99]] In the Nordic Council of 11 November 1998, the Council of State Queseth Haarstad states that ‘it would have to be possible for these two countries, although we have different links with NATO, to use common training fields’. Is it the Minister of Defence – or the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs who stands for the views of the Government?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e596	The defence's work on investigating a major field of fire and training for departments in the Eastern region is no new cause. As early as March 1994, the investigation programme provided for by the Planning and Building Act was established. This did not include the investigation of fields abroad, as the defence did not consider this to be a current solution. However, while the investigation was under way, the question of the use of the Swedish defence artillery field – Älvdalen firefield in Dalarne – was raised in the public debate. The defence's view of such a solution was referred to the Stortinget in connection with the representative Hernæs' question in the Questionnaire on 6 March 1996. The current Minister of Defence, Jørgen Kosmo, then stated that although the Älvdalen field initially appeared to be more than large enough, there were doubts about the capacity of the field to meet both the Swedish and Norwegian needs within the same timeframe, since the defences of the two countries have developed about the same pattern for the liquidation of major exercises. It was also clarified that the Norwegian defence had to have its own capacity for training and training of its own personnel. The representative Hernæs then re-opened the question of whether the Norwegian authorities would address Sweden on the joint use of the Älvdalen shooting range in the Questionnaire on 21 May 1997. The Kosmo Council of State then pointed to an interpellation in the Swedish Riksdag on 22 April 1997, where Minister of Defence Bjørn von Sydow had stated that it was a principle Swedish position that foreign troops were not allowed in Swedish territory. A number of issues related to the environment and emission concessions were also open, so that the matter had not been resolved in any way by the Swedish side. In its reply, the Kosmo State Council also referred to the fact that the long transport distances resulted in significant extra transport costs and an unacceptable loss of exercise time. Although the use of Älvdalen by the defense was not part of the impact investigations that were carried out, it is in St. gemeld. No 11 for 1998-99, Regional Shooting and Training Field for Defence Departments in the East – Region Field of the East, presented the assessments on the basis of which the Defence Department does not consider the use of the Älvdalen as an appropriate solution. I am also familiar with the fact that the Swedish Council of State, Fjærvoll, had contact with its Swedish colleague in connection with the work on the Storing Message, and after discussing the matter, these two experts agreed that cooperation on the use of the Älvdalen was not appropriate for any of the parties. The entire Government supports the wording of the Storing Communication that ‘other national solutions’ need to be investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e612	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his answer. In order not to fool this any more, I will notice the answer literally and directly as the Prime Minister said. Then I'm just going to leave it standing as a pointed question mark how the municipality minister could stand in Stortinget in connection with the Nordic Council and say on questions about possible coordination with Sweden that she would have liked to have seen that one could practice together. And then she adds the following: ‘Then we have to go to the Swedish Minister and the Swedish Government to see if there is a solution that may be relevant in the future.’ So, after the government has justified the fact that, for reasons of Norwegian security, it is not possible to exercise together, one of the government's government councils goes out and says that it is the Swedish government that literally has to decide whether this can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e627	I basically have nothing more to add than that the government's view of course is reflected in the big message. There we have explained that we believe that there are other national solutions that need to be investigated, not Swedish ones.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e632	I don't have much to add either. I would like to thank you again for your answer. It's going to be equally satisfying every time. But since so much respect became my ring person part of a previous sequence in this questionnaire, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to return respect.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e640	I would like to ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: ‘In the Storting last year, it was underlined that the Government must look at the framework conditions of the newspapers, so that we do not have a comprehensive newspaper death. It was promised to coordinate this in such a way that every government council responsible for different framework conditions would also have the same overall impact, so that the government's policy would not have any adverse consequences. Now we see that the newspapers are once again getting their frames worse, among other things, through further postage increases. Is the Government pursuing a deliberate policy to weaken the newspapers, or is this due to a lack of coordination?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e649	I see, of course, a clear need for all the policy areas of the Government which are relevant to the framework conditions of the press to be seen in the context. I'm sure the representative is familiar with this. Having said that, I would like to point out that in the report on the press support submitted in January of this year, State consultant concluded that the state press support today meets very precisely the newspapers that need support. This shows in my view that the government's press policy actually takes into account all the framework conditions that help to determine the economic situation of the newspapers. With regard in particular to the question of avisporto, I would like to point out that the responsibility for all postage rates except A-post today has been delegated to the Post Office. The new Posten’s governance system makes it possible for rates to be controlled to a limited extent politically. Despite this, I can show that the post office, among others. Following enquiries from the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Culture, it has decided to allow the small rural newspapers to keep avisporto instead of having to pay postage in the same way as weekly newspapers. This is a concrete example of such coordination that I perceive Alstad is calling for. In this context, I can also mention that in its 1999 draft budget, the Government has taken steps to increase the production grant for newspapers by 6.45 million. kr in relation to the 1998 budget. I believe that it is absolutely necessary to focus on the interests of the press when considering other issues that have a significant impact on the framework conditions of the newspapers, and will, as far as I can, contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e662	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is good to hear that there has been coordination in certain areas, which in turn gives good results to the newspapers. The State Consultant report to which the Council of State referred, which was also presented in spring on the basis of a survey carried out in the previous year, shows that the press support meets very well. But when the level of it is adjusted down, e.g. by cutting the press support, as the government was in on last year, that newspaper does not help so much more. The cuts also hit pretty well. Press support has increased this year, the Council of State has pointed out. It might be interesting to hear if you expect it to be put at a level of 15 million in the longer term. kr below the level of the previous year. This will at least cause some newspapers to have problems, because in the middle of the press support cuts, there is also a trend in the decline of the advertising market and localisations are losing ground. And the government parties are alarmingly little principleal about VAT issues, so for that reason I'm not completely reassured about the future of the papers.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e669	I believe that the representative Alstad and I are very much in agreement with the description of the challenges we are facing in maintaining a diverse and differentiated press, and really the challenges associated with the market thinking that is taking place in all areas of society and that make global thinking more difficult. That's why it's important to look at the press support systems and make sure they meet where we want them to meet, and as Alstad knows, it's the nationwide, meaningful newspapers, it's the small locals, and it's no. The two papers. When it comes to ad loss and other challenges that the press is affected by, I am aware of it. We can't guarantee that there's no change, but my goal is at least to try to maintain a differentiated and diverse press pattern like what we have today, which is unique in an international context.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e679	I would like to ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘The Minister of State of the United Nations stated on 4 November 1998 that it may be appropriate to consider whether men should withdraw part of the cash support. As you know, this scheme will help undermine rights granted to fathers in recent years, pushing them away from the care role and back to the carer’s role. Will the Council of State contribute to an overview of developments by the Prime Minister so that a «feder quota» can also be introduced into the cash support?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e688	There have been many positive feedbacks from the Human Roles Conference ‘New Times — New Men?’, which the Prime Minister and I arranged. The conference underlined the need for a new search light on several sides of the human role. Appointed from the Prime Minister, whom Alstad drew, was given after this conference, and I would like to give the answer the Prime Minister gave to the Nations on November 4, to give a more comprehensive picture: «It will be difficult to attach conditions to cash support, but we will evaluate the cash support. If the evaluation shows that it is used by women, it may be appropriate to consider whether men should take part in the time.’» Cash support is not a permit scheme. Cash support is a cash transfer to families who do not – or only partially – use kindergarten for their children. One of the parents is not required to be home. Therefore, such arrangements are not relevant to a spring quota in cash after the model of the spring quota in the birth permit. Although it is not a condition for cash support that one of the parents is at home, it is a goal of the scheme that it should help to make small children’s parents spend more time on care. The government wants and hopes that both women and men will benefit from the need for cash support to reduce working hours or be home all the time for a period of time to care for their children. The representative Alstad claims that the cash support will push the fathers away from the care role. I'm wondering how Alstad can draw such fantastic conclusions. Cash support represents a new option for small children's families, and we know little about the impact of the scheme on how families actually organise child care. I expect that there will initially be more women than men working less because of the cash support. All schemes that make it possible to spend more time with children are currently most useful to women. Only 12.7 pst. — in 1997 — by men, the proportion of maternity leave is higher than that of the parental quota. A study carried out by the Statistical Central Bureau shows that only 7.5 pst. by those who asked that Father would work less than now or be home all the time when the family would receive cash support. The investigation was carried out at a time when the cash support schemes had not yet been adopted by the Stortinget. So the number doesn't say much about how families will align when they get to the piece. The experience of maternity leave shows that fathers are more and more involved in caring for the child’s first year of life. The increase has come gradually over time, and I believe we will see that several fathers will work less out, too, while the children are between one and two years old. We will follow developments closely in the form of statistics, research and evaluation. Among other things, we want to emphasise the impact of cash support on the participation of mothers and fathers and on the sharing of tasks in the world. If the evaluation was to show that young children’s parents do not spend more time caring for their own children who are receiving cash support or that the scheme reinforces the differences between mothers and fathers in care and participation, we need to consider this. It's too early to wonder what can be done in that case. When the research results and the overview of the developments come to me, I will, of course, ensure that the Prime Minister gets the same knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e706	There are certain things in this society that we don't need to research and investigate in order to be able to say what development is like. One of the reasons for this is the results of the arrangements for cash support in relation to the participation of fathers. The one month set aside today and used by nearly 80 pst. by the fathers, will be put under pressure when the cash support is selected. And it's not being selected by the fathers, I think we can establish that already now. It took three years for us to start changing a rather ingrained family pattern, until we were able to get it through. It went very fast, but it was because the fathers wanted to take a greater responsibility at home. The policy put forward now when cash support will not even be given priority to fathers will mean that a stop to changes in the family pattern and push fathers back to the carer’s role and overtime use that young children have today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e713	Some of the things I wonder about in the debate that we have now had over a longer period of time about cash support are how those who are opponents of cash support so clearly know – and claim – that women are being pushed here and there and men are being pushed here and there. Don't men and women have the will themselves? As the representative Alstad said in his supplementary question to me – or perhaps more ‘additional claim’ – there was a change in the behaviour of the fathers because they themselves want to be more home and take a greater share of the task, while at the same time getting their own birth rate. I actually think fathers want to spend more time on their children. So now we're giving greater freedom of choice, and it's up to parents, of course, to choose who's going to take that time. Of course, much else is involved and affects the choices that parents make. It's on leave, it's on pay, it's on pay, it's on a lot more. This is a relationship that we also of course want to follow closely, for such things I believe will actually have a greater impact by giving greater choice to parents.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e722	Those who have followed the development of gender equality from the early 1970s and the changes it has brought about in the family will see some patterns, including: that if we, as fathers, are to have the opportunity to come in and have a greater share of responsibility, it must be better facilitated. For freedom of choice is not there today. It wasn't for the girls in the early 1970s when they wanted to enter the areas of the men, it's not for the men today when they want to enter the areas of the women's people. There was one thing I noticed in the Council's response that was positive, and it was that she wanted to follow developments closely in the form of research. And if there was anything this conference revealed, it was that in that area we're too bad. We don't know what men think, we don't know what men do, and we don't know what it is that affects the development of neither the human role nor the feather role. And then I expect as a follow-up to this that the Council of State will take the initiative that we get to know more.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e729	With all due respect for the questioner, I actually believe that I have followed the gender equality debate and the developments of the 1970s and beyond as closely as the questioner. Only because of the age and because of the commitment I have had in politics in all these years, I have had better opportunities to follow it quite carefully. The analysis that the representative had is quite correct. More needs to be done to get the fathers out of their dishes as well. When it comes to human research, we also want to give priority to this. That's why I'm at least happy that, at the Nordic level, we have planned a research position to coordinate all the human research in the Nordic region, and then we get back to how to finance more direct human research at the Norwegian level, which I absolutely want us to give priority.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e739	I have a question for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘I have become aware that Class TF1F at the Nordland Fisheries School at Gravdal has been in contact with the Maritime Directorate for the purpose of obtaining answers to some questions regarding guidelines on which certificates they can issue after the end of the school year. It hasn't yet, two months after school starts, they have managed to get clear answers. A minimum requirement when a training is started must be that the guidelines are clear. Are there such guidelines and, if not, when are they intended to be available?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e748	As a result of Reform 94, technical colleges are set to go over a period of two years. On 10 June 1998 the Directorate for Maritime Affairs granted provisional approval to the Ministry of Education and Research's curriculum for technical vocational schools. The curriculum provides, among other things: guidelines for the admission and conduct of the study as well as guidelines for the certificates which can be redeemed after two years of training. The guidelines are made known to the current post-secondary schools. After today's scheme, students must complete and complete all subjects in two-year technical colleges and have practical time to resolve certificates. Today's scheme does not allow for the issue of certificates after only one school year. The new curriculum will be evaluated after a period. The Directorate for Maritime Affairs will then give its final approval to the Ministry of Education, Education and Research's technical college curriculum. The Maritime Directorate has also informed me that the principal of the Nordland Fisheries School at Gravdal received an oral reply to an enquiry in the case on 30 October 1998.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e761	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was interesting to note that the principal received a reply on 30 October. That's something. Today it's November 18th, so there's only a few days since he got the answer, and that's a result of the question that the students have raised. These are grown people, not kids. It is obvious that a minimum must be that they know what kind of certificate they can issue when they finish school. Of course, it is a prerequisite that they exist and that they have the necessary seagoing service. It's almost close to asking: isn't there a form for this too?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e768	There is no doubt about which guidelines apply. The guidelines are set out in the provisionally approved two-year school curriculum. The students know that very well when they apply. At least they should know that by getting involved in the curriculum, and of course the school management knows that. It takes two years of education and passed in every subject, as I said in my reply, to obtain certificates. There's never been any doubt about that. What must apply if one does not complete two years or is in all trades is a different situation. When the formal requirements have not been met, the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs must assess on a case-by-case basis whether the requirements of the certificate can be demonstrated by other means. It will be an ordinary review procedure. But there is no doubt that the guidelines that apply are laid down in the curriculum, and they are known at school.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e775	I thank you again for the answer and found that there was no form for this either. But I have not received an answer to the question, because the question goes on: What certificates do you get? Obviously, you get some kind of certificate. But what kind of validity is there on the certificate? So for the sake of simplicity, what big boat are you allowed to drive when you're finished with your two-year-old school?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e780	I think some of these issues must be based on a misunderstanding somewhere. There is no doubt that completing this two-year school course meets the formal competence to obtain a certificate for masters and co-pilots, so-called deck officer certificate Class 4 and a certificate for ship engineer officers, an engineer officer certificate Class 4. Higher licence ratings may only be reprocessed during seagoing service, with which the representative of Bastisen is certainly familiar. Some of the issue has been whether you can process the right to a certificate without completing the school, as presented in the curriculum, and as I know there has been a lot of questioning around. This issue must only be dealt with individually, each of which must demonstrate that the requirements required to process the right to a certificate are met, and this must then be dealt with by the Directorate for Maritime Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e790	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘Does the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade consider that Norwegian municipalities should be able to remove general prohibitions on the establishment of new offers in certain economic areas, for example by capping the number of enterprises/sales units in a local industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e797	Municipalities can only raise the number of enterprises/sales units within a branch when it is statutory. This applies only exceptionally, such as: alcohol law. As a general rule, land plans and control plans according to the Law on Planning and Building provide only for the disposal of land for commercial purposes, residential areas, free areas, etc. However, when the municipality itself owns the land, they can contribute to the exploitation by deciding to whom the land is sold. I do not think Norwegian municipalities should be able to set a ceiling on the number of enterprises/sales units within a branch of the municipality. This could affect the competitive situation and, in some cases, it could even lead to the establishment of market players with an excessive monopoly position. I think the municipalities should work actively to facilitate business development. This is important for the expansion and creation of existing enterprises. Active organization is a prerequisite for a viable business life and thus a viable society.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e808	I want to thank the Minister for a positive and clear answer to the question. The background to my question is that the municipality of Bergen is currently consulting a question about establishing a roof in connection with the establishment of gas stations. But as I understand the Council of State's answer, you really don't have a legal basis to establish this kind of roof, which means that to get permission to set up a new gas station somewhere, another has to go concede, mostly. I am pleased that the Council of State also has prima facie assessments relating to the question that municipalities should actually facilitate business rather than regulate it away. My small follow-up question will be: will it be possible to incorporate such general assessments into a regulatory plan, or will the regulatory plans also be able to deal only with the actual physical problems associated with the individual business setting up? Or can there be any premise within a regulatory plan that could result in a capping without it being adopted in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e819	It is my opinion, which I fully understand is shared by the questioner here, that the rules of the Planning and Building Act in this area can be used to regulate and determine the relatively rough purpose of the use of land, for example. ground area. Besides that, you can't decide more in detail. Now, municipalities very often also own land. Then you'll probably have a much greater opportunity to decide who is going to buy the land. And you can sell for a particular purpose, as we know it in other issues that are raised, that are for treatment in the Storting. But that's not the law for, as I judge it, and as the department estimates it, using the Planning and Building Act in some way to limit the number of gas stations.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e829	This question, addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is answered by the Minister for Development and Human Rights on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e832	I have asked a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but I think it is excellent that it is the Minister for Human Rights who answers it: ‘10. December 1998 is 50 years since the UN adopted the Declaration of Human Rights. The conditions of human rights are the key international issues that exist in most other areas of society. Norway has a special role in distributing the Nobel Peace Prize. Will the Government consider introducing 10 December as an official flag day?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e841	As announced, I answer the question on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has received several enquiries in the last few months proposing to make the Day of Human Rights a permanent official flag day on 10 December and the proposal has been evaluated. Personally, I have great sympathy for the proposal. However, different considerations make it not unproblematic. Norway already has quite a large number of official flag days. The flag is primarily a national symbol. Proposals to make an International Day of Marking, which the UN Day of 24 October has previously been rejected as official flag day, despite the solid rapprochement of the Norwegian people about the UN and the ideals of the World Organisation. Other proposals on flag days with an international perspective, such as the European Day and International Women's Day, have also not been made. The proposal to make the Day of Human Rights a Flag Day has a similar character. Now, however, it also falls to coincide on 10 December with the date when the Nobel Committee traditionally distributes the Peace Prize. If this date were to be a new official flag day, it could have other unintended consequences. It could help to substantiate the widespread misunderstanding, mainly in the rest of the world, that it is Norway as a state or the Norwegian Government that awards the prize and not a committee appointed by the National Assembly. It is important to avoid doubt about the full integrity of the Nobel Committee vis-à-vis official Norway and vis-à-vis government policy. A general consideration is the broad respect in Norway for the flag as a national symbol marking the gathering of national celebrations and celebrations. This is an argument that fixed official flag days in Norway are still limited to national and religious holidays and the royal family's birthdays. The only exception in Norway to the rule on purely national flag day anchoring is 1 May. One important factor is that so far there has been a good upsurge even in private about flagging on traditional holidays. If it is opened for new flag days, there will also be a question of how most people will deal with them in the long term. In the light of the points I have pointed out – and not least in the light of the connection to the Nobel Peace Prize award ceremony – it has not been found to agree to make the Human Rights Day a new official flag day. On the other hand, as Minister of Human Rights, I would also like to stress that every institution or person is free to fly the national flag on such an important occasion as the Human Rights Day and to encourage others to do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e856	There was a lot of sympathy in the answer, but the answer was quite negative. When you deal with other proposals on international flag days, December 10 is very special, and I think we're going to flag this year and say that now we're starting with this because it's now 50 years since the UN adopted the Declaration of Human Rights. If there's something that kind of needs to go through all international issues, it's human rights. As the Council of State correctly pointed out, we already have one day that stands out as an international day where it's being flagged, and that's 1 May. In addition to that, I think – without inflation in flag days, because I don't think it should – that December 10 is a day that stands out. In a way, it would be a fine mark for Norway that we put human rights in focus and made this an official flag day. Of course, I hope that people flag anyway, but I would like that day as an official flag day.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e863	: I am pleased that the representative Myrvoll and I agree that there will be no inflation in flag days. I also agree with Mr Myrvoll that the Day of Human Rights, and not least the 50th anniversary of the UN Declaration of Human Rights, is a very important day, and we shall get to know it as the celebration takes place. However, I would like to confront the representative Myrvoll with a picture of a given situation that can arise if you have on 10 December as a flag day in the context of human rights. Then the entire official Norway will flag while the Nobel Committee makes its distribution to a Peace Prize winner, who may be oppositional and demanding, for example. abstinence and independence for their own people, which is not necessarily 100 pst official Norway. Agreed. Then we can get into a pretty difficult situation. I can sign that we are still internationally misunderstandings that it is official Norway who appoints the Peace Prize winner and not an independent committee. I do not think that this problem has been solved despite the good intentions of the Myrvoll representative.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e870	Sir. President! I'll think through the objections.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e877	Then we go to question 27.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e883	I have the following questions for the Minister for Development and Human Rights: ‘Akin Birdal, President of the Turkish Human Rights Organisation IHD, has been sentenced to one year in prison for his defence of the Kurdish people. He was recently refused to go to Norway to attend meetings and receive treatment for injuries following an attack earlier this year. This is one of Turkey's many gross violations of human rights. What initiatives will the Council of State take to press Turkish authorities to respect elementary human rights?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e892	On the Norwegian side, we are actively committed to strengthening the conditions of human rights in Turkey. Over the last year, the government has had ongoing dialogue with Turkish authorities on these issues. There have been several meetings also at government level, and I have participated in several of them. In this context, freedom of expression and free working conditions are central to human rights champions. During my visit to Ankara earlier this fall, I used the talks with Turkish government members to address a number of the most central human rights issues in which Turkey meets international criticism, such as freedom of expression, the rights of the Kurds as a minority and the use of torture. I also addressed the situation of several political prisoners in particular. During the visit I also met several representatives of the human rights communities in Turkey, among them the imprisoned Kurdish parliamentarian Leyla Zana and Akin Birdal personally. Akin Birdal plays an important role in the human rights work in Turkey. This, in fact, also said the Turkish authorities when the attack on him happened. A prison of Birdal will mean a setback for this work. I contacted my Turkish colleague in the form of a letter two weeks ago and expressed my concern. Our concern for Birdal’s situation has been further exacerbated by the decision on the exit ban, especially as he also had medical reasons to come to Norway. State Secretary Åslaug Haga took the case up with the Turkish ambassador last week and asked that the prosecution's decision on the exit ban could be reversed. Birdal has now submitted the medical documentation to the prosecution authority and awaits its assessment. We are in constant contact with Birdal and now have a strong hope that the exit ban decision can be reversed. We are continuously assessing how we can most effectively contribute to improving the human rights situation in Turkey. It's our impression that the Turkish government wants to improve the situation. However, we must recognise that the minority government is facing difficult political realities, and not least these days. We therefore see it as necessary to continue the dialogue to influence Turkish authorities both to change their policies and to take initiatives to reform legislation to enhance respect for human rights. At the same time, we will continue to actively participate in the work of the Council of Europe to improve the human rights situation in Turkey.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e905	I thank you for your answer. I had great expectations for this answer, for I am not in doubt about the involvement of the Council of State in human rights in Turkey and for Akin Birdal in particular. I also share that view that especially Akin Birdal is an important symbol for all those who are fighting for human rights in Turkey, and also for the rights of the Kurdish people. But then there are the same authorities that say they support Akin Birdal, who uphold the laws that allow Birdal and other human rights fighters to be carried in. Akin Birdal was sentenced to racial hatred because he had used the term «Kurdish people». It shows that you have rules that make it possible to bring people in. Then my question is, Will the Council support campaigns that will prevent Akin Birdal from going to prison, and that there will be 18 new cases against him?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e910	The President will note that some SV representatives go far beyond the measured time of 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e913	It could be because of the exposure!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e918	The representative of Valle is right in describing the importance of Akin Birdal and other human rights champions working freely. We're busy with that. To the representative of Valle's briefing, there is a sort of reform package in Parliament for consideration, proposing a change in a number of laws. In our opinion, these changes are far too small, but I can inform you that, as far as I am aware, the punishment that has now become part of Akin Birdal would be substantially reduced and probably only fines would have been imposed if the laws had been passed. The problem, however, is that freedom of expression means not being punished for its opinions, and that is what we maintain against the Turkish authorities. But what is the problem now is that the current political crisis in Turkey may mean that these smaller and marginal reforms too may have problems to be adopted – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e925	Then I'll go straight to some specific issues. Both NGOs and lawyers here in Norway will want to help IHD raise cases in Strasbourg and launch campaigns in Turkey. My question is: will the Council of State help them to help IHD? And further: Norway takes over the presidency of the OSCE over the New Year. It could be an excellent opportunity to use just that force to push Turkey to abolish the laws that allow the kind of persecution and harassment that Turkey is doing today, and see if it is also possible to get sanctions to exert pressure on Turkey.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e930	We have for a long time supported Turkish human rights organisations through Norwegian non-governmental organisations, the Norwegian Forum for Freedom of Speech and other human rights organisations in Norway. They have received considerable resources from Norway for their work both in running the torture victims centre and in their active efforts to defend and fight for the human rights networks in Turkey. I also met a number of them, and let's say IHD is one of several. It's important that we not just focus on them and on Birdal, because there are very many. Of course, we should use all the channels we can, including the OSCE, and the Council of Europe is among the international forums where the human rights situation in Turkey is most focused and where we participate very actively. So there is no doubt that we are using all channels, multilateral and bilateral, to influence the situation, and what is the case is that getting amended legislation will also improve the situation in relation to all of these issues that the representative Valle was now dealing with. That's why we're practicing that kind of pressure against Turkey.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e937	Then we go back to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e944	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘Many suggest that in the main growing areas of cod in the Barents Sea, a Russian predatory fishing is now taking place on small fish. This may have very serious resource consequences for our own fishing industry. What concrete initiatives will the Council of State take to ensure that this unacceptable development can be halted as soon as possible, and does he see that this information may have an impact on the setting of the quota for Norwegian-Arctic cod?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e953	Initially, I would like to point out that the Norwegian-Arctic cod management regime in the Barents Sea, developed through years of cooperation with the Russians, has resulted in several important measures to ensure the sustainable management of fishing resources in the region. In particular, I would like to highlight the system of closure and opening of fishing grounds as important in this context. The scheme means that by over-intervention of sub-measured fish in the catches, we can close a fish field in order to preserve the small fish. At the meeting of the Norwegian-Russian Joint Fisheries Commission in Tromsø last week, we agreed with the Russians on common guidelines for the use of this instrument. Common prohibitions on the use of toasts separating small fish from trawls in the Barents Sea have also been introduced. Although we have succeeded in putting such measures in place, we do not avoid the inclusion of sub-measured fish in the catches. On this basis and in order to obtain an overview of the total fish yield, all fish must be delivered. We've come from, among other things. this is a draft prohibition and a delivery order for all fish caught. It is therefore not uncommon for subtarget fish to be detected in individual batches. In recent times, it has focused on two Russian parties delivered for resale from customs warehouses in Ålesund. Let me immediately say that delivery for resale from customs warehouses is an incorporated system that, as we know, has worked satisfactorily. The relevant batches have been controlled by the Directorate of Fisheries, which reports that there are large quantities of fish below minimum targets in the batches. However, it is difficult to say whether this is representative of the catch composition during fishing, since the lots have come by boat. However, the results of our studies have been handed over to Russian control authorities for further follow-up. Let me add that we have generally learned that Russian caught fish keep minimum targets. I then remind you that in the Russian zone there are other and lower minimum targets with the background that the fish there are jammed over less. This has been a topic of conflict between Norway and Russia for many years without finding a solution. The problem has been reduced by the introduction of equal playing distances in most of the Barents Sea. I would also like to mention that there is no demand for raw material under legal minimum requirements from Norwegian companies. However, from the point of view of importers, we have been informed that there is an important market for fish below the minimum level in the United Kingdom, which I would like to raise with my British colleague, Mr Morley, on the first occasion. With regard to the setting of allowances, this is done on the basis of the recommendations of the researchers for each year. A tax pattern aimed at the oldest classes of the year is important for the construction of the stock and thus for the possibility of increasing the quotas in the future. [[The President clubs.]] Administrative cooperation with Russia has been concentrated in recent years on improving the pattern of taxation. The case of the representative, Bekkemelm Orheim, travels, shows the need to make a high effort in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e971	The President shall use the opportunity to recall that speaking time has to be observed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e974	There are very alarming populations of marine scientists in these days, together with information suggesting that since the summer a giant Russian predatory fishery has been operated on juveniles that may have accounted for a total catch of 300000 tonnes. In fact, I think that the Minister for Fisheries answers a little defensively to something that can quickly prove to be a very serious problem for our fishing industry. Common prohibitions have been put in place on the use of toasts separating small fish from trawls in the Barents Sea, but there is much evidence today that Russians have granted derogations from the use of such toasts to trawls. One thing is what the Russian authorities say. Another thing is what unofficial information, both from the Russian Coast Guard and Russian inspectors, says. Among other things from England, large quantities of Russian fish have been reported down to 150 grams. I hope the Council of State can take this seriously, because, if it is true, the Russians in a few months of harvest have fished cod groves corresponding to more than the entire Norwegian quota in 1998, and this is a very serious situation for the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e979	The description given by the representative, Bekkelem Orheim, I cannot see is correct. The total Russian quota for cod in the Barents Sea is around 300,000 tonnes. Much of the Russian quota becomes the land of Russian trawlers in Norwegian ports and is controlled by Norwegian authorities. There are no reports saying that there is a significant element of subtarget fish in those catches. In the fisheries cooperation we have with the Russians, we have encouraged Russian fishing vessels to take their quotas in the Norwegian economic zone and Norwegian control measures and minimum targets. The background for wanting such a catch regime for the Russians, too, is that in the Russian zone east of the Barents Sea, there is a larger element of small fish. The party discovered here is a single case that we hope does not reveal any major exports from Russia of small fish. But it is clear that this year the Russians will not be able to fish the total quota of 300,000 tonnes, so the problem cannot be as large as it is described by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e986	It is clear that I and the Minister for Fisheries have a slightly different view of this problem. I would have liked the Minister of Fisheries to have gone a little more concretely into how he believes that this quota agreement between Norway and Russia could be followed up, so that we would have been absolutely sure that sorting staff would be used as agreed. I also wanted the Council of State to be able to go a little bit into what kind of control we have. Is it possible to go into a type of inspection to check in a different way from what we have the opportunity to do today? What happens from fishing in the Russian zone is also important for what will happen to our future fish stocks. That is why this matter is important. Our fishermen are very concerned, and they are concerned about this. When we also see the signals in the marine scientists today providing figures, it can quickly become quite leaner for the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e991	With regard to the use of gills, Russia has also incorporated into its fisheries rules the use of gills for trawl fishing. But there is also an exception both in our and in the Russian regulations that the rice can be removed from the trawl when it is fished in very bad weather, and especially for the smallest trawls. Unfortunately, accidents on board which have damaged persons have been found to occur, for the toast is a heavy aluminium structure attached to the trawl bag and which in seagoing and bad weather is difficult to handle on the deck. That's the background. So there are enough cases where it has been fished without gills, but this does not mean that the vessels have been exempted from the other provisions on mesh size, which are also on silling out the small fish and leaving fields where there are too many small fish. As I mentioned in my first post, this has been a topic in fisheries negotiations with Russia this year as well as in previous years, and many measures have been taken in recent years to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e999	I have the following questions for our Minister for Fisheries: ‘Self population in Oslofjorden has increased sharply in a few years with a decrease in fish stocks during the same period. Last year, 15 cells along the Eastfold coast were allowed to be killed. Inner Oslofjord Fischerlag now makes a stock register and estimates the total cell stock in this area to 2000 animals. Would you like to take account of the increase in cell stock and recommend a significant increase in the set-aside rate for next year?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1008	I would first like to point out that in 1996 the Ministry of Fisheries laid down a new regulation on the management of sales on the Norwegian coast. The purpose of the management of seals on the coast is to ensure viable cell populations. Within this framework, cell populations can be taxed as a renewable resource and stocks are regulated according to ecological and social considerations. Under that provision, a general prohibition on the capture of seals of all species on the Norwegian coast has been imposed. However, it is possible to authorise sales hunting in areas where stocks are considered to be huntable. Coastal hunting is allowed to take place in the counties for one year at a time. For the current year, the Ministry of Fisheries established a specific number of housing cells in the different counties based solely on biological considerations. This implies that the allowances have been determined on the basis of scientific recommendations. In view of the fact that sales have created special problems for fishing and industrial activities in the provinces of Finnmark, Troms and Nordland, it was decided in the summer to increase coastal quota by 30 pst. in each of the three counties. The Ministry of Fisheries shall, within a short period of time, fix quotas for the catch of cod for 1999. The total quota will be established on the basis of scientific recommendations. The population in Eastfold is per year. today estimated to consist of 300 stone copper. There are no recommendations suggesting that there is room to increase the Eastfold County quota compared to the year when a 15-animal quota was set. However, the new stock estimates from Inner Oslofjord Fischerlag will be further assessed before the quota for 1999. Fisheries authorities will also assess whether there is a social need to establish a higher exclusion than the biological basis alone. This would be the case for areas where one has knowledge that the seller is harming fishing gears and farms as well as where one has recorded problems with spreading parasites from the seller to the fish. I would like to draw attention to the fact that exceptional provisions have been laid down for cases where the seller damages fishing gears and farms in the sea. The owner, user or other person supervising the equipment or installation may kill the seller. However, before killing, other measures to avert damage shall be tried to a reasonable extent. Any killing of a cell shall be reported on the established form.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1021	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The population of the Oslofjord area has doubled in a few years. This cannot be questioned through observations and records, although it is, of course, difficult to calculate the increase by an exact number. I am therefore very pleased that the Council of State will take a closer look at stock estimates based on the censuses carried out by Inner Oslofjord Fischerlag before establishing the new cutting quotas. So that's a positive answer. Only around Heia in the Outer Oslofjord has a supervisor registered 270 cells, while the number in the entire area – the Koster archipelago included – is estimated at the time. It is in line with the estimates made earlier by Inner Oslofjord Fischerlag. So this is about a killing permit, like it's been given for the current year, at a few tenths of a percent or per million -- if these numbers prove to be right. Does not the Council of State consider that realistic assessments need to be made by granting a higher level of permission for killing whose stock registration so warrants?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1030	What I can say is that in the Ministry of Fisheries we are of course obliged to maintain the diversity of species of marine wildlife along the coast. But we'd like to admit that it's very difficult to get a complete overview of the size of local cell populations along the coast. It will be both costly and time-consuming to get such a complete overview. Of course, we will now take into account the reports coming from the individual parts of the coast and include them in the assessments when determining the management of selenium along the coast for next year. I can also say that we in the Ministry of Fisheries will look at whether we are going to change the administrative regimes we have for selenium, so that, in the way and within the resources that we have, we can make a better stock assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1037	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. The current year only seven seals of a total quota of 15 animals have been set aside. The reason, according to the hunters, is that each one just gets one sale to fall. If there is to be efficiency in killing, individuals must have a greater number of animals to trap. Would it be possible to open up to give larger allowances per. hunts, so that the hunt can get up?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1044	I must admit that the Council of State was not familiar with that problem until it was raised here. But I think it is very important that we include in this context all the issues related to both taxation and the management of sales. I can therefore promise the representative Hedstrøm that it will be included in the assessment we are going to make in the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1059	This question falls away. Question 10 will be answered in front of question 21.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1067	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘2. In November 1998, a 90-year-old man in the ski was attacked and severely abused by a drunken 24-year-old. On Tuesday 3 November 1998, he was presented for questioning and saw free because, as has been said, there should be no risk of repetition. People's reactions are very strong. What will the Council of State do to bring case-law more into line with people's justice in this area?'
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1076	The terms of custody are set out in the Criminal Procedures Act. One condition is that imprisonment is deemed necessary in order to prevent him from committing another criminal offence which could result in a higher sentence than six months in prison. It is the right of inquiry that assesses and determines whether the conditions for custody are present. As the representative of Godal is sure to know, I cannot, as Minister of Justice, intervene in the activities of the courts, which are independent of the political authorities in dealing with individual cases. I am also cut off from commenting on individual decisions made by the court. In such cases, reference is made to the legal remedy system on which our legal order is based. However, I have also noticed people's strong reactions to release in this matter and in other matters that have been strongly promoted in the media lately. I don't have any trouble getting involved in people's reactions. A more effective management of violence so that the time between the seizure and the criminal response can be reduced is an important measure, and I consider this a priority task for the Government. Improvements have already been achieved in several districts, partly through the introduction of new resources and partly through improvements in routines. I can also inform you that the prosecution authority will seek to prioritise the further follow-up to the case mentioned in the question, so that a final decision can be made within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1087	I thank you for the answer, which I interpret positively. It is clear that the Council of State cannot go into individual cases, but it is the Council of State and the Stortinget's responsibility to ensure that we have a legal regime that is consistent with the legal system of the Norwegian people. I think I'm going to have to do some radical things now. Crime is developing in an unacceptable way. In this way, we will have to follow up with preventive measures. And one of the things that I think is absolutely necessary is that we get a much faster reaction from the truth done and until the trial comes to justice. I would like to ask the Council of State if it can think of a system in which particularly serious acts of violence were taken out of line, so that one gets a reaction in the judiciary immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1096	I agree with the representative of Godal that we must try to find ways to reduce the time between the crime and the reaction. But I'm initially very questionable if what was outlined as a solution, that one should be taken out of line in the event of serious violent crimes, will lead to something positive. Because we're painfully aware that we're going to be able to stop these crimes that happen, maybe by young people who don't have a long criminal career behind them, and try to get them into a new track, it's also very important that we get quick reactions there. Therefore, the difficult balances that obviously require quite thorough investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1101	I totally agree with the Council of State that it is important that young lawbreakers face a reaction quickly. But I also think it is very important that people who commit serious acts of violence, such as in the case that is the starting point for my question, do not become free for a long time before they are faced with a reaction. When people do crazy things, in my opinion, they should be put in pretty fast.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1106	I would like to point out that the system we have with care is used where it is considered necessary to prevent new crime and to obtain the best possible lighting of the case. But here we have the Council of Europe's torture monitoring committee, which has given us credit for the improvements made in Norway in relation to long-term care, so that's not the way to go either. I therefore agree with the representative of Godal that here we must try, not least by improving efficiency and by assessing whether we can run matters faster through the judiciary, to improve what is our common concern: to show to society that crime cannot be accepted, and that criminals should not go free.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1114	I have this question to the Minister of Justice: ‘Through the media, one has become aware of the fact that a guarded killer, subject to psychiatric treatment at Rogaland Psychiatric Hospital, has been granted several leave without police briefing. There seems to be some uncertainty about the division of responsibilities and authority between police and health services in such cases. What will the Council of State do to clarify the question of which responsibilities apply to psychiatric patients who have committed serious acts of violence?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1123	A person in custody is under the responsibility and control of the police. After examining the case with Rogaland police district, I have been informed that in this case the prisoner was subject to psychiatric treatment and admitted to Rogaland Psychiatric Hospital during the custody period. The hospital has, after a professional assessment, granted the permit, without the police's knowledge and without informing the police. During the leave, the prison member has always been the result of staff from the institution. The general rule is that a person who is in custody cannot be released without being ordered either by the court of inquiry or by the prosecution authority. If the prisoner needs to come to a doctor or similar or has other well-being reasons for temporarily withdrawing from custody, this is done by being produced by the police. In other words, he is under police supervision all the time. If the prisoner is undergoing psychiatric treatment during the period of custody, we must accept that treatment grounds may indicate that another form of supervision is being exercised over the prisoner. In 1992, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health developed guidelines for the protection of health or criminal convictions under the protection of mental health. It will lead too far to get into these guidelines, but I can briefly mention that they, among other things. decide that responsible consultations shall seek the advice of the prosecution and prison authorities if longer leave or longer leave is available for persons convicted of serious violent or moral crimes. The guidelines are also assumed to apply during custody. In my opinion, there should be no doubt as to which rules apply. I understand that the institution, as part of the treatment, must have some leeway in terms of its ability to expand. However, if the prisoner is granted access to leave outside the institution, the police should be alerted. Although in these cases he is under the supervision of a professional, I understand that there may be reactions when he is observed out in society. As I have been informed, there has been contact between the management of Rogaland Police District and Rogaland Psychiatric Hospitals with a view to clarifying the rules applicable to Psychiatric Prisons in Psychiatric Institutions. I look seriously at this matter, as in recent years we have experienced several tragic and serious acts committed by psychiatric patients. In my view, it is likely that the aim should be to establish a mechanism in which contact is established between the prosecution authority and the institution in relation to transfers to the institution. Contact persons should be appointed at the same time and provision should be made for leave outside the institution to be provided without the opinion of the prosecution authority. Therefore, in consultation with the Minister of Health, I would like to address the question of how psychiatric institutions should be informed about their responsibilities and powers when they receive custody of patients and whether there is a need for change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1140	I thank the Minister of Justice for the answer, and I note that the Minister of Justice shares the concern that many of us have for the situation of psychiatric patients, which in given situations can become very dangerous. It seems a little pointless that the police and the court should use time and resources to get a confirmation of an extension of a custody sentence pending proper legal proceedings, if a psychiatric institution can in the meantime take the person in question – I do not want to call it a criminal, but a patient – who can then be granted leave without the conditions for leave being laid down in guidelines, and without the conditions for leave being based on judgments. It is precisely for the court to have the opportunity to premise also for leave that one has a security case and not a criminal case against sick people. Will the Minister of Justice take an initiative to ensure that the responsibilities between the police and the psychiatry are legalised to meet the needs of both the mentally ill and the public's need for protection?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1149	As I said in my first answer, I expect that this should really be clear enough. But I have said that I want to take an initiative towards the Minister of Health with a view to clarifying these responsibilities. In this case, there was a custody prison in a psychiatric hospital, and for custody prisoners, the term ‘permit’ does not really exist. There are medical reasons why custody prisoners admitted to psychiatric institutions are given the opportunity to leave the hospital and it must be considered appropriate that the prisoner has a certain mobility authority under the supervision of medical professionals. The prosecution authority may not oppose this if it deems it necessary for the purposes of the proceedings. The problem is to be solved, and I can't say here that there is a need to change the legal situation, but the clarification is obviously necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1159	I have a question for the Minister of Justice: ‘6. In November 1998, a man accused in the Western Isle of Honor of trying to catch ots with mink traps. The case has been investigated by the Lofoten and the Vesteraal Police Chamber since 8 April 1997, i.e. over 1 year. Any expert on traps, as well as catchers and laymen, knows that it's almost impossible to catch ots in mink traps. The trial resulted in the accomplice making the claim of full acquittal. Does the Minister of Justice consider this to be a proper use of resources by police and prosecution authorities?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1168	It is the police chief who is responsible for how the work is prioritised in a police district. The Advocate General has a general professional responsibility for the prosecution tasks. The case-handling time in the current case was long because the lenman's office concerned for a period of approx. one year lowered the case due to other urgent tasks. The action in that case concerned three different items, and there was a conviction in the other two items. It was the evidence of the court that led the actor to claim the acquittal of the prosecution the representative Bastesen refers to in his question. I also draw attention to the fact that the judgment is not yet enforceable.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1177	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There is agreement that the judgment is not enforceable, it is not even written, but it should be done that the judge writes something different than what is claimed by the actor when the defenders and the actor agree – enough about it. In the context of what we have seen here in the Oslo area of violence and madness, it becomes absolutely incredible for the district population to experience such a resource use and unreasonableness in such a process. The oilman could have solved the whole problem by calling the Directorate of Nature Management. They had then received a reasonable answer, and then the case had been dismissed. Isn't it time for the Minister of Justice to send a circular in which the police are required to use reason in such cases?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1186	The President will remind the representative of Bastesen that the speech should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1189	The Minister of Justice considers the fight against crime to be a reasonable priority in each police district has been delegated to the chief of police, who is responsible for making his own assessments on the basis of local circumstances. Both the Minister of Justice and the State Attorney General, in each of their fields, say what a judgment should be like or how the police chief should dispose of, but not in detail. Then I have been informed by the Foundation for Natural Research and Cultural Memory that the «submitted trap can catch oter». Time doesn't allow me to go into it more closely, but when this assessment was made by the chief of police, I respect that. We may also be able to gain visible evidence that there is something to be gained both by having a good governance dialogue with the various police officers, and by making other assessments of police forces around.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1196	I thank you again for the answer. I know the report that was written at NINA. It's just that the scientist at NINA doesn't research for traps, and she doesn't know how to trap traps, that's not what's her specialty. Nevertheless, the views of this researcher are at the heart of police treatment. It would have been better if the mariner had called the Directorate of Nature Management, who, after all, has the necessary knowledge of catch and all the other catches. Furthermore, I note that the Minister of Justice does not want the gentlemen to use reason.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1205	The Minister of Justice does not want to answer that observation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1211	I will be asked the following questions by the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘In Hamar Arbeiderblad on 19 October 1998, we read that more and more businesses are looking for younger and younger people when new jobs are to be filled. Many job advertisements are targeted at people under 35 years of age. It is positive that young people are attracted to the labour market, but it is worrying that many employers, according to the newspaper, do not see the value of the fact that people over 35 years of age also have something to contribute to the labour market. What does the Council of State think about this development, and what can be done to change it?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1220	I share the concern of the representative Brustad if it is right that many employers do not see the value of older people having anything to do with the work. We need older because they're a resource. They have experience and competence that young people have not acquired. In addition, demographic trends indicate that the recruitment of younger people to the labour market will slow down in the years to come. We therefore need older workers to meet the demand for labour in society. However, I believe that there is no reason for great concern about the job prospects for those who have recently passed 35 years. Those I feel that there is cause for concern are the elderly, especially those who become unemployed from the mid-50s or later. Unemployment rates show that older people have more difficulties in returning to work than others. 25 pst. of the unemployed aged 30-49 years were long-term unemployed at the end of September 1998 compared with 41 p.m. in the 50-59 age group and a total of 64 pst. for jobseekers aged between 60 and 64. The government takes these problems seriously. Concern about the position of older workers in the labour market is the reason why, in cooperation with the social partners, we have developed an information booklet to focus on the resources that are older in the labour market. This presents research-based knowledge that underpins the importance of older people in working life. In order to keep older people in the workforce, it is essential that they have the skills required by the labour market. This underlines the need for a reform of competence for lifelong learning. There is also a sample in work, the so-called Early Pensions Committee, which looks at these issues. The selection shall consider measures that can help people to stay longer in work, either in full or part-time. This work will provide a basis for a more detailed assessment of whether new measures should be put in place for the group of older workers.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1235	I thank the Council of State for the answer and, of course, I agree that this is the most cause for concern for the older workers and those who are long-term unemployed. But I also have to say that there is a frightening development when more companies in my own county are looking for people who are even under 35 years of age. At the same time, we see in an Oslo newspaper today that there are becoming tougher and tougher in the labour market, that one should be healthy and so-called successful and work all the time in order to be able to participate in the labour market. It's a development that scares. I think it is nice to look at the situation of older workers in particular. But I have to say that this is a little strange in the light of the budget presented by the Government. I would therefore like to ask: does the Council of State think that the Government's proposal on almost halving the labour market measures for next year is a good contribution to helping long-term unemployed and older workers?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1242	Now the question got a slightly different character than the original question. I want to say, before I respond to the latest, that the state as an employer is actively working with senior policy. This does not mean working for older people to leave their working life as early as possible, but it does mean that they should have opportunities for development even at the end of their working life. With regard to the 1999 labour market measures, which we are sure to get back to in the budget debate, they have been put at a level based on an assessment of the labour market situation as we see it now. At the same time, we say that this is a point where we want to have full attention to development. And if that is needed, we will of course come back later with other figures on the level of intervention. At the same time, we must now use the opportunity we have, to get long-term unemployed into work, through shorter AMO courses aimed at the market. We see that it is useful for groups other than ordinary workers to enter the labour market in the economic cycle we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1254	I have a question for the Minister for Transport: ‘By unanimous decision of 28 April 1997, the Stortinget Government asked for the establishment of interdisciplinary accident analysis teams to investigate traffic accidents in different parts of the country. Despite a regrettable increase in accident rates, the decision has not been followed up by the systematic establishment of such groups. Where does this matter stand, and what progress plan does the Ministry have for further work?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1263	I would like to start by stressing that I welcome the creation of accident analysis teams as one of several tools for getting better knowledge of the causes of accidents, and thereby the basis for taking the most effective measures to reduce the number of accidents. The work of accident analysis teams is intended as in-depth analyses of a limited number of accidents. A more fundamental analysis of the situation provides a deeper understanding of accident-related conditions. This work will be in addition to the extensive work on accident data that has been carried out for many years, and can provide us with additional information that is not possible to obtain from the traditional work based on police accident reports. For a long time there has been activity in this field under the direction of road offices in some counties, such as the United Kingdom. Vestfold, Rogaland, Süd-Trøndelag, Nord-Trøndelag and Finnmark. In order to harmonise and improve this work, the Directorate of Roads, following on from the Storting initiative last year, has drawn up a proposal for guidelines for further work on accident analysis groups. This proposal is now being considered in the departments concerned. Further work will also involve contact with road offices, so that those who are to participate in the scheme follow as closely as possible the arrangements drawn up. The aim is that already this winter accident analysis teams should be established to work according to these guidelines. Based on a professional assessment, there is no need to undergo all serious accidents throughout the country in order to obtain the knowledge that such analyses can provide. It is therefore initially aimed at setting up accident analysis teams in nine counties to study different types of serious accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1274	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I am very pleased with. This with the establishment of accident analysis teams is now imminent, and it has been done in the light of the time since the Storting decision. The number of accidents involving vehicle combinations is increasing. 365 persons were killed or injured in such accidents last year. Cargo drivers want an investigation of the accidents to find the causes, and so they also believe that the accident figures can be reduced. I have noticed that the Transport Economics Institute in a 1996 investigation pointed out that driving a heavy-duty vehicle is so different from driving other vehicles that any investigation teams should also have a representative for drivers of such vehicles, i.e. a professional specialist. There was also an important point in the debate in Stortinget in advance of the decision to set up multidisciplinary accident analysis teams. Is this taken into account in the guidelines under preparation?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1281	The guidelines currently being developed aim to have expertise on cars, on technical issues and on roads, as well as medical expertise and contact with the police. Furthermore, the guidelines make it clear that it may be appropriate for road offices to involve other groups in the work. For example, in studies involving heavy-duty vehicles: be relevant to the involvement of a representative of the Norwegian Transport Workers’ Association or the Norwegian Freight Car Association, and it may also be relevant for other road users’ groups, depending on the type of accident being investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1286	I thank the Council of State for the additional response, which I am also pleased with. He specifically replied that it might also be appropriate to involve representatives of the truck industry, specialists in this field, but that flexibility should be demonstrated in this system and assessed according to the need – so the answer is fully satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1294	I will ask the following questions to Minister for Transport Odd Einar Dørum: «The Post Office has proposed adjustments to postal code numbers from 1 March 1999. There will continue to be very many of Bergen's inhabitants who do not get Bergen specified in their postal code, despite their having an address in the city. The chairmanship in Bergen has several times addressed the Post Office that Bergen is used as a postal address, but without results. Will the Council of State do anything to comply with the requirements of the municipality of Bergen, so that Bergen is specified in all postal addresses in Bergen?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1303	The entry Norge BA, through the new postal code system, suggested that all persons with a mailbox address should use ‘Bergen’ in their address, approx. 10,000 customers. Such an introduction of the «Bergen» postal address will meet the needs of industry and public enterprises to a large extent. Today, approx. 26000 households «Bergen» in the postal address. With the new system that the Post is now introducing, approx. 85000 households could use ‘Bergen’ as an postal address. I have been informed by Posten that the original proposal from the municipality of Bergen was that the site name should also be used in addition to the “Bergen”. This is not in accordance with the standard built up in relation to addresses dealing with name, street/road, postal code and place name. Due to the technical assumptions made in the sorting machines of the Post Office for proper sorting, sorting will be carried out at a higher quality level if there is one reference point in the address in addition to the postal code. In addition, it is important that such a reference point represents only a limited number of postal recipients. This increase, if any, could have negative consequences in terms of quality, reliability and delivery time in terms of postal services.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1310	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but it is in the nature of the matter that I am not quite satisfied with it. This postal code adjustment for Bergen, on which the Council of State was in, is going to include almost 100,000 people. I've seen numbers like 85,000 people, but I've also seen used numbers like 90,000 and 95,000. These approx. 100000 people will receive the ‘Bergen’ in all postal codes. Then why is it so hard to get this for the other half of the population of this city? I find it strange that the Post Office, which the Council of State had in mind, stated the quality, reliability and cost level as a basis for not being able to use the name of the ‘Bergen’ as an address. This despite the fact that other Norwegian cities, and not least many foreign cities, are doing so in an excellent way. Not least, I find it strange, as the Council of State confirmed, that everyone with a mailbox address in the municipality can use "Bergen" in their address.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1319	It is such that after the reorganization of the Post that has taken place, government councils do not closely supervise the Post Office’s activities. I am responsible for ensuring that the Post meets quality objectives, and the quality objectives imposed by Stortinget go, among other things. on the availability and efficiency of money. There are also lots in this room that think you should spend less money than for example. the government's intention is to use in so-called unprofitable postal services. The item has been subjected to a very significant conversion pressure and is responsible for it. In the light of this, it proposes to have the best possible sorting systems and to keep the lead times. The question asked concerns households in Bergen, and 85 000 households mean – in normal Norwegian – that more people are involved. I'm not going to try to guess, but I find out from the pulpit, as I said in my answer, that it's about 85 000 households. That means you've come very far with this. Getting beyond this, has the constraints that I've explained in the previous answer. Of course, I will take the representative's wonder to see if it can be drilled more in it, but I have no other answer to give than what I have already given.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1326	The last council said, I could look at it as a little handshake. However, I have to say that, according to them, Bergen Postgebiet has argued in a very heavy and extensive dialogue with the central units of the Post Office for the provision of postal code zones and for the use of ‘Bergen’ as an address for all postal addresses both for postal address and street/road address mail, as the chairmanship of the Bergen wants. Then my last question becomes to the Council of State: Why does the central management of the Post not follow up this desire of the local postal administration in Bergen instead of adopting this somewhat arrogant attitude that is here expressed by the monopoly company Postverket by saying no?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1333	Councillor Lilletun. I'm sorry, it was the Dørum Council. There's a big difference between these state councils, both in speech and more.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1336	But at the spiritual level, the difference is far less than anyone should know.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1341	Good!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1344	To that question and the comment I received, it is not that the Post, as the representative says, is just a monopoly company. In fact, it competes in the market beyond the exclusive jurisdiction, following a mission from Stortinget. In this competition, the Post has made sure that it is effective, has a service objective and at the same time does not spend more money than the Stortinge grant, in order to ensure the services. At this point of intersection, the central management of the Post has, within guidelines drawn up by the Storting, the right and obligation to achieve the best possible of the quality objectives, but at the same time make it the cheapest possible money. It's Storting's expectation. On that basis, there may well be a debate within the Post Office, but there is a debate going on there, and the management is ultimately in favour. My duty as a representative of Norwegian citizens is to keep up a service and quality goal, and it is, among other things, a matter of action. on the timely arrival of the post office. There may be changes, changes that are not as you were aware of when it came to the post office in the old days, to express it that way, but changes to maintain postal services. Especially in a situation where the number of transactions within banks decreases, I think we have to accept conversions. But critical questions are always received, and I registered such a critical question instead.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1352	I would like to ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘Safety of future recruitment to research positions is a priority task for higher education institutions. Recruitment takes place mainly through doctoral degrees and post-doc. scholarships. The amount of the scholarship cannot compete with the conditions that many potential scholarship holders may receive as remuneration elsewhere. It is therefore necessary to introduce different incentives. Will the Council of State take the initiative to reintroduce the system that the interest rate in the State Debt Education Fund does not run during the grant period?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1361	First of all, I would like to agree with the interpellant that a good recruitment for research positions is very important. Access to support from the State Loan Fund for doctoral studies in Norway fell from the autumn of 1995 following a decision on the basis of the treatment of St.meld. No 14 for 1993-94. The exemption from interest is linked to the right to support during education and therefore fell away at the same time. It was a collective committee as in Innst. S. No 101 for 1993-94 joined the department's recommendations for no longer providing support for doctoral studies in Norway, while retaining the possibility of support for doctoral education abroad. This decision was based on a proposal from the Magistrates Committee which was then supported by the hearing bodies throughout the period. The Ministry now considers that the basic research institutions and the Norwegian Research Council should have overall responsibility for the training of researchers in Norway and also for the public funding of the training of researchers. The Ministry, for its part, has contributed to the creation of a new scholarship position with the possibility of high pay placement — up to 50 levels of pay, better pay placement for the usual scholarship position and high pay placement for postdoctoral positions. So I want to focus on improving the pay conditions for doctoral students, and will not consider reintroducing the right to a doctoral degree in Norway and thus a right to an exemption from interest during education. Nor is it reasonable for doctoral students to be eligible for an exemption from interest after the completion of the Bachelor’s degree, while others in paid employment should not have this possibility. The payroll in the ordinary position of scholarships is on the level of other positions in the State for academics at the main level. With the new position of scholarship, which is higher placed on a pay basis, institutions should also be able to compete better in desirable disciplines where they have to compete with the private sector for the labour force.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1370	I thank you for your answer. And it was also reasonably clear that the Council of State would not use such an instrument to try to stimulate people to choose a scholarship to enter into research positions. I am well aware of the background to the change that was made in 1995. But things have changed since 1995, and we know that, in many cases, the level of pay in private business is significantly higher than a fellow can receive as a scholarship. It is important that we take care of those who want to enter research positions, that we do manage to stimulate them, and then we have to use different tools to do so. I'm also aware that you can use the paycheck in a different way than before, but we know that it's at the expense of the institutions. It will make it more difficult for institutions to perform other important tasks. So I'm going to ask the question again: won't the Council of State when he's going to present the research report in not too many months, discuss the exemption of interest during education as an instrument to stimulate research positions?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1379	In my view, the option now provided for flexible wage fixing is more targeted than the previous general rate exemption. There is no doubt that the debate over the last few years has led to the creation of many new post-doc options, which unfortunately took longer to get started due to negotiations, and likeins will also be able to give a better result to what has now happened in the budget, where a remedy could also lead to an improvement. But at the same time, I will be at the end of the meeting of the representative, whether we want to talk about this in the research message, do a discussion and explain why I have the position I have. In such a discussion, both sides of these points of view will obviously have to appear.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1384	I do not disagree with the Council of State that the instruments we now have using the pay bracket can be more targeted. However, the problem is that institutions have so limited wages and salaries that they do not use wages and salaries to encourage people to enter scholarship positions. There will be a fight between different interests, and there will often lose the scholarship. I think we have to be willing to use alternative incentives to get people to choose a research education, choose to go a research path. Because it's a big challenge to get more people to choose this as a way, in the conflict that's between maybe making a lot of money in private business, and choosing scholarships, which aren't always very high. I thank you for your answer. I thank you for this being discussed in the message, and I hope one will also discuss in general everything that has to do with research recruitment.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1391	What was my point was that instead of using a scheme as general, and that actually costs a lot of money when it's used in general, I think it's better to find a more accurate way, to align it to the priority area in another way. And it's possible both from the Research Council's side and from the institutions' side. Of course, it has to do with the total budget, and it'll be tight. But the issues raised by the representative, Mr Requam, will be included, as I said before, in the research message, and in any case we will of course come up with what the representative, Mr Requam, said, to look at the recruitment process, to look at what has been done, and to analyse it. Then we will also give reasoning around the representative that Reikvam brought up. But per year. the date I feel secure on the position I have taken here, which is in accordance with the previous decision of Storting. But it is always possible to do new analyses and see if they still hold water.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1401	I will ask the Council of State the following questions: ‘According to the Fädrelandsvenn, the headmaster of the Agder High School says that the school as an institution does not support the report prepared by a group of professionals at HiA on health surveillance information on youth life and sexuality. [[HiA]] Nor will the dean of humanities at HiA take the professional responsibility for the report, and she believes that such a report should have been prepared by several professionals from a wider professional environment. Does the Council of State consider that the report is drawn up by a wider professional environment than that used by the Health Authority?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1410	The Ministry of the Church, Education and Research is responsible for the training given in the primary school. State health services have developed a teaching system on youth life and sexuality. The teaching arrangements presented include: the target population of elephants in the baseline. The educational system is based on the Government's Action Plan for the Prevention of Unwanted Pregnancy. That's why it was natural for the department to look at the educational content. After assessment in the department, I decided to send the entire proposal for a professional pedagogical assessment in view of the use of the material in the base ball. The Ministry requested a multidisciplinary assessment on the basis of the guidance documents on which the school work was based. This means that the group had to assess the educational structure that was leading from the purpose paragraph of the school and the Apprenticeship for the 10 year base. The teaching system had thus to be assessed on the basis of the curriculums of the early stages of professional Christian knowledge with religious and life-viewing, natural and environmental sciences and social sciences. Questions about age limits and any right to exemption also had to be considered. A professional community that can carry out such a multidisciplinary assessment of issues related to nature, health, religion, philosophy, social sciences, media and pedagogics, we find several higher education institutions, and the department chose the Högskulen in Agder. After the Ministry has assessed the report, I have determined how this scheme could possibly be used in the basal coal. This I did well in Stortinget in spontaneous questioning on 28 October this year. The representative of Dørum wants a comparison between the width of the Health Inspectorate's professional group and the width of the department's professional group. Such a comparison is not particularly interesting, as the Department considers it, as the KUF does not question health care. On the other hand, the educational system in place lacks a professional pedagogical assessment for use in the primary school. We have now received it from a wide-ranging group of experts requested by the KUF. The rector and the dean at the højskulen characterise the members of the working group as ‘very competent and competent professionals with high integrity’, in posts in Fädrelandsvennen on 7 November 1998. It would not be natural for the university as an institution to approve purely professional judgements. The rector and the dean underline this in the article by saying: «Such assessments must be clearly accountable and accountable to professionals and should therefore not be reviewed by the governing bodies of the institution.»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1430	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The Council of State should be familiar with the thorough work done in connection with the teaching material of the Health Authority. Reference groups consisting of people with long experience in the teaching and development of educational material on life and sexuality for young people aged 13 to 24 have been appointed. Three of the members have been responsible for the preparation of national elections in society and sexuality. As far as computer games are concerned, various professional groups with acute competence have been with all the way, and the Centres for Youth, Society and Sexuality have had the main professional responsibility for the computer game together with the Health Authority. The game has also been tested in a group under the direction of the Council of Churches, with good judgment, and this group is responsible for the education of young people. The National Educational Centre has rated the computer game well and recommended it for use in the other Nordic countries. Does the Council of State think that the broad disciplines that have been used here are not good enough in terms of pedagogical assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1437	I said in my reply that I had full confidence in the health professional assessments of the Health Authority. When I go in and look at the reference groups that we've also been informed about, there are a lot of qualified people there, but it's quite obvious that it's not the same broad multidisciplinaryness in the areas that I wanted an assessment of, that's behind the Health Authority's reference group. The Ministry of the Church, Education and Research is responsible for teaching in the Norwegian School, and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health – in this case delegated to the Health Inspectorate – is responsible for the health stations and the information activities that can be done. The times you can also use this material in teaching at school, it's all right. But I wanted a broader assessment than what was underlying in the Health Authority, and I am happy with the assessment that the group I was referring to has made. All in all, I am confident in the recommendations I have made for the use of this material in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1442	I have noticed that the Council of State is satisfied with the Agder assessment, and that, according to the Council of State's assessment and its own statements, it is good, thorough and broad. But as the council has seen, the college doesn't agree with him in that. They do not want to take professional responsibility for the report, and they believe that such a report should have been drawn up by more professionals from a wider environment. The group at the University of Agder has only had one meeting, and it is this meeting that forms the basis for the report that is carried out in the pen by, among other things. theologians. I would not call this a good, thorough and broad assessment. The pedagogical assessment of the Health Authority has been carried out by educators with extensive experience. So it's because of the Agder report's assessment that the Council of State decides that the video should only be used in the 10th grade and that the video game should not be used in primary school. And I must say that is very regrettable. But I try again and ask the Council of State the following question: What is the reason why the Council of State has more confidence in this narrow group from Agder than in the professional assessment of the Health Authority?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1447	Now the Minister of Education does not fully understand what to disqualify a theologian with pedagogical competence in order to be involved in and evaluate such a scheme. I would think that there was also an interesting profession in that way. So it's not right what the representative Dørum says in relation to Agder Högskule's assessment. I would like to quote from a post in Fädrelandsvennen, November 7, 1998: «As the principal and the dean, it is our responsibility that we undertake the task of consulting people who volunteered to form such a group. The evaluations and conclusions made by the group are and must be borne by the group, and they have been sent to the department unabated. In this case, the group of highly qualified and competent professionals was of high integrity. We take it as being that they have assessed the matter on the basis of their professional knowledge, experience and best judgement." So it's not like they're assuming responsibility for the report, but it's treated like all the other reports. Cork a research assignment or report is presented on behalf of the board or a group at a highlight. It's never like that. And then I insist that it's on a broader basis what is done by this group in terms of education, not in relation to health issues.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1473	I have the following questions for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘In the context of an increase of 30 medical students in the Oslo region per year. a working group in the Ministry of Church, Education and Research has calculated an increase of operating costs of 230 million years. krona and the area requirement of 6000 sqm. The West Health Region has asked for a corresponding student escalation calculated at 44.3 million. kroner, plus an area grant of 2.8 million. krones. Will the State Council ensure that the Oslo plans do not link national, professional and financial resources for a long time in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1482	At the initiative of the Minister of Health, the KUF set up a working group to assess the restoration of the university function at the Central Hospital in Akershus. The working group, which presented a report now in the fall, believes that the central hospital is well-suited as a university clinic. The working group believes that if resources are to be deployed for SiA to become a university clinic, these resources should be used to increase the domestic uptake of medical students. The working group has made a suggestion to increase the recording by 30 students per year. Study ground costs will be about 27 million. SEK per year for 180 students. This sum corresponds to what is usually allowed to study in medicine. The working group has also made proposals on conversion and new construction at SiA and the University of 6000 m2. The plan is to raise students at SiA instead of buying study places abroad, so that the total number of places of study financed by the State budget will remain unchanged. The working group has shown in its report that they have been successful in assessing the need for personnel. Part of the need can be met by the goodies who are already added to the SiA, and the goodies who will be added as part of the expansion and strengthening of the SiA that will take place at all times in the coming years. According to the Government's opinion, the working group will present both the strength of the Central Hospital in Akershus and will be important for medical education at the University of Oslo. We also agree that there is a need to increase medical education in Norway. That is why the 1999 budget proposal proposes 1 million. the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs’ budget for the design of the SiA, and the Government is set to authorise the corresponding amounts of its budget to the University of Oslo. The government will come back to questions about possibly restoring the university function of SiA, in the context of the 2000 budget. We must then give priority to the proposal in relation to other measures in the State budget. We will also consider whether it is possible to achieve a somewhat more cautious escalation plan than the report suggests. I do not know what was presented from the health region west to which the representative Johnsen refers, and can therefore not comment. The number of medical students in Bergen increased in 1996 from 120 to 150 a year. Hausten 1998 increases the number of medical students in both Trondheim and Tromsø. NTNU will have an additional increase when the RIT 2000 is completed, and we are also working towards an increase at the University of Tromsø. As there seems to be a national need for further growth in the educational capacity of Lige, I do not find it unreasonable that the capacity of medical students also increases in Oslo. Of course, I will not allow this to bind national economic and professional resources for a long time to come. I would also like to remind you that the SiA measure will provide an access of 30 new lizards per year, thus helping to fill a national need for more physicians.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1499	I thank you for the answer I received – I guess I am not completely calmed down. I will refer you a little bit of a letter sent to Minister of Health Dagfinn Høybräten and Minister of Church and Education Jon Lilletun from the West Health Region. It says the following: ‘The regional health selection strongly responds to the submitted medical training plans in Akershus. This is due among others: The plan is a gross discrimination against health regions in favour of Akershus. The West Health Region has developed a plan for the training of 150 medical students in the region. This will cost approx. 1.5 million per month. student, while Akershus receives an offer that is unacceptablely high in comparison.» [[150 plans]] The letter ends with the following: ‘The West Health Region regional health selection request that the plan be set aside and that resources that follow it be made available to consult other health regions where the health workforce is much larger and where we can train medical students much more cost-effective.’ At the end of his speech, the minister said that he would not have increased recording capacity in the Oslo region tied funds and professional staff for a long time to come. What does the Minister mean by ‘long-term’ if this plan goes through?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1525	Time's up. The president forgets the clock when she hears such statements.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1528	It's all right on the part of the Minister that the President does, because I have a lot to say. First of all, I would like to pay a great deal of tribute to the West Health Region – mainly at the University of Bergen and the Dean there – for the way they have managed to increase the medical uptake, by decentralizing parts of the study. It is commendable, and it has been strongly supported by both the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research and the Ministry of Health. But the usage here is pretty meaningless, because if it were to be calculated that way, it would also have to take into account the preclinical institute that we are currently building in Bergen for just over a billion dollars, and that is an excuse to increase the absorption there. The point is that today we have a recording of Norwegian students studying abroad, of a lot of them in Dublin. What we want is to get them back home and educate them in Norway -- we think it's more likely that they'll be here then. That's why our problem over the last few years has been getting the university clinics to take in more students, not the opposite. So I'd like to warmly praise the health region west and the University of Bergen, but at the same time I think that here's a ghost at Høljo's day.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1537	I thank you again for the answer. I get a little calm when it's said that I'm starting to see ghosts at daylight – at least that's a positive statement, just that. I would like to conclude by reminding the Council of State that, in the context of a major communication on dimensioning in higher education and the need for increased investment in the field of IT and health, a press release was issued by the Ministry of Church, Education and Research on 15 May this year. There, the Council of State writes as a closing comment the following: ‘A targeted regional distribution of study places will also be important in the future.’ I expect the Council of State to be in charge of this and will ensure that, at least, the health region west does not become the region that is going to suffer for what is now being added to the Oslo region through this plan.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1549	What was said there in relation to the issue of regional distribution was wisely said by the Department and the Government. What's searched is that a multiple here on the Stortinget – Right and Workers Party – send it back again, so that this isn't the Stortinget's announcement, it's still only the Government. But if only the size is willing to follow up the line that the state council has set up here, it will be a good regional distribution. One of the accidents in the 1980s when it comes to medical training was that we dropped this education at Lørenskog. That's why we got into this mess we're now in. I mean, there's not a contradiction here. When we look at how many students we have now, and we take them home again, we can both create education at Lørenskog and be able to meet the health region west says they have the capacity. So this is going to be looking over a couple of years -- and I think we're going to be pretty much the same. And so, I'm very fond of the back-up when it comes to the prudence of the big message about dimensioning.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1559	I shall be allowed to ask the Minister of Social Affairs the following questions: ‘In Document 8:66, I made proposals in March 1996 to ensure the proper practice of the coordination law so that no one can lose on having earned pension points in Social Security. [[1995-96]] In the opinion, a unanimous committee in the proposal for a decision said, inter alia, that the proposal ‘is forwarded to the Government for assessment and follow-up in the context of the work of the Committee on Coordination on the positioning and legislative proposals in this respect’. When can we expect a new bill presented?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1568	The main proposals of the Coordination Committee were the following: to incorporate the coordination rules into the legislation of the various pension and social security systems so that the coordination laws can be repealed, and to convert the survivors' pensions from the service pension schemes into net schemes in the long term. In certain circumstances, a loss of supplementary pension can be offset by a negative effect. The coordination selection pointed out that this issue could be resolved by introducing a clearance solution or a standardised gross scheme. The peace settlement was rejected by the Stortinget in 1989 and 1992. The selection recommended continuing the current scheme. The coordination committee's proposal to repeal the coordination laws and to implement the rules on deductions from the legislation on service pension schemes may be the future solution for a law that has been discredited and has little understanding. Even if the laws were liberalized in 1989, there is still discontent. The selection was sent to the audience in December 1995. The Ministry then went in to repeal the coordination laws. It was shown that the rules on gross retirement and the deductions to be made will then be collected in one place for each scheme. In the spring of 1996, all public pension schemes managers gathered against repealing the coordination laws. In view of the unity of public-sector pension systems, the State Pension Fund, the municipal pension funds and the National Social Security Agency found that the coordination rules were still in force in a law. Nevertheless, it was pointed out that a framework law for public pension schemes could be an alternative. Following up on the settings from the Coordination Selection, it seems that a lot of time has been taken away from you because you need a holistic management of the public and municipal service pension schemes. The Ministry of Finance is probably following this up to spring. So, eighteenth to the question raised by the representative Alvheim: the rules of coordination may, in certain circumstances, lead to a reduction in the total pension when the supplementary pension in the population is increasing for the person who has started the service pension. This applies in particular to persons who receive an additional pension in part on the basis of the spouse's inauguration. The coordination selection was the best thing to do with the current system. The same question has also been assessed by the Supreme Court in the so-called Lassung-saka in 1994. The Supreme Court then found that the law of coordination had been practised correctly. Thus, in the hearing of the Coordination Committee's position in the spring of 1996, there was a strong commitment to furthering the current system. I intend to put this issue before Stortinget again as a specific matter. I hope to get to this before Christmas so that Stortinget can handle the matter in the spring of 1999. The majority may then consider the question raised by the representative Alvheim, but separately from the issue of the removal of the coordination law. I have noticed that one in particular. may lose out on caring points in public opinion. This is what I want to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1594	I thank the Minister for the answer. I agree with the Minister for Social Affairs that this is not a very simple matter; it is very complicated, but nevertheless: the time now spent on this review and any new legislative proposal cannot, in my opinion, be accepted. In 1997, the then Social Minister replied that the bill on any change was to be presented to the Stortinget at the turn of the year 1997/1998, and on a question-time question on 27 May this year, the current Social Minister stated that it was intended to present a legislative proposal, possibly for the autumn. Now the harvest is soon over and the winter is just around the corner, but I now registered that the social minister said she expected that a bill would be promoted for Stortinget by the end of the year. I'm just asking that this be confirmed from this pulpit right now.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1601	The coordination selection begins with the following setting: ‘The Coordination Act contains the most complex and difficult to access legislation we have in our legal system.’ I can confirm that I have had my extensive experience of going through the preliminary work that has been done so far. It is also the case that we in the department have spent time in May and beyond the fall to further gather views and assessments. I am impatient to submit not least to the Storting, as I said, an assessment of the side of care points, and I am now doing what I can to keep the promise that I have given to get the case before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1611	We're going to go to question No. 10th@item: inlistbox This question, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1617	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘In Norway, many dwellings are very close to high-spent lines. A lot of people think they're getting sick from the field around these high-spent lines. Experts in the field believe that this radiation may be dangerous to the human organism. Does the Council of State feel there is a need to look at this and consider introducing more stringent guidelines on how close high pent lines can be to residential areas and dwellings?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1626	Following a lengthy and thorough investigation, a cross-ministerial group presented NOU 1995:20 «Electromagnetic fields and health Proposal for a management strategy» in August 1995. The study is based on a report on the health significance of low-frequency and magnetic fields from an expert group. It is based on the professional competence of the departments' underlying bodies, such as the Labour Inspectorate, the Electricity Authority, the State Radiation Protection Agency, the State Institute for Public Health, the State Institute for Safety and Health at Work, the Norwegian Waterways and Energy Agency and the Radium Hospital. The recommendations made in NOO 1995:20 are as follows: 1st@item: inlistbox New power lines should seek to avoid access to housing, kindergartens and schools, etc. Measures involve small costs and must not cause other significant disadvantages. The current measures are primarily a series of trasé changes. 2nd@item: inlistbox In the case of new residential areas, schools, kindergartens, etc. the proximity of power lines should be avoided. Where possible, a slightly greater distance should be chosen than the minimum limits established for safety reasons for the distance between power lines and construction. [[for more reasons]] ...Due to the uncertainty that persists in the negative health effects of low frequency electromagnetic fields, the team of staff believes that, in choice situations, minimum field strength solutions should be chosen until further notice when this can be done without additional costs.’» The investigation has been at a wide public consultation and there was a great deal of welcome about the group’s proposals. These lead goods strategies are indicative in this area pending any new research results. As a follow-up to the work of NOU 1995:20, the State Health Authority was commissioned to produce a report on eloquence sensitivity with proposals on the future management of health services’ symptoms assumed to be related to electrical or magnetic fields. The Ministry was sent the report in April this year and is working on further follow-up. The size of the sample was in line with the findings of the investigation, cf. Inner. S. No 252 for 1997-98 for St. pp. No 65 for 1997-78, in the context of the revised national budget this year. And at the same time, it was made clear that research and development will continue to be carried out in this area. The Ministry awarded the Norwegian Research Council in 1997 and 1998 an annual budget of 500 000 kroner for this purpose. Furthermore, the State Radiation Protection Agency received 500 000 kroner in 1998 in order to find out its own information. In St. pp. No 1 for 1998-99 is said: ‘A national information system will be provided in 1999 for the follow-up to the management strategy NOU 1995:20 Electromagnetic fields and health.’ A further review of the field of action is to be prepared by the year 2000. The problem area also has a high level of international attention, and Norway participates in several activities, including: via the World Health Organisation, to illuminate radiation hazards and any disease risk. Until the recent evidence is documented, the NOU 1995:20 strategy, which has thus joined the Stortinget, will be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1653	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and of course I'm familiar with it – let's call it – counter-argument, at least the argument put forward by the Council of State. It is a fact that little is being done in this area in Norway. I guess I'm too disappointed with the answer I got. Although it is being worked on, small appropriations and small resources are being deployed in this area. What I would call the rejection of this question by the Norwegian authorities is remarkable as long as one knows that both Denmark, Sweden and Finland recognise that electromagnetic radiation can have a partly serious impact on the human organism. Some studies show that there are clear contexts here: cancer in children living in a nearby environment close to power lines. What I would like to ask the Council of State is: why are there stricter regulations in several other countries regarding the requirements for distance between residential buildings and high-spent lines than they are in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1660	I find it difficult to understand the characteristics of Andersen's representative of the answer I gave, because I did not present the counter-argument, I presented the professional assessment that led to the Ministry and the Council of State coming to Stortinget this spring with a recommendation on what should be a guiding management strategy in this area. That management strategy, that proposal, joined the Stortinget, as far as I remember, unanimously. In this, there is no dissenting position on my part, but on the contrary, a very strong technical recommendation on a leading commodity strategy in this area. What I am recording is that the representative, Andersen, has a wish that, in addition to the funds allocated to research in this area, more effort should be made. I would like to take note of that in view of later budgetary arrangements. But it is clear to me that part of the follow-up in this field should be continued research, and until we have more knowledge than we have today, we are following a leading commodity strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1667	The second answer I received from the Council of State feels more reassuring. I believe that this is a matter that is so serious that it needs to be looked at. What I asked for was a stronger effort in this area. That's what was the message in my first line. I believe that there are indications that Norwegian authorities and industries, the professional sector itself, are trying to minimize the realities that might lie in this with electromagnetic radiation. It is very unfortunate, if it is the case that other countries have accepted that there is a significant health risk in this problem, that one, perhaps because it means a lot of economic to do something about it in Norway, is trying to minimize it and sweep it under the carpet. I can't accept that. My final question must then be: do I understand that the Council of State will now be investing more in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1676	I regret to say that I believe that Andersen's representative is a bit off track when he characterises it so that the Norwegian authorities devalue this problem. It is not de minimis when setting up a public inquiry committee with all the expertise that can be gained in Norway in this field and asking them to develop a management strategy. It is not de minimis when the Norwegian authorities follow up the conclusions of the overall professional expert. It is not to sweep the problem under the carpet, but on the contrary to do some measures that, in isolation, are not a scientific basis to say that you have to do, but as you do because you want to be led was. So once again I have to distance myself from the characteristics, but just as fully I want to confirm: we're participating in international cooperation on these issues, and we're going to bet on research on these issues. And I have noted Andersen's concern that we should focus more on research.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1686	I will be allowed to ask the Minister of Health the following questions: ‘The offset frequency is at present at a rate of approx. 10-12 pst. of annual deaths. The State Health Authority recommends an autopsy rate of 40 pst. of all deaths. What is the reason for this development, and what will the Council of State do to increase the incidence of autopsy to a professionally sound level?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1695	The frequency of autopsy has been decreasing in Norway for the past 10-15 years, in line with that recorded in other western countries. This has several reasons: Autopsy as a traditional pathology activity may have lost some attention and status within the pathological environment, but also in doctors who claim services from pathologists. New diagnostic methods and new technical options have focused to a greater extent on finding diagnostics in living patients, perhaps at the expense of the quality work that the autopsy represents. With modern survey methodology and increased investigation activity, the number of deaths in which health services do not assume that the cause of death is known is the number of deaths. It is also fewer who die a sudden and unexpected death. These conditions have reduced the demand for autopsy. Hospitals have changed their operation, and there are relatively more people dying outside hospitals, either at home or in other institutions. Closer cooperation between pathologists and primary health services to perform autopsy has proved difficult in these deceased patients. It is necessary to obtain prior approval from the social security office in order for transport and autopsy to be refunded. The pathological departments in hospitals are in line with other hospital departments depending on tight economic governance and an expected level of performance in their activities. Health surveillance has previously expressed concerns about the consequences that a lower post-mortem activity may have for both education, quality work and disease statistics. In view of the above, the Health Authority considers that it is probably not realistic to maintain the wish to maintain a 40 pst. of all the dead shall be autopsyed, but there should be a target to significantly increase activity in relation to the current level. I agree with that. I have taken initiatives to improve the situation: The proposal for a new law on specialist health care places emphasis on the responsibility of hospitals for both patient treatment and education and research. Autopsy can be seen as an important tool in this context. In the proposal to amend the regional hospital grant, there are stronger indications as to how hospitals use the grant for both direct patient treatment, special regional hospital functions, education and research. It may also be appropriate to look at requisition procedures and reimbursements in connection with autopsy in cases of death both inside and outside hospitals. The Ministry has asked the State Health Authority for an explanation of the challenges facing the pathology profession, how the tasks should be carried out and how resources should be prioritised. This investigation will be carried out during the winter. It would also be natural for health surveillance and county doctors to focus attention on how hospitals use autopsies and the dissemination of experience from them in their work on internal control and quality assurance.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1725	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer, which I saw as positive and understanding in relation to the problem that is being discussed here. For one thing, I think there is a lack of resources in the pathological departments that is the main reason for this decline in the autopsy rate. A sufficiently high autopsy rate is a very important quality assurance for future diagnosis and treatment. As Norway’s pathological association sees it, it is particularly important that a high enough autopsy rate is maintained at our university hospitals, for the sake of education and research. And my follow-up question is, can the Minister of Health imagine imposing on our university hospital a minimum rate of autopsy, and is he willing to propose an eartag, necessary allocation to this?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1734	I agree with the representative Alvheim that the autopsy rate is an expression of the extent to which this important quality assurance work is being carried out in our hospital. I also agree with the pathologist association that the consideration of teaching and research at regional hospitals indicates that one has a sufficiently high autopsy rate. What is a realistic goal in relation to today's level, I don't want to have a sloppy view of it here and now, but I want to engage in dialogue with the Health Authority and on the basis of the statement we have asked on the challenges of the pathology subject, consider the questions raised by the representative Alvheim, in particular the question of whether a minimum rate should be requested, or whether to set a more explicit target. With regard to the degree of ringing, I believe that what we are doing now with the regional hospital allowance is largely following up on the intention that the representative Alvheim is after.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1743	I thank you again for the answer, which is still very positive and understanding for the matter itself. Of course, with regard to the special grants to the regional hospitals that we have today, they can be used if they are large enough. And if you get a proposition, as I suggested, it's a way to go. Another way to go is that when the department is now to approve the regional health plans, it could be ensured by the department that the autopsy service was duly maintained in these plans, and if not in the case of the approval, the regions could be required to provide for an autopsy rate of at least 20 p.p., which is probably the rate currently in Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1752	We are now in a process where we draw up guidelines for regional health planning. One of the main issues we are facing is the level of detail required by the State in relation to the content and design of these plans, and in this respect it would be natural to consider the question raised by the representative Alvheim at the end. I would say that initially, this issue may seem to be at a lower level of detail than the regional health plans should address, but the issue will be taken into account in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1760	Before I ask my question, I must be allowed to make a correction in it. Unfortunately, there has been an error in that I write that a judgment has been confirmed from the ‘Love Committee of the Supreme Court’. The right thing is Yellowing Lawyers' Law. And with this correction, I ask the Minister of Health the following questions: ‘There is now a court order between the State and a doctor in respect of a claim for reimbursement. In this case, the Court pointed out that the proceedings of the social security authorities had been seriously breached. Furthermore, there is a confirmed ruling from Gulating Lawyers' Rights against the Royal Resolution of 8 May 1998, where doctors have been deprived of the right to practise for one year. Will the Council of State ensure contact with the Norwegian Medical Association/doctrine on these matters?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1769	In the context of the «Action Correct Tariff Use», the social security authorities have revealed over-consumption of the tariff system that has resulted in reimbursement claims against doctors. There are now two legal decisions in cases between the Swedish National Anti-Fraud Office and doctors concerning such repayment claims. In the judgment in Jären's court in March of this year, the Rikstrygdeverket was satisfied with its application for redress. In this case, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health had also decided that the doctor should be excluded from practising for a period of time. The Court of First Instance held that the exclusion clause of the department was valid. In the recent ruling in Ryfylke Herredsretsretten, the Riksstrøgdeverket lost on important points and the recovery claim was severely reduced. As the representative Johnsen is familiar with, the judgment in Jæren's court is appealed to the Law of Lawyers. I have been informed that the Rikstrøgdeverket will rely on the ruling in Ryfylke's lordship. The representative's question is that, at the judgment of the Lawyer's Court of 17 July 1998, the medical practitioner concerned was informed that the State should not apply the exclusion decision until a final judgment has been given in the case. Consequently, the judgment of the Lawyers' Court does not apply to the exclusion decision itself but is valid at the time of the implementation of the decision. On the basis of the judgment of the Lawyers' Court, the State has requested oral proceedings under Gulating Lawyers' Law. The Medical Association has, as you know, expressed dissatisfaction with the procedures and practices of social security authorities in the reimbursement requirements against doctors in the context of the Action Correctness of Taxation. The association has, among other things: have been concerned that doctors must document their tariff use through the submission of patient records. I am aware that the procedure in many of these cases has been long, and that this has caused medical uncertainty. However, these aspects must be seen in the context of the scope and complexity of the project. The length of the procedure is also related to the fact that the GMP Committee was out of function for a longer period of time. The Rikstrøgdewerk will assess the amount of the repayment requirements in the light of, inter alia: the procedure in each case. The Swedish Social Security Agency has now decided that responsibility for the settlement of medical care and the settlement of treatment should generally be concentrated in special offices, usually one in each state. These regional offices will have a sufficient amount of evidence, analytical competence and, in consultation with the Agency’s advisory doctor, sufficient insight into clinical medical activities to ensure that the treatment process can be qualitatively sound and effective. The regional offices are under construction. It will be assessed to give regional offices the power to take decisions in these cases, so that county offices become the appeal body. In that case, such cases will no longer be dealt with centrally in the Swedish National Works Agency. The question of whether doctors are required to document their tariff practices in journal printing is now under assessment in a separate working group with representatives from the National Agency for Drugs and Drug Addiction. I can otherwise inform you that there is now ongoing contact between the Medical Association, the National Agency and the Department to ensure optimal cooperation between the social security system and the doctors in this field, as the representative Johnsen calls for.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1788	I thank you for your answer. I had a question to the Minister of Health in ours, and that became the following: ‘Can the Minister of Health look at the possibility of postponing the entry into force of the decision into force of the judgment?’ It was the decision taken by the Council of State, and the Minister of Health then answered in conclusion that he felt that they were ‘for a safe reason’ by anticipating events, by trying to exercise human rights in order to pass judgment before judgment was given. Here the department – under the leadership of the Christian People's Party – chose to judge before this judgment was delivered. It is quite remarkable that at the end of the Gulating Law, the following is stated: ‘Until there is a final judgment on the decision of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health of 29 April 1997, or if the parties agree otherwise or otherwise be decided by the court, the State may not take the decision against Roald Byre.’ What's the point here is that the Council Decision is set aside. It's serious in itself. Human rights have come on, and this is done by the Christian People's Party. My question is: can the Minister of Health view this as all right, or does he think this is reprehensible?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1807	I do not intend to go into a polemics with the representative Johnsen on a matter that is now pending before the courts. What I have to take a sharp distance from, however, is that the decision to which reference is made from the kgl concerned. resolution, should be to rely on human rights, or should be to make a judgment. I am referring to the fact that the government was actually informed that the department's exclusion decision was valid when the case was in Jären's jurisdiction. With regard to the further handling of this case, I have said that, in the light of the judgment of the Lawyers' Court, the State has requested oral negotiations at the Gulating Lawyers' Court, and I believe that all parties are well served that those negotiations take place at the Gulating Lawyers' Court and not in the Storingssalalen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1812	I thank you for the answer, which I am absolutely not satisfied with. There is a judgment of law here. It is not a matter that is before the courts – not the one to which I refer with the one doctor. It's finished in Gulating Law of Law. Gulating the law has made it quite clear that the decision that was taken in the Council of State was wrong. It is quite serious – for me, it is at least serious, whether it is not serious for the Minister. That one goes out and creates a practice that causes people to be judged while the case is pending before the courts is completely unacceptable, and I want to give clear notice of that from this pulpit. I think the state will make a lot of money to go in and negotiate with this doctor, get a conclusion to the matter and also stop the other issues that are going on. The Council of State, the Ministry of Health and Social Security are here in a minefield, and I hope that the minister will also see that he is.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1817	There is no doubt that the issues we are talking about here are difficult issues, demanding issues both for the authorities and for those involved in them. I have said a lot about what is being done by the authorities to improve the quality and speed of the procedure we are talking about. I have also said that there is a good dialogue now between the Norwegian Medical Association, the Rikstrygdeverket and the Department on the follow-up to these matters. Let me just say, without resuming the discussion about a case before the courts, that what goes on with this ruling in Gulating Lawyers' Law of 17 July 1998, is not the validity of the decision in kgl. the resolution of May of this year, but there are questions as to whether the decision is to be implemented before a final judgment is given. There's a difference between the two things.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1825	I would like to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘Statoil and ICA/Hakon have now entered into an intention agreement to establish a joint company, inter alia, concerning the ownership and operation of Statoil’s 1500 service stations in Scandinavia. It is working on an owner model that means that the ICA/Hakon Group buys approx. 50 pst. of the shares in the new company. In view of the Hakon Group's recent behaviour, and the fact that this is a direct step towards the privatisation of a part of Statoil's business, can the Council of State clarify whether it is appropriate to intervene with the company?»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1834	There is strong competition in the service station market. The services and range of goods at the service stations have changed a lot. Today it is possible to buy both hot food, groceries and other goods at the gas stations. Stations that only offer car service are, in fact, difficult to find. Cooperation and alliances have become an important part of the reality of many companies in order to survive at all in the industry. Like other companies, Statoil must be able to assess and relate to the new market situation. The background to the plans for the restructuring of Statoil’s retail activities is mainly low profitability. Therefore, a new service station concept must be implemented. All Statoil stations in Scandinavia shall be part of a new Scandinavian company. Statoil has considered it reasonable to bring a professional partner into the new company. Ownership and voting rights of partners shall not exceed 50 pst. ICA/Hakon was considered an attractive partner following an assessment of potential candidates. ICA is Sweden's largest retail chain. The Hakon Group is one of the three major retail chains in Norway. The Hakon Group is otherwise owned 55 pst. by Canica AS and 45 pst. by ICA. Statoil wishes to implement measures adapted to the tough competition. In addition, Statoil aims to maintain its position as a nationwide service station chain. Restructuring is considered by Statoil to be absolutely necessary to enable this last objective to be maintained. No final agreement on partnership between Statoil and ICA/Hakon has been concluded. The case will be brought before the general meeting of the company when it is mature, i.e. after the Board of Directors has addressed the owner and the Government will at that time take a final decision on the issue of ownership and any partner. The government wants to continue Statoil as a full-time state company. It is also prepared in St.meld. No 46 for 1997-98, the oil notification submitted to the Stortinget. In particular, the core of the country's ownership of Statoil must be that which covers oil and gas production and transport. Then we will discuss an adaptation related to other parts of the business when it may be necessary to maintain operations in some areas or to ensure good enough and wide enough offers. In this specific issue, the Government will focus on how the company can contribute to ensuring the operation of the service stations, and in particular on how to ensure the possibility of maintaining a nationwide service.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1847	I thank the Council of State Arnstad for the answer. I have a couple of follow-up questions that might clarify a little bit more what is the Government's policy. When Norol was created, later Statoil, in 1975, it was established that the state was to operate gas stations itself. As I now see the Council of State, it is still the Government's policy, and the Government's firm view that national ownership is important. Then I can see nothing but that a Swedish head owner, simply Hakon, cannot go into a collaboration with Statoil, but I would like the views of the Council of State on this. I would also like to comment on the behaviour of this owner, if any, in relation to various cooperative and peasant organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1856	Let me first underline, as I said in my answer, that the government has not taken a decision on the question of a possible partnership and a possible partner in this matter. It is a matter that will be discussed when the time comes. What we have announced in the oil notification is also clear, namely that oil and gas production on a Norwegian base, transport, i.e. what is called upstream activity, is a core activity and should be state-wide. So I think we can do well to have an open debate on the adaptation of downstream activities. It's not like today that everything is whole time. If you look at Navion, it's 80/20 pst. by Statoil/Rasmussen. Statoil is also not the heathier of the Tent Goods, nor of Borealis. What has changed since 1975 and until today is that in 1975 the gas stations sold petrol. Today they iron shirts and sell hot sausages and other groceries. The question is, is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is That is a question I think in the political environment we should discuss quite openly and sensibly.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1863	We may have a long and exhaustive debate in Stortinget about the state selling sausages, but it's not the main point here. The main point is that a company that is 55 pst. owned by a Swedish company, shall enter a Norwegian State company. That is what I think is contrary to what is stated in the Adult Declaration of National Ownership. So I also challenge the Council of State when it applies to this owner who is now inside, and who has gone very far towards cooperatives, peasant organizations, and who will almost put down Norwegian agriculture, because it is so little functional and operates with such poor prices: is this a non-profit partner for the Norwegian state oil company?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1870	First, let me say that I still believe that the representative of Langeland should not forge what will be the final position on the issue of allowing a division of ownership – because there is one question – and then on which partner is the most relevant. Statoil sails have an opinion about it, and it is natural that the government will come back to it when we get it presented to the general meeting of the company. But I think that we are well served to take an open debate on what goes on about the difference between the core business, the management of natural resources, which is obviously meant to be state-wide, and the adaptation of the more external business. Let me also say that the distinction between national and international is not as clear as it has been in the past. It is clear that Borealis operates in European petrochemistry, and, in the case of Navion, it is possible to ask about the national ownership of the entering partners. In addition, when it comes to the position and role of the Hakon Group in relation to Norwegian agricultural cooperation, there is a lot to be said about it, but it is not my role as Minister of Oil and Energy to comment on it from the Parliamentary Chair.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1882	I'm trying again - to the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘Statoil has about 200 property properties that SFT considers to be impure. For example, the company spends much more on various forms of sponsorship than on cleaning up old environmental sins. The company uses approximately 5 million. annuals to clean up old gas stations emissions and an equivalent amount in old gas stations. Is the Council of State satisfied with the management of the case by the company, and will the General Assembly, if appropriate, intervene in order to speed up the cleaning up process?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1891	The question raised by the representative of Langeland leaves the impression that Statoil is using more for the sponsorship of culture and sport than for environmental measures. That, as far as I know, does not lead to correctness. The awareness of environmental pressures related to the use and handling of different substances has developed strongly within Statoil in recent years. At my discretion, Statoil is consciously responsible for the handling and storage of petroleum products. On the one hand, the company is working to prevent pollution, and on the other hand, they are also working to clean up acute pollution. The company works within the applicable laws and regulations and in understanding and cooperation with environmental protection authorities. With regard to the operation of refuelling stations and refuelling facilities in particular, Statoil is working to limit and clean up pollution associated with these facilities. Statoil has surveyed the level of pollution at all its service stations and service facilities in Norway. Measures necessary for pollution are taken on a case-by-case basis. On the gas station side, Statoil in Norway uses approx. Twenty million. kr annually for preventive measures, and a maximum of 5 million. kr annually for cleaning after acute contamination. The company is also spending $5 million. kr annually for clean-up after emissions and pollution from tankers. And they're going to be 15 million. kr for preventive environmental measures on tankers. Based on the information I have, I cannot see that this is a matter for the general meeting of the company, but I assume that Statoil always complies with the rules laid down by the authorities for preventive and remedial measures regarding pollution. Moreover, it is to the greatest extent in the company’s own commercial interest to contribute to the clean-up and prevention of environmental damage.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1902	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I understand that the Council of State is reasonably satisfied with Statoil's efforts when it comes to cleaning up old environmental sins. The information referred to in the question is from Pressetalsmann Per Wangen in Statoil, who says that a person spends less money than the state council has now stated. That was the starting point for the problem. Then we have different information about this. What I still want to challenge the Council of State is precisely this with whether the Council of State is using the ability to control Statoil in certain directions. We know, of course, that if the Council of State wanted to take an initiative in relation to a faster clean-up of oil tankers, it would probably be possible for Statoil to take part. We know that Statoil is making a lot of foreign policy splinter, as one of the Norwegian Government could also have any idea of it. I am a little out to know if the Council of State is willing to take a little more control over the Norwegian State oil company, in which I myself am also the owner.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1909	Let me underline two things. One is that in environmental matters it is probably always possible to do things better. That's almost always an improvement potential. It's my impression that Statoil is sincerely committed to trying to improve its activities in terms of the environment, including in this area. In the Statoil Group as a whole, 600 million are being used today. kr annually for environmental, health and safety measures. These are the total resources used by the Statoil Group on these challenges, which I, as Minister of Oil and Energy, believe to be a considerable sum. There are also a considerable number of people employed in Statoil solely to deal with those issues. So I want to stress, because it's implicit in the representatives of Langeland's question that there are SFTs that have counted some properties as polluting, that as far as I know, there is no SFT-monitoring of the pollution at Statoil's gas stations and tankers; in fact, Statoil's sea is the one that has identified the environmental challenges they face.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1916	The actual information is based on information from the Evening Post, which says that the SFT has informed us about this. I can't verify it more than what I'm saying right now. What I want to challenge the Council of State at once is precisely this with environmental issues. State councils said Statoil spends 600 million. kr, and that's a lot of money. But if an e.g. looking at what other oil companies invest in areas that I know are important to the Council of State, namely alternative energy and such things, there is still much that the Council of State could do to ensure that Statoil was involved on the environmental side.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1923	I believe it is important that the authorities, both the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the environmental protection authorities, are in constant dialogue with oil companies – including Statoil – on environmental issues and on how to improve environmental management. I also believe that Statoil has an interest in developing its work in the field of renewable energy. But I do not think it is right or desirable that the Council of State should use its ownership role through the General Assembly to go directly into the more daily handling of issues in Statoil, whether environmental issues or other issues. That dialogue must be maintained as an overall dialogue between the political authorities and the oil companies as such and the oil industry as such and also between the environmental protection authorities and the oil industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1931	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘By NRK radio on Monday 2 November 1998, it was known that Statnett SF will increase the network tariff by 40 pst. from 1999 onwards, and that the NVE had approved the new tariffs. What is the reason for this formidable increase in prices?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1940	Statenet owns about 80 pst. by the central network of Norway and thus the operator of the so-called central network system. It is Statnet as a central network operator that is responsible for setting the transmission tariff in the central network each year. The tariff is set on the basis of guidelines provided by the NVE, but it is not correct that the NVE has approved the new tariffs. The central network tariffs are decided by the Governors of Statnett after discussions with representatives of the users of the central network, in particular the SFO. It is true that the central network tariff has increased significantly from 1998 to 1999. However, the price increase has no bearing on the costs of Statnet during the same period. The accounts of the central network are completely separate from those of Statnett’s own accounts. The central network leases central network facilities from different site owners, including Statnet. Over time, the accounts of the central network shall be balanced. If revenue is too low, less revenue may be required through increased net tariffs later. Similarly, excessive revenues will have to be repaid through lower tariffs at a later date. At the end of 1997, according to Statnett, the central network had an increase of about EUR 15 billion. 300 million. kr. Statnett therefore reduced the 1998 tariff. Since the customer mass also changed in the central network from 1997 to 1998, Statnett later found it reasonable that this additional income was also returned directly to those who were customers in 1997. This means, in other words, that Statnet has repaid its revenue twice during 1998. The change in the variable components of the central network tariff has also contributed to the fact that the total amount of less revenue in the central network seems to be around. 450 million. kr at the end of the year. Following a dialogue with the Joint Organisation of Statnet customers, Statnett has decided to collect this minor income through the central network tariff over two years, i.e. approx. 225 million. in 1999 and the remainder in 2000. This is why Statnett announced an increase in central network tariffs for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1953	I thank the Council of State for your answer. That the NVE has not approved the tariffs, I take note, but through the NRK it was said that the NVE had approved the tariffs. That's how I found the information. But even if the price increase is over two years, it's just full 40 pst. growth in the price of electricity transport for ordinary consumers and large consumers. For large consumers in business, this may constitute large amounts of money, e.g. for Hydro it is located on Sunndalsøra approx. Three million. kr in extra costs, and I also heard on the local radio that the corresponding costs for Hydro Årdal were approx. Four million. kr. These are industries that are actually operating in difficult markets, and where short-term price increases may mean something when it comes to being able to plan in the long term. My supplementary question is: What will the Council of State do to make consumers feel safe that no corresponding price increase will be imposed in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1964	Because the legislation says that less or more income will be covered in the following year, one will be able to get that kind of rash in the years to come. It simply means that one has some kind of periodication of the tariff over the years. It can give you an increase of one year, but it can also give you a decrease of another year. This does not mean that one pays more than it costs, but that means that if the system operator has calculated a minor income in the current year, it has to be paid back next year. I assume that once the Joint Organisation of Statnet customers and Statnett seas have agreed on how to collect the reduced income, the authorities will deal with it. However, we also assume that state networks as a central network operator will in future have to seek to avoid such huge fluctuations in the pricing of the network services in the central network that we are experiencing now, for the next year and perhaps for the year 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1971	The background to my supplementary question was the answer that the Council of State gave, saying that over time the central network bill should balance, because then one must have the expectation that an intervention and see what one can do if one cannot have more realistic forecasts when it relates to the network's prices in the future. Statnet is a monopoly on transport in the central network, and balance of accounts is very important. But at the same time, we also see that the government benefits from taking dividends, for example. in the Yellow book only with 157 million. NOK, but adjusted for 125 million. kr. It's a great benefit for Statnett, too, and I think it's hard for consumers to see that these funds do not come from the principle that the account should be balanced, and that one should not spend more money on Statnet's transmission system than it costs the individual consumer.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1978	I believe that part of the question that now comes from the representative Nistad must be due to a misunderstanding in the sense that price increases and tariffs in the central network have nothing to do with Statnet's other activities. It therefore has nothing to do with the costs of Statnett or, for that matter, the dividends that the authorities charge from Statnett. The accounts of the central network are completely separate from Statnet’s own accounts, and the central network leases central networks from various plant owners, including Statnet. What happens when a periodiciser — that is the way one actually does it with income and expenditure — is that if one has calculated too little one year, it has to be included next year. There is a clear rule between the Joint Organisation of Statnet customers and Statnett. But what there might be reason to look closely at are the big fluctuations a sheep from this year to next year. Such large rashes are not normal. 1998 is the result of very special circumstances, namely the question of the extent of the central network and a change in the tariffs at the energy level.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e1997	This question has been raised. Question 27 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e2012	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e2025	This question has been raised. Then we're done with case no. 1 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-18.ana.ud1731e2036	There is no record.
