ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e25	The called alternates, for Hordaland County Sigurd Grytten and for Telemark County Gunn Marit Helgesen, have taken the seat. The representative Per Ove Width shall apply for leave from 27 October to 29 October in order to attend a meeting chaired by the North Atlantic Assembly in Vienna. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and approved.The representative of the unit, Jan Th. Langaard, be called to meet during leave.Jan Th. Langaard is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e56	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e61	I suggest Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e66	Asmund Kristoffersen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Asmund Kristoffersen is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. The representative, Harald Tom Nesvik, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e71	On behalf of the representatives of John I. Alvheim, Øyvind Vaksdal and myself, I would like to propose that the medicinal product Aricept and similar medicinal products for Alzheimer's disease come under the blue prescription scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e76	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e95	On Monday, the Stortinget received notice from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik and the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Gudmund Restad State Council Odd Einar Dørum The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. Some representatives have signed up in advance with a request to ask questions. The representatives who, in addition to them, wish to ask questions are asked to stand up. - Thank you. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Thorbjørn Jagland.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e111	The overall picture now needs to be to reduce the high level of interest rates and to prevent increasing unemployment. In the national budget, the government estimates that unemployment will not increase next year. The Labour Party said when the National Budget was presented, that next year's economic structure could lead to increasing unemployment. This was denied by the Minister of Finance the same evening, among others. in TV debates. The Directorate of Labour is now calling for a serious warning. In a letter dated 15 October, the Directorate of Labour said that unemployment could start to increase as early as next year and rise to a total of 70 000 by the end of 1999. Signals in the construction industry and in the workshop industry also point in the same direction. I would like to hear whether the Prime Minister has changed his view of what is in the national budget, and what was said when it was presented two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e120	I agree with the representative, Mr Igland, that two main objectives of economic policy are to secure jobs and bring unemployment further down and reduce interest rates. So far, the Government does not have the basis to change the assumptions laid down in the national budget, that unemployment could decrease somewhat even in 1999, from 3.3 pst. to 3.2 pst. But these are assessments that are carried out continuously in the relevant departments, and of course we also obtain assessments and material from other competent bodies, such as the Directorate of Labour, the Statistical Centre and international expertise, and we will come back with assessments of this on an ongoing basis, and among other things. in the context of the revised national budget, which is, of course, the usual opportunity to revise both assumptions and, where appropriate, proposals. The economic cycle tax – and it is in the name of the economic cycle tax – was intended to dampen an investment pressure at that time. If it should change, it is also in the nature of the case and the name that the economic cost can be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e129	I am pleased that the Government is considering this on an ongoing basis. I think that's wise. But it may be too late to review it in the revised version, at least to stick to what the Directorate of Labour says in his letter. The task now has to be to make a call about the labour market, business and businesses. They will now fight with a price increase twice the level of our trading partners and with failing foreign markets. I would like to hear if the Government believes it is still wise to increase taxes and taxes that will exacerbate the strange price rise, and I would like to hear if the Government believes it is still wise to make such a large cut in labour market policy as the Government has proposed. It is the person who can remedy any increase in leave beyond the year. Both the NHO and the employee organisations have strongly warned against both of these measures.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e138	The government has presented its draft budget to the Stortinget and, of course, is on it. In the case of taxes, there is an approximation of taxes on capital income and taxes on employee income and the conversion gives tax relief or unchanged tax on income up to approx. 300,000 kroner. It is only above the amount that it comes at my discretion relatively modest tax increases. In the case of the charging scheme, the main component is an increase in the electricity charge of 2,5 cents. This increase is much less than the decrease in electricity prices has been throughout 1998, approximately. 6 cents, and goes back to the peak at the turn of the year 1996/1997, there has been a reduction of 11 cents, so that in 1999 electricity prices are likely to be cheaper than they were, for example. last year. But it is an interesting signal if the Workers' Party is now going to go away from tax increases, because there are significant tax increases in the Stabilisation Programme of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e145	There will be follow-up questions from Sylvia Brustad.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e148	I think it's quite remarkable that the government does not consider it appropriate to change the assumptions about what it has put into the budget in relation to the prospects of unemployment, when the speech of the figures is as clear as it is. In particular, young people, the long-term unemployed and immigrants have experienced a significantly worse situation only in the last few months than was the case before. And as Thorbjørn Jagland said, both LO and NHO now warn against cutting further so that the situation gets worse for those who are already unemployed, and to prevent more people from becoming unemployed. The Prime Minister did not answer questions from Jagland about the Government's view that it is wise to reduce the number of action places to about 8 000 for next year, which is thus a halve of the current year. I also want the Prime Minister's reply as to whether the Government believes it is wise, as it has proposed in the budget, to cut the labour market seat by more than 140 years' work. Is that the answer to the question of how to get more people to work?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e155	At the end of the last quarter of 1998, the number of action places will be 10,000, and in view of the steady decline in unemployment and the significant increase in employment, the Government considers it appropriate to reduce the number of action places in 1999 to 8 000. But of course, this is also an instrument that is continually being assessed. Should unemployment start to rise again, of course one will also have the opportunity to adjust this. With regard to the tasks of the labour market parliament, we believe that with the significantly lower level of unemployment we now have compared to a few years ago, it is right to adjust the size of the labour market seat in accordance with the reduced tasks. I think it's now too early to conclude that it's going to be a completely different development than what we saw a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e165	The Prime Minister just said that one of the main components in terms of tax increases to which people are most exposed will be the increased electricity charge. He explains that the electricity price this year has gone down. Now it's like the power price depends not least on how full the magazines are, or another way of saying, how bad summers we get. Then my question is, why is the government now betting that we will also have a bad summer next year? Or is it that if we get a dry summer to next year, yes, then the government is willing to reverse its proposal on charging?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e170	Now I'm aware that someone from the opposition has accused this government of causing bad weather last summer, but I think that may vary with varying governments. I myself was on vacation in the United Kingdom last summer, and there is a working party government, but it was an unusually bad summer weather! However, the rainy summer has made the warehouses quite full, and that means that the electricity prices are also low in 1999, which of course is influenced by how the magazines are over the fall and winter. That is why we believe that this increase in fees is fully sound. It is also sensible in terms of environmental policy and energy policy – as many parties have previously spoken for. This is an increased expenditure for households of an average of NOK 2 per person. Today, and in fact, most people can save themselves by a little bit of rational power usage. When it comes to the time off, which is a lot of people, I'm going to show you that it actually went down by almost 8 000 as late as the month of September.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e179	In the state budget currently under consideration by the Storting, the Government has taken the view that interest rates should be lowered. That is the reason for the great tightening that the Government has done. The government itself says that you want a tight budget for tightening up, and then my question to the Prime Minister is the following: Look now that the causal link is not so clear, seeing that the government gets a majority to tighten up 9 billion kroner. In addition, we have a reduced interest rate for households, families and businesses of NOK 20 billion. So maybe we're facing a situation with a tightening of NOK 29 billion. Does the Prime Minister agree that if this happens, will it lead to a dramatic increase in unemployment and for very many families and businesses significant problems? When the state budget was presented, it was received with a yeast on the stock exchange, it has had no significance for interest rates either before or after. My challenge to the Prime Minister is then: if, in fact, interest rates do not automatically go down because of a tight budget, what will the Government do to ensure that the ordinary household, the ordinary family, the usual enterprise gets a lower level of interest rates, if the market itself is not able to sort this out?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e186	It's weird how times can change. A few weeks ago, there was a rather unisony demand – without which I would include SV – that this government now had to show that the center parties can not only distribute money, but tighten it up. So the government is putting forward a budget with a tightening of up to 1 pst. – 9 billion kroner – and then it suddenly went wrong – when the central government has shown that we can tighten up and not just distribute money. It's not like there's a gigantic cooling going on. I have to draw attention to the fact that only in the last month there was an increase in consumption of approx. 25 pst. on important consumables in relation to the previous year. It's not that people have suddenly completely stopped buying and consuming. The acceptance by the market of the ‘gesp’ budget is probably due to the fact that they had taken the view that the Government had made a reduction on that level and therefore there was no immediate response. The uncertainty is now about what the Storting may adopt, and that is the responsibility of the Storing.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e191	Before we move on to the next main question, from Carl I. Hagen, the President will stress that in the spontaneous Question Time, speaking time must be held, and the President will remind the representatives of this.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e197	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Professors Øystein Nordeng and Svein S. Andersen and research assistant Per Anker-Nilssen has just published a book at the University publishing house entitled «Climate for all the money! Climate policy – economic risk to Norway?’, including: is: ‘It is uncertain whether we are really facing new, serious climate problems, but fear and a wave of mood can be exploited politically.’ With regard to the effects of the government's climate policy, namely to work for the lowest possible demand for oil and thus a falling oil price, the authors write: «For the Norwegian people, the practical consequences will be higher interest rates, higher taxes and lower public services, in addition to lower living standards and reduced employment.» In other words, the policy of the Government in terms of climate is in direct contradiction with the interests of the Norwegian people, and what they claim in the book is also consistent with the facts. Will the Government reconsider its climate policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e212	The government does not believe that our climate policy is contrary to the interests of the Norwegian people, because it is in the interests of both the Norwegian people and the entire world population that we have reduced greenhouse gas emissions and, in particular, CO2. This is the broad international consensus on it. On the basis of the recommendations of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the major Kyoto climate conference was held in Japan in December 1997 and an ambitious, binding international agreement has been reached that Norway and other countries have to follow up. It would be very bad if Norway were to break up with the commitments we have made here. The government has followed this up in two ways in relation to the Storting already, both in the climate communication and in proposals for green taxes. This has been dealt with in the Stortinget, and the Government is now of course tasked with following up what a majority in the Stortinget, that is to say a shift to something more green taxes, and we are also in the process of investigating the bulk of the population asked for – a further quota system. Since the representative Hagen is concerned that power should lie in the Storting – and that is right in a parliamentary system – I stress that the Government is following up the expressed will of the majority of the population. But it is clear that climate policy will always be the subject of ongoing debate and assessment, and should one be convinced of new recognition in this area, I assume that the majority of the population will also do so, and the Government will act accordingly.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e221	As the Prime Minister himself knows, one of the advantages of being in government is that one can take the initiative towards the Storting to change a policy if the Government on an independent basis finds that this would make sense. And now it's like the Government and the majority have chosen an economic policy based on the fact that a stable exchange rate is more important than a stable and low interest rate for the Norwegian people, businesses and municipalities. The Prime Minister has just contradicted himself. He has claimed that one of the main reasons for the pressure on the Norwegian currency is lower oil prices, and lower oil prices are a direct consequence of the climate policy outlined here by the Prime Minister, namely lower demand for oil and thus lower revenues and lower exchange rates and higher interest rates. Directly, climate policy is therefore a major cause of the misery that the Government itself claims it will address through a tight budget, so here the Prime Minister contradicts itself.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e226	No, here the Prime Minister does not contradict himself – that is a good line in what I have expressed here. I must also, because time does not allow me to go into detail, refer Carl I. Hagen to the Government documents that provide a solid professional background for the proposals the Government has promoted. In the case of lower oil prices, it is true that there is a main reason for the pressure on the Norwegian krona and thus an increase in interest rates. But there is a broad technical consensus that the low oil price is largely due to the economic crisis in Japan that has reduced oil demand. This is such an important fact that it surprises me that the representative Hagen overlooked it in his reasoning. I am aware that the Progress Party wants a different monetary policy, which the time and again claims would lead to a lower interest rate. Now time allows me nothing but to refer to a look-up in today's business yesterday, where a number of prominent economists refuted Hagen's reasoning.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e235	We move on to the next main question, from Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e238	I've been out a lot in the last few weeks, and that's because SV wants a full overview of what's the situation in Kommune-Norway. In particular, we are concerned about the situation for children and young people, and for the school. What we see when we travel around is that especially high school is in a miserable constitution in many places. Yesterday I was in Sogn and Fjordane...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e246	Who's going to ask the question?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e249	To the Prime Minister. He's ready to answer everything! Yesterday I was in Sogn and Fjordane and I talked to municipal politicians who are telling about the following reality: they've been tightening up their budgets for many years in a row. Now, the situation is that they have to tighten up either by cutting down care services, by cancelling people in care services, or by leaving schools. I can take the Gloppen municipality, which now has to tighten up 8 million. kr on a previously lean municipality budget – and it is a municipality with 5,800 inhabitants. Is it the government's welfare policy that schools should be laid down and cared for?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e256	No, it's not the government's policy, so it's important to have a good municipal economy. Here the government has followed up what we proposed for the Storting in ours and got a majority, namely a growth in the municipal economy next year at well 1 pst. What is a problem with the local economy is that there are quite different relationships between municipalities and municipalities. Some municipalities are facing such problems as Kristin Halvorsen here gave an example, other municipalities are better off. And it is actually also rapporteurs this autumn who have dared to say that they are doing quite well. What will be very important for municipalities, so that they can maintain good welfare and provide the services they need, is that we can bring the interest rate back down. The level of interest rates is a heavy financial burden for the local government sector, as well as a wage settlement in spring that gave them large and increased expenditure. That is why the Government has set up a budget adapted to the economic situation, in order to reduce interest rates. It will be the best handshake we can give to Kommune-Norge today, and I also think it is important that all parties on the Stortinget stick to it as a guide to the budgetary procedure in the autumn – a budget that is tight enough to strengthen confidence in the Norwegian economy and to reduce interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e265	I don't know about the lesson that goes against the rapporteurs of the Christian People's Party or the Central Party, who are now sitting and feeling at one point, and that is that they are not compensated for a fair but expensive wage settlement in the municipalities, which also turns into increased pension expenditure, and which, as the Prime Minister said, means that the municipalities have increased expenditure due to the level of interest. What's real about it is that a lot of municipalities will have to tighten up the areas that the whole Stortinget keeps saying are the most important, namely care and school, because there's no money to take anywhere else. Now I have noticed that both the Right Party and the Advance Party have said that they want 3 billion more to be spent on the local economy. And we have also noticed that the government parties have said that now they are going as soon as the Right and the Advance Party are ready, in negotiations with the Right and the Advance Party, among others. about this. Is it that the central government is going to find itself in an even worse local economy as a result of the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e279	Now, I don't think we're going to be holding the budget negotiations through the Great Britain Chair, it's actually done too much of already this fall. Now I think they're going to be assigned to where they're going to take place. However, it is a serious belief on the part of the Government that it is important that the local economy is good. And this is always a dilemma: when you're going to tighten up a government budget to get the interest down, which is now the main goal, you can't afford as much as you want to for a number of good purposes – even those that Kristin Halvorsen here was in. But we believe that the municipal economy that we present in the national budget, after all, is so good and consistent with what we presented to the Stortinget in the municipal economic proposition in ours, that it will be to live with. But that some municipalities have significant problems, we do not ignore them.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e286	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e289	I also have a question for the Prime Minister. The most visible problem in the Norwegian economy is perhaps the high level of interest rates, which is currently about twice as high as in our neighbouring countries. But in many ways, the high interest rates are just an expression that we have some more fundamental problems in the economy, among other things. that we are losing control of the cost growth and the price increase. The government itself estimates in the national budget that we will have a cost increase that is about twice as high as in our neighbouring countries, and an inflation that next year can easily be twice as high as in the countries with which we are dealing. A contribution to this increase in costs is, inter alia, the following: the short-term cost. The Prime Minister said earlier today that it will be assessed during 1999. Does this mean that the economic cycle tax should be fixed in the autumn so that it will apply from 1 January 1999?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e298	I agree with the representative of Stoltenberg that we have an undesirable high interest rate level. I might then remind the representative Stoltenberg, although there is no excuse for today's situation, that in 1992-93 – when the rest of the Workers' Party crashed – the interest rate was a little over 15 p.m., much higher than what we now have. We do not want to get there, and that is why we have tabled a budget which has as its main objective the reduction in interest rates. It's also true that we're in danger of getting a price rise that's going to be good over what our competitors have. We do not want to get attached to that either. We also know that this is significantly related to the spring income statement. It's behind us, and we have to take the consequences. In terms of price developments in 1998, it actually looks somewhat lighter than you could expect. As far as I remember, the last price forecast for 1998 is 2.3 pst. It shows that the Norwegian economy is actually more flexible than what you thought, and it's doing to capture cost impulses in the economy without it turning into a strong inflation. In the case of the short-term charge, we have it under assessment. That doesn't just mean that we'll necessarily evaluate it far in 1999. The Ministry of Finance is now collecting material to provide a more detailed overview of developments in investment. This is a temporary investment tax, and of course it relates specifically to the construction industry. It is too early for us to conclude that we have a different position than what we have proposed, but I can promise that since this is called a business cycle fee, it will only be used if the business cycle warrants it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e312	I thank you for your answer. What I experience is that the government is now opening up so that you can change its position in the autumn to the question of the short-term cost. It's worth noting, because the government asked cabinet questions about that fee as late as June. Moreover, it is worth noting that it is also believed that the Government cannot take responsibility for the interest and cost developments we now have, but again, for example. blame the parties to the wage settlement. Thus, while it is believed that a tight budget for 1999 will yield lower interest rates in 1999, it is considered that the slow budget adopted for 1998 is not responsible for the high interest rates we have today, and I think it is poorly linked.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e319	I strongly reject the fact that the Government does not take its part in the responsibility for economic policy and the level of interest rates. I have just pointed out simple facts in the economy and the previous level of interest we had, for which, of course, the then government had as much responsibility as the current government has for a level of interest that is also too high, but is actually significantly lower than it was in 1992-1993. Of course, the government takes its share of responsibility for this, but one must be allowed to point to other cost-driven factors in our economy. With regard to the short-term charge, what I have said is not surprising, although this fee was included in a proposal on which cabinet questions were asked in ours, because it is in the name of the fee that this is to be assessed on an ongoing basis. It is a business cycle charge, and it is to be used if and when the economic cycle so warrants. And if the economic cycle changes radically, yes, it's in the nature of the matter that one no longer uses this tool. But this had an effect on contracts concluded after May of this year, so it has already had its significance.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e327	There will be follow-up questions from Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e330	The budget shows that there are quite considerable differences in the inflation forecasts before and after the tax increases proposed by the Government. In other words, a number of fiscal increases have been proposed that are inflationary. The Prime Minister just said that he was concerned about last year's wage settlement. But there will certainly be equal reason to be concerned about next year's pay settlement? I would like to ask if the Prime Minister does not see the correlation between these increased fees and possible increased salary demands next year, then based on real purchasing power developments.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e335	As for the effect of the tax increases on inflation, it is, as I know, at 0.5 pst., so there is a smaller part of the expected price increase due to a tax increase. Otherwise, it is correct, as the representative Jensen says, that it must be purchasing power developments and not isolated taxes that determine what a basis for claims, for example. for the purpose of next year's statement of income. With regard to purchasing power development, one must also bear in mind that due to the income balance we had in our year, there is a large overhang in 1999 that provides an automatic increase in income without new high supplements at the top of the spring. Therefore, we believe that our tax regime is adapted to this situation and does not destroy the development of purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e342	There'll be another follow-up question from Jan Johnsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e345	After what happened in connection with the spring salary settlement and the interest rate increase, it is at least clear to the Right that it is wrong to maintain the cyclical tax. Now I think that there is a business life and is waiting for a clear response from the Government that it will go away from this fee. Can the Prime Minister now state clearly that what was the prerequisite for this cyclical tax has changed from now on? Can we get a clear answer to that, so that business can once again start planning for growth in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e350	It would not be right for me from Stortinget's pulpit to cancel a fee that the other Right has been in favour of adopting, until we have obtained proper material on the development. I have received a letter from the Right parliamentary leader on this – that is. it is the Minister of Finance who has received it – and that letter is now being dealt with in a proper, serious way, and the Right will get a proper answer. In such cases, we cannot rely solely on media projections of the state of development in some parts of the construction industry in certain parts of the country. We need to have a real material to know if the business cycle is really changing. As I said, as late as September, we had a decline in unemployment of almost 8 000, and we need to know if this is really about to turn around, before we can give it the clear answer Jan Johnsen is asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e357	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e360	The government has attacked the Defense. After the one-year anniversary of the Government has been based on the presentation of a long-term defence plan, the same long-term plan will be torpedoed by the budget currently presented. We'll get back to that. But as bad is it that the government obviously believes that military denial is as valuable as earning its protection. And in a budget with a big cut in the defence budget, the military is actually turned into budget winners. This is, in my opinion, a completely wrong course, and my question to the Prime Minister is whether he is willing to adjust the course by agreeing with me that serving his military duty is clearly more valuable than military denial.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e365	What the government has done here with regard to the concept of civil service versus military, is a follow-up of a unanimous HAAKER committee – which, moreover, representatives of the defence were also present – which, as far as I remember, has been endorsed by a majority in the United Kingdom. In the use of concepts, where a person uses a civil service obligation in the same way as a duty to protect, there is no change in policy in relation to civil servants and military protection, so I have some problems understanding the background to the question. It is still the case that those who have a civil duty have longer duty time than those who have a military duty to protect, precisely because refusing military service in a way is to cost, in the sense that a test is the conviction that they have some longer service time. I will not judge those who, for serious reasons of conscience, say no to military protection. It's a conviction that I respect, and that I have no reason to label as inferior to those of us who have been in Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e372	I think this was both a slightly unclear and disappointing answer. It's quite clear that the government could get a different wording from what the government is now pushing in, by applying for a majority in the Grand Duchy, and it would be there if the government parties had been willing to be on it. The equality that we now see, with the use of concepts, cannot, in my view, be seen as anything but an estimate of those that we demand to be willing to give their lives, and that, in given situations, we will also be able to demand to take life. The strange thing is that a government that boasts of being a valuation, in this question, shows sharp value neutrality. That's why I repeat my question, whether or not the Government will be willing to clear up a value choice on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e377	For me, it's actually an important choice of values to show respect for those who have a different conviction than me. The other representative, Jan Petersen, has often underlined this. It has to do with tolerance, and it's an important choice of value. Those who, for a serious reason of conscience, do not find themselves able to enter the military with the use of weapons, they are entitled to respect and another form of service. So this is a follow-up of one, as far as I remember, unanimous HAAKER Committee, where there were representatives of the Defense, and they would never have been involved in anything that could be interpreted as an attack on the Defense. So neither this nor our proposal for a defence budget is an attack on the defense. I repeat: those who have a civil duty have a longer term of service than those who have a military duty to protect. I think that's right, because you have to test the convictions of these people to really test that they have a serious reason to ask for exemption from military protection.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e383	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e386	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. In this year's budget, on the one hand, there is an increase in interest income from central banks of 40 p.m. from 1998 to 1999, on the other hand, it is assumed that the crown will be returned to the initial lease before Christmas, with subsequent interest rate reductions. The answers received by the Progress Party from the Ministry on these questions are relatively bleak, and it may seem that it will not be entirely recognized that these matters have been dealt with to the extent that they conflicted in the budget. At the same time, it is clear that some of this increase in interest income may be due to increased lending frameworks. But I would very much like the Minister of Finance to clarify whether he has used different interest rates here, or what is the reason why at least there may seem to be a relatively significant difference in the interest rates used.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e391	No, the government of course bases the same assumptions on interest rate developments, and it is explained in the national budget and also followed up in answers to questions from, among other things. The party of progress. It's true that we've assumed that the crown should be returned to the normal rental as soon as possible, and that you'll then get an interest rate decrease, but it's over-optimistic if you think that the interest rates can come down to the original rental already at the end of the year. There will be much longer time. For this reason, the average level of interest will, of course, be higher than in 1998, which is the starting point for the calculation of the additional interest income from central banks in the 1999 budget year. I believe this is completely consistent, and it is well explained in the documents sent from the Government to Stortinget, and as I said also followed up in answers to questions from among others. The party of progress.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e396	Now the Finance Minister says that it will take much longer for this announced interest rate decrease to occur. What are the estimates of interest that you operate on when you've defined the government's interest income? Is the increase in interest income solely due to an increase in the lending portfolio at a time when the Government is talking about the slogan of common virtue and emphasising tightening, while the Government has expressed concern about an increase in credit growth? That's where the increase is, and you get 40 pst. increase in interest income? Or have a relatively high level of interest been used and therefore do not believe in this decline in interest rates announced by the Government as a result of a tight budget?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e401	Now I want to remind the representative that we have had a very significant interest rate increase over the past six months. It must be a total misunderstanding if someone has perceived the Government that it is possible to bring the interest back to the initial rental already at the turn of the year, and that no increase in interest rates would be achieved through the year 1999. Then you have read the documents completely wrong. Of course, it's never been the assumption -- it would be an unrealistic assumption in that case. When it comes to how fast you can get the interest back to your original rental, it's impossible to say anything about it. The government has done what we can do about it: aligning fiscal policies with a view to strengthening confidence in the Norwegian economy and getting the krona back to normal rent and then reducing interest rates. Unfortunately, there are also many other factors that affect the krone price and hence the interest rate trend, among others. the low oil prices and the turmoil in the world economy. So giving some sure predictions about how fast this can happen is impossible, but we've made the best judgements in the estimates we've put into the national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e408	There will be follow-up questions from Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e411	It is possible that I heard errors, but I think I heard that the finance minister said that it was ‘realistic’ to assume that interest rates would return to the low level at the turn of the year. But in the national budget – I believe it is on page 45 – the government says that the national budget is based on the fact that the krone price should be back to the initial rent before Christmas, and that the interest rates should then be normalised quickly. «Rash» must mean that, around the turn of the year, the interest rate is in place and the exchange rate is in place before the end of the year. That is at least what the national budget estimates are based on.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e416	No, it's a misunderstanding. We have great hopes of getting back to normal rent during the fall. It's not safe either, but it's a good hope. These include: depending on how the budget is now dealt with here in Stortinget. If a budget corresponding to the tightness proposed by the Government is adopted, the assumptions should facilitate the return of the krone price at the end of the year. But as I said in my previous answer, there's also a lot of other factors that affect the dollar rate. It's a misunderstanding if you've interpreted the government there to say that interest rates will also come back around the turn of the year. It has to take longer.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e423	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e426	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: Mr Restad, Minister of Finance, was recently in Luxembourg and discussed, among others, the following: monetary union with its colleagues in Europe. To Today's Business, Minister of Finance Restad stated that this did not give him any 'aha experiences or new views'. At home, however, there were too many, and then included the crown price, an aha experience when Restad on the same trip told the Swedish newspaper Dagens Nyheter that the level of interest we had in Norway before the summer would be directly harmful to the Norwegian economy. At the same time, the national budget — and the Prime Minister has confirmed it today — has an expressed objective to reduce interest rates. Can Restad now explain to Stortinget what he put in his opinions, and what level of interest does the Minister of Finance think is detrimental to the Norwegian economy? Is it e.g. So 3 pst. will the lower interest rate be detrimental to the Norwegian economy in accordance with Minister of Finance Restad's assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e435	The statements quoted in the News of the Day did not fall during my journey into Europe. They fell at a press conference on Friday after we presented the budget, i.e. on 9 October. The opinions have, in my opinion, been interpreted quite creatively by those who want to criticize the Government and the Minister of Finance. What I said to the News of the Day was that it wouldn't be 'desirable' to get as low an interest rate as what now seems to be the euro rate, which is now assumed to be about 3.2-3.3 pst. Let there be no doubt that the government believes that the level of interest we now have is too high, and that it is a goal that we can bring the rate back to the initial rental as soon as possible and then get the interest rates down as far as possible. But what is desirable? In view of the strong pressure in the economy, it is not desirable – I stress it is desirable – to have too low a level of interest rates, because it will strengthen the pressure, which is already too great. That's what I said to the News of the Day. It has been interpreted in the sense that I either wanted a high level of interest – which I hereby reject – or, as some have also tried to say, that it must mean changing monetary policy. It's quite creative, I think, to be able to interpret my statements like this. If we had had a different monetary policy, an inflation target, and I had received a similar question, I would also have said that it is not desirable that we get neither too strong nor too weak a crown. It is desirable that we have a crown that lies on a normal, natural rent. This is also what I have to interpret in relation to interest rates. It is highly desirable that interest rates fall sharply in relation to today’s level – but not too low, not to a level that increases the pressure in our economy, which is already high.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e446	I would first like to thank you for your answer. It obviously surprises the Minister of Finance, but not so many others that there is always a need to interpret what the Minister of Finance really says about the interest rate question. Last spring, people paid about half of the interest on their mortgages for what they do today, and the Minister of Finance must be understood to mean that the level of interest we had at that time was too low. I think it might be important that the finance minister now further clarify what he is adding at a reasonably low interest rate, and whether that is so that the level we had before the strong interest rates we've had in the last three or four months is a desirable level to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e453	Then we have to go back a little bit in history. At the beginning of 1997, we received a very strong pressure on the Norwegian krona, but in the opposite direction, what has now been seen. So you get too strong a dollar, which made it necessary because of the monetary policy we have, to lower interest rates. It was a consequence of the monetary policy we were conducting. I do not think it is said that the Workers' Party, which was then with the government, felt that it was a strong wish to get the interest so low, because we already had pressure in the economy. Professional economists do not disagree that in isolation it was not desirable to get such a low interest rate, but it was a consequence of the monetary policy we are pursuing. Similarly, my statements have to be interpreted – that you do not want too low an interest rate. And so the euro rate now expected from the turn of the year is likely to be even lower than the level of interest we had at the beginning of 1997.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e460	There will be follow-up questions, first from Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e463	The Minister of Finance, with his reply to Hill-Marta Solberg, has created new uncertainty about Norwegian monetary policy. I want to read what the government itself writes in the national budget, page 45: «... the exchange rate will return to the initial rental at the end of this year and the interest rate will then normalise relatively quickly.» Norwegian monetary policy is one and determined solely on the basis of the krone price and the consideration for a stable exchange rate. If the interest rate is back on the normal level, the interest rate will automatically go down to the normal level, i.e. the European level. So, in answer to Hill-Marta Solberg, the Minister of Finance says that it is ‘not desirable’ with such a low level of pressure in the Norwegian economy. But it is a complete conversion of Norwegian monetary policy. At that time, the Minister of Finance should explain to the Government, possibly drawing the national budget and writing something new, if that is what is now the Government's monetary policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e475	I have noticed that Giske is one of these creative interpreters who have tried to give me a signal about a change in monetary policy. I have rejected it in the media, and let me also reject it here in the Storting. It's gripped out of the air. Money policy is firm. It's nothing more mysterious than what I've been trying to explain in two rounds now, that it's our goal to get the crown down to the normal level and then the interest down to the European level. However, it should not be forgotten that the European level is likely to be lower from 1 January 1999 than the European level per year. Today, which was the European level at the beginning of 1997. It's no more mysterious than that. We want to get the level of interest significantly down from today. So there's a difference between what's desirable and what's actually interest as a consequence of the monetary policy you're running. It is not appropriate to change monetary policy if, in periods, it would lead to a level of interest that is strictly not desirable in other circumstances, but which is the result of a sound monetary policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e480	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e483	I feel the need to get further clarification on this issue. We have now understood that the Government believes that monetary policy should be firm. This means that the exchange rate development should govern Norwegian interest rates alone. So the Minister of Finance says that it is not desirable for the Norwegian interest rate level to be as low as what we would like to see in some European countries, which are also partners and trading partners for many Norwegian companies. Then it's very interesting to know: where does the Minister of Finance think that a proper rent for Norwegian interest will be?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e488	We have written that in the national budget, and there is no contradiction between what is in the national budget and what I have tried to say. That there are many people who try to be creative and interpret me into something other than what I actually meant, I just get to take note. I understand that the Advance Party would like to try to interpret me differently, because they want a different monetary policy. But even if we had the monetary policy of the Advance Party, as I said instead, I would still reserve the right to say that it is not desirable for us to get either too strong or too weak a crown, because it may have adverse effects on the Norwegian economy. But with an inflation target, you could risk it too, just as with our monetary policy today, you could risk getting an interest rate that is, in isolation from the pressure in the Norwegian economy, not lucky, but which nevertheless is a cost that we like to take, because we want to stick to the monetary policy that we actually conduct.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e493	Next follow-up question is from Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e496	It is true that the economy is not an exact science, but at least it is also right to say that the government's policy is not an exact science, because what the finance minister is now saying is very cracking. It's easy to interpret it to the point that the government actually doesn't believe in its own policy. What's in the national budget is that the crown is going back to the initial rental, and then the interest is going back to its normal level. This means that with regard to the measures promoted by the Government in the State budget, which the Government is doing a great deal of work to get through, and the Prime Minister said at the latest in an article here earlier, that the precondition for getting interest rates down is that we are tightening up enough, that the causal link here is not given and is not obvious. On the contrary, there are many who claim the opposite, that such a narrowing will contribute to greater unemployment and a greater decline next year. Now, when Restad says that even if we get the rate back in rent before New Year's, it won't automatically lead to the level of interest we had, it must mean that Restad doesn't trust what he himself has presented, does not trust his own policy and has not provided what he thinks actually works.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e501	Well then, we believe in what we're proposing, and we believe that the mechanisms will work. That's not what I've been saying at all -- what will be the consequences of restoring trust in the Norwegian economy, getting the dollar back to the normal rent, and then getting a reduction in interest rates. There is no reasonable reason in the real economy in Norway that we have as high an interest rate as we currently have. But it's something that we don't have full control over from the Government, because there are factors in the world economy that affect the crown price and hence the interest level. But we have faith in the policy we are pursuing, and to the extent that it is the one that decides, the krone price will come to the right level and the interest rates will gradually come down to the European level again.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e507	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e510	I also have a question for the Minister of Finance. I have to say that after hearing this round, it is no wonder that the Minister of Finance has created uncertainty about what is Norwegian monetary policy. The Minister of Finance said instead that it would not be desirable for interest rates to be too low. Now I don't think that's the problem most people have, but that's a completely wrong reasoning. As long as we have a stable krone price as a target of our foreign exchange policy, one cannot actually drive to regulate interest rates as the level of activity domestically takes place in Norway. That's what the Minister of Finance is now breaking down, sending uncertain signals into the market. What he said to the Swedish newspaper Dagens Nyheter is that it would be directly harmful for the Norwegian economy if interest rates went back to the level of 5.5 p.m., which was the level before the turmoil started in spring. This is not the first time the Minister of Finance creates uncertainty after he has said what he has meant, rather than what he should say. But is it the case that the government no longer assumes that the interest will fall if the crown strengthens in the new year?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e517	I believe that this is a new variant of the same main question, and that it should have been a follow-up question to the main question instead. I have little to add. I have noticed that Børge Burnde is also one of those who have tried to twist my statements to it for my part unrecognizable. Some of the quotes that Burne now came up with, I don't know from what I actually said. But it must then be possible to say that one thing is what we get in interest because we have a monetary policy that involves a relationship between monetary policy and the level of interest rates, another thing is what is strictly desirable or not. That's what I tried to say to the News of the Day, and that's what many economists have said about what happened at the beginning of 1997. The reduction in interest rates that was then followed by the monetary policy that once existed led to a stronger pressure in the Norwegian economy — a pressure that was already high at that time. Therefore, my statement was that strictly speaking, it is not desirable with very low interest rates, but I have not said that we do not get it. It's not the government's policy that we're not going to get such an interest rate level, but it could be a consequence of the monetary policy we're holding on to.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e524	There will be additional questions from Børge Burnde. Furthermore, the President agrees with the Minister of Finance that this is a continuation of the previous issue and will therefore not open up further follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e527	I notice that the Minister of Finance is now trying to turn this into a mistake on the part of the representatives. But the Minister of Finance, of course, said knowingly here that it is not desirable for interest rates to be too low. Then the Minister of Finance did not answer the question of whether it is that with the monetary policy we have today, we can control the level of interest rates by virtue of the domestic demand and the level of activity that we have. Here, too, there is a question of exercising some political wisdom. Of course, what the Minister of Finance says will be given extra emphasis in the situation in which we are. It is not that you should start to question whether it is desirable that the Norwegian interest rate should go too low. There could be a lot of misunderstanding. It also changes quite a lot of the assumptions in the national budget, if it is no longer such that the government believes that the interest rate will decrease if the krona strengthens.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e532	It's not relevant to enter any other assumptions about what interest we're going to have than what's in today's monetary policy. That's the short answer to this, which I've now tried to say over and over again. What I've said, about what was desirable interest from the pressure of the economy, is that even if it's not desirable to get too low an interest rate, we can still get it. There's something that just stays like that, because of a monetary policy we think is right. Interest will decrease when the crown becomes strong enough.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e537	Since we have no time for any more main questions, the President will nevertheless open up a few follow-up questions on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e540	It's unclear what the Minister of Finance actually means, and what he says. Because today he thinks he said that he both believes and does not believe that the krone price is back before Christmas, and that it automatically follows that the interest rates are back at European level approximately simultaneously. The national budget states that the krone price should be in place before Christmas – «at the end of this year», as it says. That's not a small assumption. It's a prime assumption for all of the economic calculations. If the government no longer believes in it, it no longer believes in its own estimates of unemployment. Then we want higher interest rates and higher unemployment than the government thinks, and we want a significantly higher price increase, because if the dollar price is not back before Christmas, of course, the price increase will be significantly higher than what the government has put up in the national budget. It is therefore alarming that the Minister of Finance is unclear as to one of the main assumptions in the national budget, namely the assumption that the krone price is back before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e545	The government's assumption is that the crown price should return to normal rental during the autumn. But Jens Stoltenberg, who has been sitting as Minister of Finance, knows well that it is not the Government nor the Stortinget who alone decides whether this will happen and the basis is laid for a rapid fall in interest rates again. Stoltenberg knows well that e.g. oil prices are of great importance for the assessment of the Norwegian economy and therefore the price at which we get. Stoltenberg also knows that the turmoil we have in the world economy affects a small and open economy like the Norwegian one very strongly. So I think this is to contribute to undue uncertainty, when even one who is a former finance minister is trying to contribute to creating ambiguity about what the government actually wants and stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e550	I have a direct question for the Minister of Finance: Is the goal of the Government to bring interest down to 4.5 – 5 pst. again, or is the goal of stopping at 7 p.m., which is the policy of the Central Party and Lundtigen?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e555	The government's objective, as described in the national budget, is first to bring the crown back to normal rent. Then interest rates will return to the European level.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e564	Then the time for the oral question procedure is over, and we go over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e569	There will be a wide range of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 4 and 5 from the representatives of Karita Bekkelem Orheim and Olav Gunnar Ballo, respectively, to the Minister for Food and Trade, will be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Questions 6 and 7 from the representatives Jan Johnsen and Steinar Bastesen of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, respectively, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, who has left. Question No 8, by the representative Ivar Kristiansen to the Minister for Fisheries, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 10, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment who directs him. At the request of the Minister for the Environment, this question is moved and answered in front of question 16, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 13, from the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration who will direct him. At the request of the Minister of Labour and Administration, this question is moved and answered in response to question 16, i.e.: after the last question. Question 15, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e591	I have the following questions for the Minister for Children and Family: ‘The Government has confirmed that cash support and social assistance should be available to each other and that it is up to the individual municipality to determine this. Vennesla is now reporting that it is possible to get rid of lone dependants as social welfare beneficiaries by receiving cash support. Does the Council of State believe that it is a fair principle that cash beneficiaries who also need social assistance should be able to discriminate from which municipality they live?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e600	I would first like to correct the fact that ‘the government has confirmed that cash and social assistance can be settled against each other’. The government has said that there is nothing wrong with doing this, but not that the municipalities should consider cash support when measuring social assistance. Economic social assistance is provided to people who are unable to take care of their own living and who need help to overcome or adapt to a difficult situation in life. It is a basic principle of the Social Services Act that social assistance should be subsidiary. So all other sources of income should be used before social assistance is available. It is available per year. At present, social services laws do not require local authorities to disregard certain services when the benefits of life support are calculated. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has given guidance to social services laws. The 1993 guidelines suggest that an individual needs test should be carried out on a case-by-case basis on the basis of the economic, social and health situation of the applicant and the family. In the guidelines, municipalities are encouraged to take care of all expenses and revenues when assessing whether a person is entitled to benefits for the maintenance of life and when measuring the benefit. If child benefits are taken into account on the income side, all expenditure on support and care shall be included on the expenditure side. In line with social services laws and current guidelines, municipalities have the option of making sure that the family receives cash support when assessing the right to social benefits and determining the size of the social benefits. This also applies to single carers. Based on the current legislation that allows for discretion, there may be differences between municipalities both in terms of income derived from the calculation of social benefits and in terms of the size of the social benefits paid. This is not necessarily unimaginable, as the cost of living may also vary from municipality to municipality. But the government wants to counteract unparalleled differences between municipalities. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is currently working on revising the state guidelines of the Social Services Act. An objective of this work is the common criterion for granting social assistance. Various issues related to the level of social assistance will be addressed in a major communication on the balancing of living conditions. This message should be submitted to the Stortninget in 1999 on a scheduled basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e617	I interpreted the Council of State's response to that, that it should actually go both winter and spring – at least ours – before there comes clear guidelines for the payment of social assistance. We are, in fact, concerned that this cash support reform, which we were initially against, once it has been implemented, should also benefit the poorest. It is a fact that the well-established and those with good advice will receive NOK 3000 per month if they choose cash support, while those who need social assistance to improve living conditions, depending on the municipality in which they live, may be at risk of being drawn for cash support – money that, in fact, we admit, could have given them a breathing room that could have benefited the children. So, the poorest will be the race as it stood in a Bergens newspaper. Then my question becomes: Until the big news comes, will the Council of State sit still and see that the differences between families of children are increasing, depending on the municipality in which they live, and does the Council of State think that it is consistent with the strong signals given by the Government that it will go to the fight against Difference Norway? Will the Council of State really wait until spring?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e626	At least there's one thing I can cancel right away. I'm not very calm and I'm watching things happen. It's going to be working on things continuously. When it comes to the law here, it's important to look at it. It would have been easy if we had known that all the municipalities had something similar today, so that it was given the same benefits. But I think the questioner knows just as well as I do that there are very big differences between one municipality and the other. So one of the first things this government got into, actually looking at how those who have the least, have it. We want to facilitate a code where there should be no big differences between municipalities. As I said, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is now sending out new guidelines. We actually have guidelines today, and I know that several of the municipalities are not going to include cash support when calculating social assistance. The representative referred to a Bergens newspaper. I have been told by the chairman in Bergen that they have not intended to include cash support when calculating the payment of social assistance. So, if the rules were the same today, this would have been easy. But because there are so many differences, it's not as easy as the representative says it is.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e635	It is true that the rapporteur in Bergen made an important contribution after a very strong pressure from the Action against Social Distress and some political parties. We in the SV want to participate and press for the Government to develop guidelines on minimum standards, minimum standards, in the area of social assistance, so that families with children actually get a decent daily life. We believe, however, that it is not possible to wait for the policy on payment of cash support to come, because it is a fact that the government has issued guidelines on child benefits, and then the cash support could also come on the same route. That is why I really want to challenge the Council of States to issue guidelines as soon as possible, or to help send out guidelines, in terms of cash support and social assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e645	‘parents of cash support’ may choose a flexible residence period in the nursery for their children. This is based on the quadruple State aid scheme underpinning the payment of cash support. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the parents of the 305120 children in this country between 2 and 6 years of age have the same opportunity to choose a flexible residence period for their children, for example 75 pst. residence in kindergarten?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e653	Through the welfare arrangements we have with maternity leave, time account, kindergartens and now last cash support, I feel that toddlers have a good chance of choosing when care is involved. As you know, the right to freedom of choice has been central to the design of the cash support system. The freedom to choose, however, provides a childcare facility of such size and design as to meet the different needs of families with children. The state’s main means of bringing about such a development of nursery services has been, and is still, state support for the operation of kindergartens. For next year, therefore, we have proposed changes to the criteria for the award of operating grants. Changes include a more fine-tuning mask and a marked increase in babysitting for short periods of time. In this way, kindergarten owners need to meet the different needs of families. As Bekettell Orheim's representative points out, it is a strong wish that flexible babysitting time is not limited to the youngest children. This is equally important for children over the age of cash support. This is precisely why we are going to go into our budget proposal to ensure that a more fine-tuned breakdown of the operating surplus for kindergartens is to be applied for all ages, and not just for the year-olds who are entitled to cash support. However, the extent to which the proposed changes result in the individual family being offered in line with their individual needs will depend on the child care providers. Of course, there is no guarantee that kindergartens offer e.g. 50 pst. babysitting time, even if the state support for such upsitting time is increased. In order to get this done, I encourage all the kindergartens to plan so that the nursery facilities can be combined with cash support and other arrangements for leave and various working hours that parents want to take advantage of. For such planning, it is important that kindergarten owners have a good basis to determine. The Ministry has developed a guide for carrying out needs and user studies that I hope will help. This is the information about these days, and there will be a good tool available to all kindergarten owners and municipalities. My department and I have directed several calls to the municipalities and private kindergarten owners to organise the childcare facility flexibly with regard to opening and uptime. We've had a development program over three years, where one of the main goals was just this. I know that a lot of kindergartens today come to their parents' favourites at this point, and I intend to continue to remind them how important it is to offer flexible rest periods.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e664	It is positive that the Minister for Children and Family Affairs states that the freedom to choose requires the provision of childcare facilities to be of such a scale and designed to meet the different needs of families with children. However, the introduction of cash support has led to a decline in the operating base for many kindergartens – some of the sites have been weakened. The action plan for kindergartens aims at maximising the activities in kindergartens in line with the needs of users. A country-wide SIFO survey shows, for example: that almost one user in three needs more flexible use of kindergarten than is currently possible, and more than 40 pst. says that it is bad to pay for an ordinary full day space of five days a week when the need is four. Several have been rejected for 75 pst. place due to the economy of the individual nursery. They pay for a place they don't use. I think it is positive that the Council of State encourages the municipalities, but this is not enough, and I would challenge the Council of State to take much clearer action against the kindergartens in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e673	I would like to repeat what I said in my answer, that the best thing I can do for the municipalities and kindergartens to be so flexible is look at the state transfers to the nursery. And that's exactly what we've been doing, because we've also seen the investigation from SIFO, to which the representative of Bekkelem Orheim referred. We also know from the experience of the development program that user customization must mean greater flexibility. If the representative can't see other positive things with cash support than just this, it has at least forced this flexibility into kindergarten. It has been important for me that this flexibility should also be passed on to the children over three years of age, so that they can have the same offer. Need a 70 pst. place, a get it – and pay for it. But then, in cooperation with the nursery owners and those working in kindergartens, you have to look at the degree of flexibility they have to offer, because there may be cross-cutting interests in providing children with a good supply. We'll talk about this in the big news, and then we'll get back to that problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e683	I understood the Council of State that, by introducing the cash support, she also strongly encouraged kindergartens to adapt their operations to the flexibility it is now providing in the cash support scheme. However, the same strong leadership I can unfortunately see has not come for the parents who are not covered by the cash support. The actual situation is that it is the normal parents – to call them that – who have to pay for the choice of a great deal of flexibility for cash support parents. I expect that when today's flexibility applies to cash support parents, it must apply from today's date to all the other parents here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e688	I want to underline what I tried to say at the end of the previous answer, that flexibility must also look at the stability of children and those who work in the care of children. I invite you to a wide-ranging debate with the preschool teachers and kindergarten owners to get to both. There is something I would like to remind the representative. I am absolutely sure that she has read the budget proposal that the Government has also presented at this point, and then the representative has probably come to realize that from August 1st, we have committed to exactly the same degree of flexibility in the transfers for those over three years and those under three years, in order to achieve what we know parents want. It's actually one of the ways that animal transfer practices we've set up to achieve this flexibility. I believe it is important for us to achieve what the representative is also concerned with, that the offer should be parental, user-adapted. It's going to cost us money, so we've put that in next year's budget. I hope we get support from the Labour Party for that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e698	‘In an interview in Dagbladet on 10 October 1998, the Council of State on issues of non-childhood is more stable than trainees: ‘It is the parents who are to be the stability of children’s lives.’ Does the Council of States consider that quality requirements and stability of the childcare system are irrelevant and that the State should not take such considerations into account in its policies and contribute to making the best schemes available and fairer?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e705	First, a little heart attack: when the quote "It's the parents who are supposed to be the stability of the children's lives" can meet resistance and ambiguity, I don't understand how to express myself so that no one should blame us for something unethical here. But the representative Karin Andersen tries from an interview in a newspaper to give me opinions I don't have at all, so ask me if I find quality and stability requirements are not relevant when it comes to child supervision schemes. I mean myself, I've tried several times to make it clear, both in this room and in the media, that it's parents themselves who are going to decide what kind of care their preschoolers should have, and not the public. If parents choose kindergarten, which is what the public offer is, I'm the first to agree that the state and the municipalities should provide the best possible qualitative and stable offer, at the right price, so that those who want it can also use the offer. However, all parents do not want public child care and choose private solutions, such as intern or day mother. Others choose to be home with the children for one or more years of growing up. This is a decision taken by the individual parents themselves. It is, in order to take the interview in Dagbladet again, I believe that it is and should be parents who are to determine the stability of their children’s lives, not the supervisory solutions, the nature or type of solution they have – a position that does not prevent me from continuing to make the kindergartens as qualitative, good and stable as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e714	: Unfortunately, the ambiguity surrounding these issues continues as long as it is not such that, through its contributions to various child care systems, the State has quality requirements in relation to the provision of the children as a general objective. Kindergartens did not just happen because their parents would have a place to place their children while they were at work. They came because we thought they were an extra good, a quality that would make the growth richer and better. That perspective has been completely lost in the cash support reform. SV has been positive that this could give time to parents and children, but as long as it is not limited to that area, I have to repeat the question: is the freedom of choice that the Government now wants to introduce, more important than the quality?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e721	I sometimes wonder about the questions. When it comes to child care, the quality will always be at the height. But I don't want to stand here on Stortingen's pulpit and say that it's the kindergartens that provide the best quality, stability and safety for the children. It is the responsibility of parents, and of course, all parents who are able to take that responsibility must be allowed to do so. We know that there are some parents who need help, and they're going to get help. But now we're talking about the more average family of children, with parents taking their children's needs seriously. Optionally, you should be able to choose if you want a safe, good, and stable babysitting area. I've been busy with the contents of the nursery all along. But it's not safe for the representative to listen to it, because she'd rather fight down the idea of cash support, which creates greater freedom of choice. I am concerned that parents should be allowed to choose. And I actually think that most parents have the best children in mind even when they are well cared for. Then choose some of the nursery places, some well to be home with the children themselves, while others choose to have part-time jobs and perhaps combine with the intern or the day mother. Practical and day - mother can also be good, safe and stable forms of care. I have good experience with that myself. Of course, kindergarten should be. Saying that one is much more valuable than the other becomes a discussion that can actually be quite confusing.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e730	: I notice that the Council of State will not say that kindergartens are a better offer than other schemes when parents' seas do not have the opportunity to supervise their children all day. I guess that's what makes a part of us worried. I would then like to address a direct question to the Council of State regarding other child care systems, since they are not subject to any kind of law and control at all. There will be a relationship between the parents and the trainee, possibly the day mother. Is it possible for the Council of State to adopt arrangements to ensure the quality of childcare facilities not covered by the Children's Court Act? And does the Council of State consider that the Kindergarten Act and its quality requirements are not important, since, in her view, the Kindergarten Act does not guarantee a childcare system that is better than a traineeship?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e737	Kindergarten is a very good offer for children – at least good kindergartens. I've said a few times that we have good and bad kindergartens. We have good and bad interns and good and bad interns. Day - mother can be a very good supervision system for children, especially the youngest. Kindergarten is too. And these offers don't have to conflict with each other. Barnehagelova is important. And we're going to carefully evaluate the cash support reform. What has our main objective for me when it comes to the cash support reform is for children and parents to spend more time together. That's one of the things we want to follow very carefully. If it should happen that we do not achieve that goal, it is clear that I am willing to look at regulations and other changes in relation to the cash support model. In Finland, they have done so several times after implementing the laws, in the light of different things that have happened in society. This is not a law that must be like this in all stories. It's clear we can look at different lucky and unfortunate outcomes of this. I'm open to evaluating this when we get the evaluation of the reform in place.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e764	These questions are postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e770	This question, from the representative of Jan Johnsen to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e773	I have the following questions for the Minister: ‘Every serving site controller has to take an inaugural test soon. The aim is to ensure that key industry personnel have the necessary knowledge of the law on accounting and alcohol. Despite the fact that students with a degree from Norwegian University of Hotel School, former Norwegian School of Hotel Science, have undergone a comprehensive syllabus within the same areas, they also have to take a test. Will the Council of State, as part of his notified struggle against the form field, ensure that candidates from Norwegian high school hotels are exempted from the requirement for an inaugural test?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e780	The establishment test is one of the new requirements for service activities introduced by the law on serving last year. The aim is to ensure that key individuals have the necessary knowledge not only of the accounting law and the alcohol law, but also of the rules of the food law itself and beyond. in the fields of taxation, taxation, the working environment and internal control. In general, I want to adapt the implementation of the law in the most flexible way possible. In this context, the representative’s question as to whether the candidates from the Hotel Högskola should be exempted from the inaugural examination is highly relevant. We are currently preparing a regulation for the Food Law, and in this regulation it will include, among other things: be opened so that non-municipalities may be regarded as a testing body. The hotel high school naturally points out in such a context, and thus the test could be integrated into the school's fixed test set-up. In my opinion, it will provide a simple and convenient arrangement both for those who are going to take the test, for the school and for the municipality, which will ensure that the administrators of the catering facilities have completed the inaugural test.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e787	I thank you for your answer. Have I understood correctly when I perceived the minister so that now the actual exam from the Norwegian hotel high school would meet the requirement for the inaugural exam? In the Norwegian University of Hotel School syllabus there are all these things and even more, and it would be completely pointless if students were to go from two to up to six years at the Norwegian University of Hotel School and had to take an inaugural test to be allowed to run in the industry. But be aware that this is a key function in Norway – it is the only school we have. I think seriously that there must be a clear no that these students do not have to take any inaugural exams.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e794	The representative wondered in his supplementary question to me if I had answered in a different way than I did. So I'm going to repeat what I said. Experience with the former hotel law suggests that we should be cautious about granting exemptions from general requirements. I think giving Norwegian high school access to the exam will give you a flexible and good order. However, if it turns out that this does not work in practice, we will review the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e801	Until the early 1980s, the only opportunity to obtain a restaurant or hotel letter here in the country was to graduate from Norwegian hotel high school, or former Norwegian hotel vocational school. I was one of those who stood on the barricades when this fell away. I didn't think it should go away, because we'd get unprofessional people into the business. It's happened. I have also participated in the fight that it should be an inaugural test for all those who have never been out of the law, or so far have been in the industry. And then I realize that when we get to the end, the whole crowd, even those who are students from this school, will have to go up to such a test when this is already in the curriculum. I think the minister should be able to answer clearly that it should not be necessary for these to go up to a special inaugural exam when they have a degree from school.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e806	Since the representative repeats the question for the second time, I will repeat the answer for the second time. The answer is that I think it would be a useful simplification to add the test to the Hotel University School, and I will also reply – in consultation with my colleague, the Minister of Industry – that if this does not work in practice, the scheme will be reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e814	This question is answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e817	I have asked this question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘The economic crisis in Russia has resulted in the end of all credit guarantees on this market by the Guarantee Institute for Export Credit, GIEK. The Norwegian and, in particular, the Norwegian fishing industry is at high risk of losing significant amounts. The production of herring and other fish products may stop. What measures does the Council of State intend to take to ensure exports, and can the Council of State envisage going in to establish its own credit lines between Norway and Russia?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e826	The Guarantee Institute for Export Credit, GIEK, shall contribute to the promotion of Norwegian exports of goods, services and investments abroad by reducing political and commercial risks. As a result of the economic crisis in Russia, the risk associated with credit and credit lines to the country is now considered to be very high, and GIEK has seen to have to suspend the commitments given and suspend the reguarantee until 1 December of this year. The likelihood of loss is currently so high that any maintenance of GIEK’s offer would require very high premium rates in order to cover large, expected claims payments. However, GIEK is following developments in Russia closely and will be able to open rapidly the supply of Russia if the assumptions so require. Export credit institutions of other countries have also ceased their guarantee activities towards Russia. The crisis in Russia poses problems for parts of the Norwegian fishing industry. In order to discuss the situation, a meeting will be held tomorrow between the Ministry of Fisheries, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the National Association of Fisheries and the Norwegian Silver Selling Team. WEEKS will not be participating in the meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e833	I thank the Council of State for a positive response. It is good to hear that the government is busy with the question, and I hope the meeting tomorrow will be fruitful. My second part of the question was whether the Council of State would like to establish its own credit lines between Russia and Norway. I ask the government to take it into consideration, because the trade in goods was in ancient times a form of trade. I imagine that a solution to the problem can be trade based on the exchange of goods between the authorities, and that the actors in the industry can act against those credit lines and, if necessary, obtain settlement from the state. There is a way to maintain both business and trade between the two countries.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e840	The responsibility for financial risk relief for exports to or investments abroad has been delegated to the Governing Board of the GIEK. This implies that the Board of Directors of GIEK is responsible, inter alia, for: to adjust the premiums or close the business to certain countries when the risk profile so warrants. As a result of the risky situation in Russia, the Governing Board has chosen to suspend commitments and suspend new guarantees until 1 December of this year. However, I heard the representative Bastesen's view on the exchange of goods, and I will ensure that these views are passed on to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e857	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e864	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘There have been relatively many fires recently in operational buildings in which animals have died. What can the Council of State do to reduce this number?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e873	Unfortunately, a large number of animals die from fires in operational buildings here in the country every year. We have recently been reminded of this by the great fire on a farm at Gjøvik last weekend. The number of animals killed annually in the event of a fire represents about one per cent of the total loss of domestic animals. At the initiative of the Ministry of Agriculture, a group was set up in the spring of 1997 to review available data on the extent of fires in livestock-lost buildings and to look at the laws and regulations applicable to the protection of animal spaces against fire. The aim was to identify better fire prevention measures. The group, which issued its report in May 1998, has had representatives of the State Animal Health Authority, the State Building Technical Office, the Directorate of Fire and Explosion Protection, the Norwegian Bondelag and the State Agricultural Inspectorate. On the basis of the assessments contained in the report, the group is now working further to identify concrete fire prevention measures. In addition, another group has been tasked with identifying all fires in operational buildings where animals perish during 1998. Here, work is done more specifically on each individual fire case to find the cause and the course. The installation of fire alarm equipment will provide early warning of fire. A prerequisite for this to be helpful is the availability of appropriate extinguishing equipment and the presence of persons able to use the equipment. Evacuation of animals during fire is a very demanding operation and can be extremely difficult without endangering human life. Agricultural operational building requirements are generally regulated by the Law on Planning and Building. There are a number of provisions of the law in the case of fire-technical conditions, which also apply to operational buildings. Fire in animal rooms where animal life is lost is a disaster. For those directly affected, such fires are also a very large psychological impact. The results of the work of the above-mentioned groups will form the basis for an overall and up-to-date assessment of possible fire prevention measures in agricultural buildings, including an assessment of whether requirements should be introduced for fire alarm systems. Complete sprinkling plants have been assessed as inappropriate in animal rooms as far as possible. The Ministry, together with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, which has overall responsibility for fire prevention measures and for the Law on Planning and Building, will also assess whether the existing legislation is an appropriate tool in preventing fires in which domestic animals are lost. Administrative and financial implications of any legislative changes will be carefully assessed and current amendments sent at regular consultation. Finally, as Minister of Agriculture, I would like to stress the importance of finding good fire prevention measures to reduce both the economic loss and the suffering actually caused to the people and the fae in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e899	I thank the Minister for the answer and for the data and thoughts he provided. I also thank him for understanding the importance of this question. In 1990 there were 413 fires. In 1996, it had increased by approx. 100, then it was 514. On average, 20 domestic animals are killed every day, and it shows how important this issue is. I really hope that the group that is disabled will come up with something. I can agree that there should be certain conditions for the individual farmer who has a minimum number of animals. A central fire alarm system may be considered. I thank you, as I said, for the answer, and hope that this will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e910	I guess that wasn't really an extra question. It's just to be added from the Council of State that it's actually approx. 50000 farms with domestic animals in our country, and in a way also describes the exposure of livestock producers to the possibility of a fire. It is, of course, a challenge for public authorities to contribute to and reduce this through both the regulatory framework and the regulatory framework to which it is addressed. At the same time, of course, it is also a cost. In the case of adjustments to the fire alarm systems we have today, it may on average be up to NOK 30000 – 40000 for each farmer. Now, of course, one must also look up to the great suffering of domestic animals in this context. I want to assure the representative that we are taking this seriously from the department and are trying to find appropriate solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e919	Question 10 will be answered in front of question 16.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e925	I have a question for our Honourable Minister of Justice: ‘Our neighbouring countries have implemented respiratory detectors in the fight against illegal immigration. The apparatus measures the carbon dioxide content in breath and can thus detect hidden people. Foreign controls at border crossings in Eastfold have revealed many attempts at illegal immigration. Will the Council of State take an initiative to enable the instrument to be used at Norwegian border stations?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e934	The question of the use of respiratory detector was raised by the police officer in Oslo by letter to the Ministry of Justice of 30 September this year. The use of such an instrument requires clarification of the basis of origin and this work is already under way in the Ministry. The lawyer is informed of the enquiry by the police officer in Oslo and is asked to give his opinion on the matter. Therefore, my starting point is that the question of the use of breath detectors in the context of border control can be resolved within a relatively short period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e941	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is gratifying that the decision can also be taken in Norway in a relatively short time. We know that such a detector is now used in a number of countries, and as far as I know, with very good results, among other things. in Denmark and Sweden. We know that there is increasing pressure on Norwegian and European borders and increased illegal immigration. We have very limited resources to meet this illegal immigration, so the use of respiratory detectors is positive. For example, a trailer can be used. examine in four minutes, instead of 40 minutes today. There are also problems with the sealing of these cars. It will also have a very good deterrent effect, I believe. My first supplementary question to the Council of State will be: Does she see that there may be some obstacle to allowing the use of respiratory detectors in Norway, when used in Denmark and Sweden and benefit from it?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e950	I don't immediately see that this needs to be a problem in Norway, and that's the starting point. But when I informed in my first answer that we still want to take a thorough review of the basis of the law, it is because we want to be sure that the use of this device does not conflict with the law in force in Norway, and that it will not require any specific legal support. I assume that we will get an answer to this fairly quickly. I fully agree with the questioner that getting effective border control is important, and I will assess this in the manner that is appropriate for the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e957	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In Halden, the rest of the world has stopped approximately in a few samples over a year. 500 people who illegally tried to get into Norway, and some of them we know would try to support themselves in this country by means of illegal activity and crime, so there is an important question to address. I also know that there are funds set aside for exceptional border controls. As far as I know, it's three million. kr. Would this be the means by which it may be appropriate to acquire breath detectors, if we now find that there is a basis for doing so?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e962	In connection with the question from the representative Hedstrøm, I would like to be brief enough to know that both regular checks and random checks have a great place in the work being done in relation to control. During a three-day period from Thursday 15 October to Saturday 17 October, the police carried out intensified checks on selected border crossings, both air, water and sea borders. This was part of a comprehensive operation in which all Schengen Member States participated. Here we're going to map. And we have. How we can finance the further use of this device when the necessary clarifications have been made, of course, I cannot say anything concrete about today, but I want to express to the questioner that we are quite clear here: we are looking at the need, and want to use modern tools.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e972	I would like to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In a letter dated 9 July 1998, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health confirms that the Secretariat of the Social Security Society should be moved from Harstad and centralised by adding it to the State Institute of Public Health. Thus, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has centralised a state area of intervention at a time when Oslo has pressure problems, while North Norway is affected by relocation. Why can't this Secretariat still be in Harstad?'
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e981	The cross-ministerial action plan Prevention of accidents at home, school and leisure was presented in January 1997. Local development work has been concentrated and followed up through, for example: performance targets and actions relating to the safe community. This is a concept for accident prevention work at the local level under the auspices of the World Health Organisation. For a three-year period from 1995 to 1998, this work has been organised as a project with the secretariat function anchored by the county doctor in Troms, located partly in Harstad and partly in Tromsø. As part of the follow-up to the Action Plan, during the autumn of 1997 and the first half of 1998, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has had a thorough review and assessment of the division of responsibilities and tasks for work, including the further anchoring and placement of the Secretariat of the Security Communities. The departments concerned have contributed through the cross-ministerial coordination group for the follow-up of the action plan. In the view of the Ministry, a good basis has been laid for further work and for strengthened cross-sectoral efforts. The further organisation implies that tasks in the Secretariat for the Security of Local Communities have been added to the professional environment of the State Institute for Public Health as an integral part of a strengthened advisory function towards the local government sector and as part of a comprehensive follow-up to the Action Plan. Such a professional environment shall help municipalities to benefit from the knowledge of practical work and to be responsible for the professional content of the advice, including contributing to injury statistics and supporting tools to provide local injury rates, knowledge-based recommendations on targeted prevention, follow-up and evaluation. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health believes it is important to make the best use of resources in order to increase the competence of accident prevention. And a crucial point in the assessment of the further organisation has been to concentrate and develop competences around one professional environment. It is a reality that such a professional environment must be above a certain critical size, i.e. have a minimum base of breadth, knowledge and competence. The State Institute for Public Health is the department's body of expertise in accident prevention and it has been building competence in damage research and accident and damage prevention with the support of the Ministry for several years. Public health is responsible for the development and operation of the national personal injury register and pays employees of the four hospitals included in the sample register, including a position at Harstad Hospital. Harstad municipality is an important co-player in the further work, among others. with dissemination and transfer of experience to other municipalities. As the only municipality in Norway with the WHO approval mark as a safe community, and with long and good experience from accident prevention efforts, Harstad has much to offer. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will take the initiative of a meeting in Harstad with the relevant bodies to clarify the scope, content, resources and conditions of such cooperation. I am committed to facilitating the role of the municipality of Harstad in the networking of municipalities that are committed to accident prevention work within the framework of the Safe Local Communities, and will work towards it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1000	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It is positive that one is in dialogue with the municipality of Harstad and the county board in Troms, but at the same time the reality is that one here moves a state area and centralizes it. Governments argued that a professional environment is needed over a certain critical size to have a width. But it's a kind of argument that any small center of expertise encounters, because of course, the width of almost every professional environment we have in this country is larger in the central areas than it will be in smaller cities. Such an argument will automatically lead to the transfer of most of the professional environments to Oslo. It may not be sufficient for a government to give priority to districts. As regards this case, Harstad remains the only community in Norway that meets the WHO criteria for the so-called Safe Communities. In a small city, this secretariat represents important jobs and is much more important than it has in Oslo. In this case, the whole area around has engaged itself. Do the Council of State agree that the move of Safe Local Communities contributes to centralisation?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1011	It is my clear opinion that in order to have a good effect of accident prevention work aimed at the municipal sector, several forces must play together. We must have a good anchoring in a broad and solid professional environment, but we must also have a good anchoring in the practical everyday life. I think that the State Institute of Public Health is best able to give the first, but I think that Harstad's experience and almost a lighthouse in this work on a national basis can have an important role to play in the second element I mentioned, namely anchoring and spreading experience towards the municipal sector. Just this role for the municipality of Harstad we will discuss at the meeting that I have now announced. We also want to see if it is possible to allocate a job resource in connection with this work related to Harstad, and therefore I believe that the criticism of centralisation should fall.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1021	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is positive to consider entering with a job resource. I would ask that in this context, a more thorough evaluation of the results achieved in Harstad should also be carried out, and that evaluation should also be reviewed. In order to maintain the settlement, there is a need to implement and further develop the environment of competence in the regions of Norway. The work on Safe Local Communities can be developed in cooperation with the County Doctorates in all the Nordic counties and in connection with the Institute of Social Medicine at the University of Tromsø. Many suggest that there is a need for a new evaluation, and I would like to ask if the Council of State will take the initiative to evaluate the scheme on a broader basis and, if necessary, re-assess whether it is right to do what has now been set up, namely to move the facility, but to add a resource to Harstad.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1030	I believe that the ministry has carried out a thorough review and assessment and, on that basis, reached such a conclusion. But I am open in the dialogue that is now taking place with those involved in Troms and in Harstad in particular, to look at how one can achieve a role-sharing in the further work that takes care of the concerns of the Konglevoll representative, and I think that we should.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1035	Question 13 is answered for question 16.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1041	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘Ca. 38 000 Northmen suffer from the incurable disease Alzheimer's dementia. According to experts, the drug Aricept will be able to increase the quality of life and function of large parts of this patient group. The cost of medicine is between 900 and 1100 kroner per day. months. The Rikstrøgdeverket has decided that the medicine should not be obtained on a blue prescription. Can the Council of State look at the possibility of obtaining Aricept on a blue prescription, so that minimum pensioners can also afford to use this medicine?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1050	The professional establishments, the National Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products and the State Department of Medicine have assessed the new medicinal product Aricept for Alzheimer’s dementia in accordance with the prescribed procedures and rules. The Rikstrøgdeverket has received and evaluated the application for the compulsory reimbursement of Aricept, i.e. Recording on blue prescription. On 11 September 1998 the Ministry of the Interior received the recommendation of the Rikstrygdeverket. The Rikstrøgdeverket based its recommendations on available evidence. At the disposal of the Rikstrøgdeverket, among others: three short-term studies of a duration of between 12 and 24 weeks and a two-year non-control study to demonstrate long-term efficacy. The results of these studies do not provide a reliable basis for drawing any clear conclusions based on the requirements for medical documentation. The Swedish Social Security Agency further points out that Aricept could significantly increase the cost of social security. The Rikstrøgdeverket recommended the department to await the uptake of Aricept on a blue prescription until more evidence is available on the efficacy of the product. The State Pharmacovigilance Authority has concluded in a similar way. In a health economic assessment dated 11 May 1998, Statens Pharmacovigilance concluded that, based on current knowledge, Aricept should not be taken up on a blue prescription. The state medical examination also indicates that it was in the Speciality Study when the question of whether the product should be granted a marketing authorisation was addressed. Speciality students advised to approve the medicinal product for sale in Norway by four votes to three. The minority advised to reject the marketing authorisation application based on insufficient evidence of clinical safety. High price and lack of evidence of efficacy are the other reasons given for not granting Aricept reimbursement in Denmark and Finland. On this basis, the manufacturer of Aricept was refused an application for the compulsory reimbursement of this medicinal product. I am open to re-evaluation questions if the manufacturer is able to provide more and better evidence of the efficacy of the product, or if the price is reduced to a level that is better in line with the efficacy currently demonstrated.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1067	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. In fact, I allow myself to interpret it so positively that the Minister of Health is ready to look at this again. In Sweden, this means that it has been used and has been refunded. There was talk of substantial expenses for social security. We need to be aware that we have expenses at both ends, i.e. people who come to the institution cost money, and if we can prevent people from coming in earlier, it will also mean that we save money. So the documentation so far shows that there are opportunities to save money. Is it true when I understand that the Minister of Health is ready to review this medicine?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1076	It is true, as the representative Johnsen says, that when assessing the economy by reimbursing a medicinal product, one has to look at the whole picture and make a health economic assessment, and so far is the Ministry's view that the reimbursement costs of compulsory reimbursement of Aricept substantially exceed any savings that the product might provide. However, I have said – and repeat – that I am open to reconsider the question of reimbursement if the manufacturer can provide more and better evidence of the efficacy of the product, or if the price is set at a level that is better in line with the effect currently demonstrated.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1081	In the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, a study has apparently been carried out to show that this would cost 50 million. kr per year. According to the studies that have now been carried out in Sweden after they have used this product and allowed it to be refunded, the actual cost in a year will be approximately NOK 20 million, and only it would be good enough to take this up again. In addition, a study has shown that Norway will save 350 million. kr at the other end, as we said, i.e. on the institution side. And then I hope that the Minister of Health can confirm that there are such good numbers I am presenting here, that it should be good enough to start and review this again.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1086	The Ministry will, of course, refer to new documentation which the manufacturer can provide and make such assessments as such.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1094	This question, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1097	I have asked this question to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘In connection with power transmission cables between Norway and the continent, an electrode system is planned in Breivika, Flekkefjord Municipality. This installation will, when in operation, release chlorine which is very toxic to the environment. Will the Council of State provide a proper impact assessment and consider alternative solutions before granting final concession to Statnett SF?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1106	The case of direct current connections from Feda and Tonstad to the baseline is now under review in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. I ask the representative Bastesen to understand that I cannot therefore address further assessments and discussions of the facts of the matter here. However, I can assure the representative that the Ministry of Oil and Energy in its handling of the complaint has close cooperation with the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Environmental Protection. I can also confirm that the Ministry of Oil and Energy, on the basis of meetings and inspections in which representatives of the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Environment also participated, have already commissioned the concessionaire to carry out investigations on, among other things, eggs. alternative landing solutions. The need for an additional investigation of the impact of the electrode system on the fishing industry is now under assessment in the Ministry of Fisheries. In examining the long-term power-exchange agreements, Stortinget provided that the environmental aspects of any reinforcements of the mains were carefully assessed in relation to each concession application. In line with this assumption, this case of direct current connections will be subject to a thorough and sound treatment under which alternative solutions will be considered before a final concession is granted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1115	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and for once it seems that I and the Minister of Environment are agreeing. The plant referred to will release 18 kilos of chlorine, which is equivalent to 600 liters of pure Chlorine, which is the same as 800 bottles of Chlorine, in the daytime, and it is a not insignificant source of contamination in the event of an interruption. A fault situation needs to be repaired, and it is not always that easy to get it repaired. I therefore hope that the matter will be properly dealt with, and that the consequences for the fishing industry and the salmon farming industry in particular will be carefully assessed. They exported from the 120 million area. 1996 and, of course, more similar in 1998, so I look forward to proper treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1122	I'm not going to go into a long exchange of words with the Bastesen representative about whether this is actually the first time we've agreed, but I think fortunately it's not like that. We attach great importance on the part of the Government to following up the Storting's assumption that the environmental impact should be properly investigated. We are also aware of the importance of the fishing industry, and that is precisely why the Ministry of Fisheries has been so closely involved in this matter as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1129	Then we go back to question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1135	This question, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1138	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture, which I understand will be answered by our honourable Minister for the Environment. ‘Presumed mixed wolf and dog animals have been observed several times in the inner east fold in recent months. Many are anxious that the animals may be dangerous to children because they lack the natural cloudiness of wolves. Animals may have negative effects on open air life, domestication and wild animals in the county. What can the Council of State contribute to the elimination of wolf hybrids?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1147	It has been documented in the last few years by the wolf in Eastfold, especially in the border regions towards Sweden. In some cases, wolf individuals have been observed near settlement and cultural landscapes. Some have interpreted this as abnormal behaviour in wolves, and have considered that such behaviour is due to the fact that the animals are hybrids of wolves and dogs. It is not uncommon for young, inexperienced individuals of both wolves and other animals to show up in the vicinity of humans. Therefore, such behaviour is not in itself a sign that it concerns animals that are a mixture of wolf and dog. In the case of nearby wolves in Eastfold, I do not have information to suggest that there are hybrids. However, I will consider alternative forms of genetic testing to determine, if possible, whether individual individuals may be mixed animals. I don't see it as desirable to have mixtures of wolves and dogs in Norwegian fauna. If we can certainly say that there are such hybrids in Norway, I will put in place the necessary measures to remove them. I also place great emphasis on getting better knowledge of the wolf in Norway as a basis for precise management in the years to come. In this respect, I would like to point out that in the 1999 draft budget, the Government has proposed significant funds for the stocktaking of wild game.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1160	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was very concrete and with which I am very pleased. Because it's clear that step one is going to consider having these suspected wolf hybrids genetically tested to see what it is. And if it turns out to be wolf hybrids -- something I'm not in doubt about because there are so many people and professionals in the case of wolves, who independently of each other have observed the animals -- next time it's going to be killing. I am very pleased with the answer, for this will reassure many people, especially in the inner East fold, who are worried about their children. It is true that even kindergartens have now been kept closed, for example. in the municipality of Våler, because many independent people have seen wolf-like animals in the vicinity of kindergartens. That hybrids are negative, you have experience for example. in Italy and Spain, and I expect that the conclusion of the Ministry of the Environment will be, if it turns out to be wolf hybrids, that a killing is then carried out after that finding.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1169	Let me first underline that you do not have to pre-conclusion about this. The professional agreement that these are hybrids has not yet been reached. But what I and the representative agree on is that it is important to clarify this issue, and that is why the Ministry of the Environment also thinks that there is reason to allow genetic testing of suspected non-hybrids. Through that we will be able to get precise answers, and if it turns out that these are hybrids, we are set to put in place the necessary measures to get rid of these.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1177	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘During the big debate on the local democracy presentation by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs in March, the Minister of Local Affairs informed that the Ministry of the Environment was about to set up a selection to review the plan part of the Planning and Building Act. This was repeated in the Community economicproposition in May. Following the information provided to the undersigned, this sample has not yet been appointed. When will it be appointed, and what time frame will it have for work?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1186	The work on clarifying the mandate and composition of the new Plan Law Committee has taken a little longer than initially assumed. However, the pieces have now fallen into place, and I aim to promote a case for the King of State Council to appoint the sample within 14 days. The committee will have a term of office of up to four years, but it is assumed to present its first partial position within two years of appointment.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1191	The background to the interest of this sample is that the argument that the sample should be set up was a defence that the Storting should not adopt a requirement to have a case on exactly the same topic, namely coordination of the State's opposition authority and the definition of national interests in relation to the plan section. However, the majority of the population decided this, and the municipal minister returned to the municipal economic proposition, still referring to this Plan Law Committee to be set up, and saying that it would address the most important of these issues. When it takes so long to reduce a plan selection, and the decision to collapse is in fact still valid, namely that there is a matter to be brought before the Stortinge ‘in the course of the 98/99 session’ on precisely these questions, then I have to say that it is essential for us to be able to obtain some of this material early, that it does not take four years for us to get answers to the most important questions. It is important for the development of local democracy that the state does not have greater problems than is necessary in the planning process.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1196	I fully agree with the representative of Solberg that it is important to have coordination and clarification of the interests of the state – and get it early in the process. This is also the reason why the Ministry of the Environment has now compiled all the guidelines of the departments in one circular to municipalities and counties – just to give them a comprehensive overview of the state’s interests. In parallel with doing this, I have also said very clearly that this is very extensive – and probably too extensive. We have therefore started a work in the ministry to review this to see if it can be simplified somewhat.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1204	So let's go up to question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1210	This question, from the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1213	I have the following questions for the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘The Working Market Act has implemented a project for the recruitment of foreign doctors, the aim of which has been to improve medical coverage in Norwegian district municipalities. What are the costs associated with the project, how many doctors have been recruited, and how is the geographical distribution of the doctors that have been able to recruit?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1222	The general lack of doctors in Norway in recent years, and in particular the lack of specialists, has led authorities to work in a broad field to increase the supply of these types of health professionals. The medical recruitment project of the State of Labour has been established in order to obtain doctors from abroad. The aim is not specifically to improve medical coverage in Norwegian districts, as the representative Ballo refers to in his question, but in general to remedy a shortage of both hospitals and districts. Mutual agreements are signed with the labour market authorities of Germany, France and Austria in 1997. The doctors in question are undergoing a three-month free language course with a final examination in the respective countries. Ten language courses have been held with an average price of 450 000 kroner per year. Course. Two further courses will be completed in 1998. It's set aside up to 10 million. DKK for language training of foreign health professionals in 1998. Per. On 16 October 1998, the project recruited 88 foreign doctors to Norway, 53 of them to the municipal health service and 35 to the hospital. There is a great deal of interest in coming to Norway, especially from German doctors. The geographical spread is great, but the counties of the North Tributes, Hordaland, Troms, Nordland, More and Romesdal and South Tributes have most added relatively, with 8-11 in each state.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1231	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I believe that it is alarming that the objective should not be to improve the regional distribution. It turns out that from 1995 in Norway, we had an increase of about a quarter. 1 200 years of play. Looking at the three Norse municipalities, it has been shown from available statistics that there has been a decrease in the number of medical works carried out. There is also a decrease in the number of medical work carried out in district municipalities in Norway with less than 4000 inhabitants. That means that there's only one way to do something about that situation: to be extremely focused when recruiting new doctors, otherwise you're only at risk of getting an over-consumption where it's already the highest medical density. The Council of State has views on how to achieve a better medical distribution by very targetedly linking new medical positions and the recruitment of new doctors to the districts and municipalities as per. date does not have the most occupied medical positions?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1238	The question from Ballo presents both health policy issues related to medical coverage in Norway and labour market policy issues. These are the latest issues that this project, which have not been implemented but will also be carried on in 1999, aims to solve. It is therefore aimed at solving the problem for employers who report their medical needs. My answers are given in relation to information on district and hospital versus district health services.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1243	You would like to thank me for the answer, but I am not satisfied with this answer. It is quite clear that if you are going to link recruiting doctors to the needs of each employer, you will constantly need to do so. You can see that only in the grey jobs you have today in a number of hospitals that already have the best coverage. Once again, I would like to ask the Council of State: should it not be a general social objective to coordinate the recruitment of doctors in relation to those where the need is greater, rather than simply seeking to meet the needs of the employer? Is there not at all a need here for coordination with the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs in a much more active way?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1248	The Minister of Health has presented matters, which I believe are being dealt with in the Storting right now, just to address the problem of medical coverage, which Ballo asks questions about. So the Social Charter has a different role in society, and whether there is a need for coordination here, or whether coordination is at all possible, I am somewhat uncertain about. The task of the Employment Act is to provide unemployed workers and to provide employers with the necessary labour.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1255	There was the last question in today's Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-21.ana.ud1578e1264	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed.
