ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e42	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and will consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e47	I suggest Aud Blattmann.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e52	Aud Blattmann is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Aud Blattmann is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e66	In thickest Oslo is Norway's densest populated valley. The Groruddalen stretches from the Old Oslo and Middle Ages to the Furuset and the city border at the Gülleråsen. Through large sections of the valley, Alnaelva flows – one of the longest and most affected rivers in the capital area. Alna has its sources in Marka, runs through the Grorud Valley, past Bryn and down to the sea. Several kilometres of the river is closed – by traffic, industrial activities and residential areas. But where Alna is not closed, it runs through uninhabited areas. Many of these are secured as open air areas. By means of a few urban planning measures, these could be made up of a large coherent green structure, consisting of natural elements, antique values, dwellings and industrial activities. The multi-use plan Alna Umweltpark is therefore established on the basis of an initiative from the urban districts along Alna, from Old Oslo to Hellerud. So many people are behind this initiative. In order to achieve such an environmental park, cooperation is needed with several state agencies and overall state coordination, of course in interaction with the Municipality of Oslo and the urban areas. The most complex Gothic knots in this area belong to state authorities. And several state infrastructure projects are being planned or even under construction. Today, when I ask Minister of Environment Guro Fjellang to contribute to the coordination of the plans of various states for the region and to ensure active cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo in order to develop the Alna Environmental Park, it is precisely to ensure an overall environmental perspective for the development of the area. The initiative of Alna Umweltpark comes out of a dream of sustainable urban development, including: with reference to ‘sustainable development charter in European cities and agglomerations’ to which Oslo Municipality and more than 80 others have joined. The Ministry of the Environment has repeatedly stated in target formulations on environmentally friendly urban development that urban development should take place in accordance with the principle of sustainable development. Everyone should be able to live in a health-promoting and safe environment by the year 2000. Important coherent green areas, cultural landscapes and close open air areas should be ensured as a basis for recreation, play, outdoor life and the protection of biodiversity. Cultural historical identity and locality shall also be taken into account. Ecological modes of transport shall have a central place in the planning of the urban community. I think of this as important target formulations. Historically, Alna was an important traffic year, and if we go quite far back, when Oslo was built at the mouth of Alna, which is probably about. 1000 years ago, the Viking ships were pulled up on the sandbanks here. We remember from the history books that Håkon Håkonsson pulled his ships up through Alna from Oslofjord and on to Øyeren. In the medieval ruins of Bjørvika and in the areas along Alna lies much of Oslo's identity and Oslo's history. Yes, I would venture the claim that this is also about Norwegian identity and Norwegian history. Upgrading the Alna area is therefore also an important cultural memory measure – a national cultural memory measure – together with the construction of the Medieval Museum and the development of Bjørvika as a new urban area towards the fjord. According to Groruddalen Historischeslag, Alna got his name in the 15th century. 200 years later, the river was renamed Loelven, which was then called Loelven. In recent times, Alna, we know, has regained its original name. The idea of Alna Umweltpark is actually 50 years old. One of the perpetrators was the country's first rickshaws, Harry Fett. One of his main points was that cultural history gives the cultural landscape historical anchoring. Cultural history and nature belong closely together, he thought. I also want to show that in 1986 the Oslo Workers' Party came up with an idea sketch for an Alna plan. On the basis of a political will to bet on the renewal of the Groruddalen, the party went among other things. for a protection zone of at least 20 m on each side of the river, a continuous tour along this riverbed, the registration of ancient monuments, the preservation of the old industrial and commercial environments, the development of housing and the establishment of social and cultural sites. In 1989 the Park and Sports Service also completed the Oslo disposition plan for Alna and Tokerudbeck. A steering group based on the relevant urban areas is currently established. Oslo City Council has granted 2 million. kr for the current year for this purpose. However, the assumption of a multi-use plan for Alna Umweltpark – with housing, roads, cafes and food establishments based on the principle of sustainable urban development – is that the state development plans for the area adapt to the concept of an environmental park and that some transportation projects in Groruddalen are being carried out. This requires political coordination from one state political body. I would like to give some examples of development plans, and I would like to stress that the examples I mention show that there is now an urgent need for overall environmental policy coordination from the government. State buildings are building a new head office for the State Road Service below Bryn. The plans for a new Bryn terminal and the development of Bryn station as a hub and terminal have come very far. We need here a solution that ensures the protective buildings in the area. Here is the Railway Agency/NSB involved. A six-field motorway to the Rye Cross is planned for this area. We now know that the plans for the Old Town Tunnel are out for consultation. The Rome and the Gardermoban are strongly involved in the development of the area, and I do not need to repeat what has been said from the interlocutory here earlier by several Oslo representatives, that there is concern about the environmental consequences of the precisely Roman sport. In the case of the Middle Ages, it shall be upgraded and the Middle Ages Museum completed. Here there is a cooperation, or at least there should be a cooperation, between the State cultural authorities and the Municipality of Oslo. The State authorities should be both the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Environmental Protection. In addition, of course, the development of Bjørvika and the further development of the Environment City of Old Oslo. These are measures in which the state has a strong influence on the development of projects. Then it should be added that because these are attractive areas, residential construction activities are now ongoing in Suburb in addition to the fact that a number of private, commercial groups are now showing an interest in precisely this part of Oslo in the wake of the relocation of the main airport of the East to Gardermoen. And it's important, I think, that this isn't going to be an uncontrolled development, but it's also looking at the environmental impact and trying to achieve sustainable urban development, which was also the main form of construction in the area. Finally, for years old Oslo and Groruddalen have taken up the burden of state infrastructure development, now at the latest in the construction and opening of the Gardermoen. We now need the environmental policy coordination of the plans of the various state agencies for the area – in order to ensure Alna Umweltpark – and sustainable urban development that ensures that housing policies, industrial policies and transport policies are integrated into the development of Alna Umweltpark. It's my challenge today to Guro Mountain Council.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e113	First of all, I want to pay tribute to the six districts of Oslo that have taken an important initiative to equip Alna and the surrounding area. This is a good opportunity for the Municipality of Oslo to cooperate constructively with several interests in the Groruddalen in order to maintain and develop the values found in the area. The local action group of Alna Umweltpark and the Municipality of Oslo at the Urban Council for Environment and Transport has individually contacted the Ministry of the Environment. The Action Group has briefed political leadership on the plans for the Alna Environmental Park. The Urban Councils for Environment and Transport wanted to discuss the environmental action plan for Oslo, where Groruddalen and Alna Umweltpark were among the themes affected. The objectives of the multi-use plan Alna Umweltpark include: «to reopen the closed river sections and create a coherent green structure consisting of natural elements, antique values and organised activities». This objective is well in line with St. ermeld. No 29 for 1996-97 Regional planning and land policy and S. reporting. No 58 for 1996-97 Environmental protection policies for sustainable development. These communications aim to ensure coherence in the green structure of cities and agglomerations, such as coastal and terrestrial green corridors and areas along central watercourses. This means that an attempt should be made to maintain links where they exist and to ensure re-establishment where necessary in order to have a coherent green structure. The green structure of cities and agglomerations should primarily be ensured through the planning and management of natural values by municipalities themselves. The consideration of cultural memories and environments shall be included in this work. I would also like to point out that the organisation of good green lungs through cities can contribute to the creation of new attractive residential areas. The representative of Nybakk, in his interview, shows that there are today plans for development from several state budgets for the area. For this reason, I have asked the departments concerned about current state development plans. As far as we are concerned, the following transport projects are in progress: the Svartdal tunnel and the Galloweberg link, which are foreseen for traffic during 2000. Furthermore, at the end of 1998 public reviews are planned for the impact assessment for the Rv 4 Northeast Corridor. Other ongoing planning and investigation tasks are traffic solutions in the Alnabru area. Reference is made to the mention of environmental measures in the Groruddalen in St. pp. No 1 for 1998-99, Draft budget of the Ministry of Transport. In addition, the Ministry of Labour and Administration has reported that the Directorate of Roads needs to co-locate its activities, which are currently scattered in different locations in Oslo. The project is currently in an early stage and no formal decision on implementation has been taken. With regard to the desire for the Ministry of the Environment to contribute to the coordination of state development plans in the area, I recall that the Municipality of Oslo is responsible for spatial planning in the municipality. This also applies in relation to State measures in the municipalities which require spatial clearance under the Planning and Building Act. If the Municipality of Oslo wants the Ministry to engage in this way, we are open to evaluating this, but we see it as most appropriate that any cooperation should be based on larger parts of the Groruddalen. I am pleased to see that the residents themselves take the initiative to adjust the areas, add qualities and preserve urban historical values. The Ministry of the Environment will initiate cooperation between the Municipal Councils and the Municipality of Oslo with a view to establishing a regional focal point for local Agenda 21 in Oslo, as we add to all counties. The aim of such a hub is precisely to contribute to the best possible coordination of local Agenda 21 activities in urban areas. I would like to take this opportunity to inform you about some of the projects in Oslo where the Ministry of the Environment has, on the one hand, been and is still an important partner. From 1987 to 1990, the Municipality of Oslo received support from the Ministry of the Environment for the planning, upgrading and organisation of the areas associated with Akerselva. The Akerselva Umweltpark project highlighted how a problem area can be developed into an area where it is good for people to live, work and stay in leisure. Akerselva with its surrounding surroundings in the urban and urban image is a central capital that is important for the care of both the biological transport year, the recreational area and the identity-creating and aesthetic element of the city and the urban areas concerned. An important reason for the Ministry's participation in the Akerselva project was that the project should have transfer value both for the municipalities of Oslo and for other municipalities. Alna Umweltpark will, in my opinion, be able to draw useful experiences from this work. I would also like to refer to the environmental urbanisation of the Environment City of Old Oslo and the Oslo Action Plan for the Middle East, both based on cooperation between the Municipality of Oslo and several departments on environmental improvements in Oslo. The main challenge for the Environment City of Old Oslo is to improve living conditions. Work shall draw up visions and long-term objectives as input to the work of the institutions on infrastructure and as a driving force for the implementation of environmental improvements, cultural activities and social measures to improve the living conditions of the population. This has been done in cooperation with the agencies, the Urban Committee and the residents’ organisations. Some results are shown, among others: in the major conversion of the traffic system in Old Oslo, which relieves the urban area of the problems of transit traffic. The inhabitants notice this primarily in the case of less noise and pollution and in the case of several sites and several environmental holes. In the context of the further clarification of urban development opportunities in the Bjørvika and Bispevika areas, the Ministry of the Environment has undertaken to coordinate the state interests in the area, and in this context has a close dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo at the City Council. When Stortinget treated St. report. No 14 for 1994-95 On living conditions and living conditions in large cities, it was proposed to draw up a Communication on the Action Plan for Urban Development. This was followed up in St. gemeld. No 29 for 1996-97 Regional planning and land policy. The primary objective of this work is to establish a cooperation area between the major cities and the state to put sustainable urban development on the agenda and to provide objectives and content for the work. Work shall have a broad approach to spatial planning and development issues and will continue to experience from the Environment Urban Programme. Cooperation shall contribute to better and more systematic interaction between the parties. Work is expected to clarify the need for more coordinated use of instruments. The government has based on St. Announcement. No 29 for 1996-97 invited the four largest cities and Tromsø to the Cooperation Forum for Urban Development, where nine departments are involved. The Cooperation Forum started its work in the autumn. The cities here, through this cooperation, have the opportunity to present concrete themes that have a common interest in both the big cities and the state. The aim is to clarify and raise fundamental issues and issues of urban development for government and urban sprawl based on the city's own practical experience. The Groruddalen has been subject to significant environmental pressures, including: as a result of different State measures. Land has been partly fragmented and represents a significant potential for better use for different purposes. The initiative from the six urban districts is therefore a good starting point for seeing the development of the area as a whole. I think it will be possible to bring the issues that the development of the area from Bjørvika through Groruddalen to Gülleråsen into the work under the auspices of the Urban Development Cooperation Forum. It must be a clear premise that the initiative for this cooperation comes from the Municipality of Oslo itself. Finally, I would like to highlight the following: Alna Umweltpark is a concrete project that the Municipality of Oslo itself has to assess whether they want to prioritise within their own budget frameworks. The Ministry of the Environment has very limited means of experimentation, but the Municipality of Oslo will have the opportunity to apply for aid. The Ministry of the Environment sees to the greatest extent the possibility of assessing the issues represented by land development in the Groruddalen, bringing them into the work of the Urban Cooperation Forum, and discussing them more closely with the Municipality of Oslo. In this context, the Ministry of the Environment may contribute to the coordination of State interests.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e165	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, which I think is largely positive, and it also shows that there is quite broad support for the project Alna Umweltpark. The same is true in Oslo, where there is a solid majority in the City Council in favour of this project. Let me first comment on what was said about transfer value, because I think that's a very important keyword. I believe that this project, that is Alna Umweltpark, has quite a transfer value for other municipalities. Of course, this applies in particular to other Norwegian cities which could also imagine coherent green areas and multi-use plans where both housing projects, leisure and leisure activities and industrial areas were put in place, and the concept of sustainable urban development is taken as a starting point. I am also pleased that the Council of State so clearly stressed that what is particularly important about the environmental problems along the Alna River is that the obstacles that lie there today are largely due to state agencies which are either already there or are planning to expand in some way, and that this is what indicates the need for state coordination. I mentioned among several government projects Bryn station and the planned new Bryn terminal. I think I'm going to stress that Bryn Stationsby is the oldest and best-preserved station city from the last century at all, and that the area accounts for a total of 30 antique-variable buildings and is a central hub in the green structure. The design of the new Bryn terminal will be essential for the further work on Alna Umweltpark. I just mention this as an important example. Of course, there is no doubt that the Municipality of Oslo is responsible for spatial planning, but I think this is environmental policy so important, and the steering group says that we want the Ministry of the Environment to have a comprehensive overview of the state involvement in the area. I am otherwise pleased that the Ministry of the Environment will take the initiative of working together between KS and Oslo Municipality with a view to establishing a regional focal point for local Agenda 21. It allows proper coordination, but I would like to make it clear once again that for us, it is important that the Ministry of the Environment is willing to take the overall environmental responsibility for state development in the area, and that the Council of State would like to clarify it a little more strongly than she did in her statement.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e178	Like the representative Nybakk, I have also noticed that there is broad support for Alna Umweltpark, and that is precisely because I also believe that this can have great transfer value for other municipalities – mainly the green structure in large cities. I think it would be useful to bring this project into the cooperation forum we have for urban development. Once we have established this forum in the autumn, it is precisely because we see the need to ensure that all departments – including the state – take environmental into account, and we see that protecting green structures needs to be lifted. And we believe that such a cooperation forum, where the practical experience of the big cities is brought forward, will be an important tool for better governance and enlargement. I would also like to stress that there are several tools that can be used to ensure that government authorities take environmental considerations and are coordinated in relation to the activities they have, for example. in Oslo and Groruddalen. I think maybe some of the most important steps that have been taken are the environmental action plans that the government has started. The Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Defence presented their first-generation environmental action plans in connection with the draft budget this year. Some of the purposes of which are precisely that the various sectors should also identify their responsibilities to take into account both green structures, biodiversity, cultural historical values, etc. I would like to mention in concrete terms that, on the transport side, funds have been put into the year’s budget for remedial measures, among others. for Gardermo traffic, and the aim is to come back with more. It is also the case that the Ministry of Transport has taken an initiative towards its offices and companies and has instructed them to think environment when developing. And not least they have instructed their offices and companies to look at the possibilities of positive property development in places where the state is heavily infested. I want to clarify what I tried to say in my first post, that I think it is important and right that the Ministry of the Environment coordinate state activities. Among other things, we do. done in Bjørvika. And what I tried to say in my first post, and which I still think is an important principle, is that that coordination should come at the initiative of the municipality itself. If that initiative comes up, of course, we're willing to take on that task.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e191	As the previous speakers also pointed out, good interaction between the state and the municipalities is important and necessary to meet the environmental challenges. The multi-use plan for Alna Umweltpark is Agenda 21 in practice. It is also important for people's health for those who live and grow up in the affected neighbourhoods. The state has already engaged in this work, but we are calling for progress and action. If we are to achieve the objective of environmentally friendly urban development, including: all should be able to live in a health-promoting and safe environment by the year 2000, things must be done a little faster than they are today. Therefore, the Council of State should today promise us better coordination and active cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo, and also some financial support. The area currently on the agenda applies to parts of the country's capital, which are enclosed and divided by industrial areas, roads, railway tracks and power lines. The large expansion along Alna came in the middle of the war and brought with it extensive pollution. The sewer was discharged straight into the river, and there is still a lot to clean up in. The State has made its contribution to the pollution and should therefore take responsibility for dealing with it. The old Oslo and Groruddalen, as the representative Nybakk said in his speech, have for years taken up the burden of state infrastructure development. There are very little green areas along Alna. Alna is a green opportunity that can increase the quality of life for many. The area is currently too inaccessible, but some people have hatched a lot of good ideas about what can be done, and by realising Alna Umweltpark, we can get a long-awaited clearance area where people can fasten. The plan has brought together broad public participation, as was the objective of local Agenda 21, and it is particularly important to facilitate children and young people, businesses and stakeholder organisations. A survey has been carried out among schoolchildren in the area. The children responded unsolicitedly that they lacked natural experiences and a clean and clean environment, for they do not have them today. Otherwise, we have good experience with similar development projects in Oslo, both the Environment City of Old Oslo and Akerselva Umweltpark. But here it takes something more than praiseworthy mention and that the ministry wants the environment to be happy; in fact, it also requires financial support. The Environment Minister’s own party in the capital has called for progress in the work on the Action Plan for Alna, and my question is whether there is one policy for the Left in Oslo in opposition, and another when the Left is in position and rarely really can do anything.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e204	The Progress Party supports the interference of the Workers Party. What must be a main task of the Government in this matter is to ensure that the State has close cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo and not least with the six districts that have taken the initiative to set up the Alna Umweltpark multi-use plan. The Council of State said in its statement that this must be the responsibility of the Municipality of Oslo. Yes, but we must not fail to believe that the state must also take on a great deal of responsibility for the environmental problems facing the Groruddalen. The situation today is that Oslo has a large shortage of residential areas, and a development of the less attractive areas today – with Alna Umweltpark – will help to make housing areas more attractive to build in. In this way, the idea of organic urban development is fulfilled. Where public transport infrastructure already exists to a large extent, it is important in the future that the State assumes its responsibilities and cooperates well with the Municipality of Oslo on its plans. If the Municipality of Oslo is to engage in this plan, the State must also assume its responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e211	It is positive that we also have the opportunity to discuss the Alna Umweltpark plan here in the Chamber, although this is essentially a matter for the Oslo municipal authorities. Like the inter-pellant, I see that the state can also play an important role in coordinating interests and government plans in the area. The environment in Groruddalen has not received the attention it deserves, and the environmental pressures here are high for the population. For many, Groruddalen is a transit area. With its three main entryways to Oslo, the problems of particulate matter and other pollution are great. The problems have not been reduced since Gardermoen was opened as the main aerodrome. The need for continuous green areas with room for recreation and leisure activities is therefore high. The hope must be that you can not only reopen the closed river sections and create a park-like area, but that you can also put pressure on the work of cleaning the water in the river in parallel, so that you can also set up attractive bathing areas along the river. The objective of an active policy for water treatment and remediation along the rivers of Oslo must be that all seven rivers of Oslo should appear as oasis and green lungs in the city. Given the fact that Norway is described in the EU’s tourist charter as Europe’s green lung, it is important that the country’s capital appears to be a city where environmental protection is a matter of course. Unfortunately, it is not today. The Council of State presented Akerselva Umweltpark as an example of how a so-called problem area can be developed into an area where it is good for people to live, work and stay in leisure. It is true that the Akerselva project was largely a successful project, thanks to, among other things, that the department was heavily involved in cooperation on cleaning up. But it is important that this project is completed and that what is processed is maintained. It doesn't seem to be happening to a sufficient extent today. The six districts that together have traveled the idea of the multi-use plan Alna Umweltpark deserve homage and support. The initiative is fully in line with the idea of local Agenda 21, and I hope, like the Council of State, that a regional focal point for local Agenda 21 can be established in Oslo, so that activities such as the establishment of this environmental park can be coordinated. It will also be fully in line with the principles adopted by the Stortinget in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 58 for 1996-97 in the spring. Its name is, among other things, in comments related to the objective of reducing the number of cars in cities: ‘Reducing the land needs of cities and agglomerations related to roads and parking places will facilitate the maintenance of the green structure, the establishment of a satisfactory network of pedestrian and cyclist roads and the preservation of indigenous cultural memories and environments.’ Let me join in the government's positive assessment of Alna Umweltpark and her willingness to contribute to the realization of the plans. I would also like to point out that the Government has now given clear notice that one will have stricter requirements for noise and air quality. This may prove to be very important for Oslo and especially for the population of the Groruddalen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e227	First, I would like to thank Marit Nybakk for bringing this matter up in Stortinget. Apparently, it may seem like a purely local matter, but there are so many perspectives in it that it deserves to be discussed here. I have lived for the last 10-15 years so that I can see straight out of the window downwards Akerselva and have seen the tremendous change that has occurred there through the implementation of Akerselva Umweltpark. When one at the top of it lays the plans that are built for the inner east, which also give visible results, the result of this, I have to say, has been formidable changes. Of course, there are also other features in society, but anyone who has seen areas along Akerselva evolve over a decade has seen how colossal changes have been in a positive direction, partly as a result of public plans by the municipalities of the state and Oslo. The result is, sometimes we feel, almost so overly successful that the area has got such an in-and-out that we who have lived there for a long time are being overrun by people who like to live there, of course with that result, among other things. that prices have increased enormously, and that some of the distinctive features have disappeared in a kind of new urban modernity – which also has a great deal to do with it. So the question is how much of this can be transferred to Alna. Actually, I think it's a good deal. Alna or Groruddalen need much of the same measures as the inner city of the east. Today, most of the problems are probably greater in Groruddalen and many of Oslo's urban cities than they are in the inner city east. The Groruddalen is a great area, but has too much impact on the bedroom and industrial area and should receive a similar injection from the municipality and the state that the inner city east has. An Alna plan is part of such thinking, and I think we need to see it as a national responsibility. State Council Mountains have the same chance here to mark themselves and at least put their name into the history of Oslo that Sissel Rønbeck had through Akerselva Umweltpark. By appreciating this, we will also remember Guro Fjellangs, for a long time after the current government has ceased – whether it happens quickly or in any longer term. Finally, the answers given by the Council of State are, to a large extent, OK. I have no objections to any of them. But I would like to feel a little bit more that there was power behind this, because you have all the bureaucratic, political and economic obstacles that need to be cut through to get this done. The leap from talking about it, like we're doing here, to actually implementing this is so big that you would have to do this very much if you were to get it done. I wish a little clearer signal about this will. It can be exaggerated partly by visible force in what is said, but then by the will to intervene against the state agencies that need to be regulated in this area, the will to inject some money also from the state, and the will simply to cut through all the difficulties that will arise along the way. If you don't have that will, you won't get this done either.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e240	It's been a while since the idea of an environmental park along Alnaelva was launched – more people have been into it today. Urban selections, local well-being and urban parties have shown an impressive commitment, and I understand that. The inhabitants of the neighbouring districts may experience that the surrounding environment can be upgraded by quite simple means to restore vitality and recreation, as Erik Solheim had done at Akerselva. The issue is classical in Oslo context, as many actors, both state, private and local, have interests in the area. It is therefore a challenge to achieve coordination in this area. But at the same time, it is important to stress that Alnaelvas is primarily a local responsibility. The task of the Municipality of Oslo is to promote planning, but the State can also contribute, primarily by establishing a communication, forming common objectives and coordinating its run in relation to land use. I am aware that last year the Ministry of Transport met representatives of the project to be informed about the matter, and, as many know, the Minister of Transport is concerned about how the state behaves as a landowner. I also trust that the Ministry of the Environment will take the necessary action on this matter and pass it on, so as to avoid bit by bit for bit development under the direction of commercial interests or state agencies. The Ministry of the Environment may also contribute to the access of the Alna project to both competences and networks that may prove crucial in further work. However, with regard to the financing of the project, it should not be put under the chair that the Municipality of Oslo has a special responsibility. In Oslo City Council, the Left Group has tried to bring together the majority of increased municipal appropriations for the project, unfortunately, without success. In conclusion, I feel a need to stress that this project must never function as abandoned to Groruddalen and put other projects and needs in the shadow of this whole area. For too many years, the Groruddalen has been treated in a vote by both the state and the municipality. Much needs to be done in many fields and in many areas before the people of Groruddalen get the bet they deserve. From this point of view, Alna Umweltpark can act as a sort of starting point for the renewal, greening and re-regulation that is needed in this rich area, and I hope that this debate can contribute in this direction.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e253	I would first like to thank you for the debate and also for the input from the other representatives. I think it is very positive that there is such a broad consensus among those who have spoken that this project is important, and – as the representative of Solheim emphasised very strongly – that the environmental perspectives for Alna Umweltpark are so great that they go far beyond municipal responsibility. It must therefore be an overall state responsibility in cooperation with municipal authorities to get a project like this. I look at the Co-operation Forum for urban development that is very interesting in this context. I noticed with great interest that the Council of State took up this cooperation forum, where there are nine departments involved. I believe that the governance group of the Alna Umweltpark, the urban areas involved and the Oslo Municipality – and I would like to emphasise once again that there is a majority of the City Council of Alna Umweltpark – should know its visit time and try to get some funding for the project through the precisely Cooperation Forum for Urban Development, which is a follow-up to the major urban messages. And of course, as the Council of State says, and as others have stressed, it is necessary for the same bodies to agree jointly on how this is done. But as far as I know, there is no disagreement about the plans available today, including: in the interim report that has arrived. Then I want to underline what Husøy said about the health problems in this area. When several of us say that the environmental perspectives for Alna Umweltpark go far beyond municipal responsibility, it is because it is the state infrastructure projects up through the decades that have caused environmental pollution in the area, there is the total lack of recreational and recreational areas, and it is the fact that last autumn air pollution and noise problems in the lower part of the Groruddalen have increased. This is the area of the city that, as far as I know, is most heavily burdened in terms of the environment, noise and air pollution. Finally, let me also agree with the representative, Mr Fladmark, who stressed that, of course, Alna Umweltpark should not act as an excuse for not doing anything in the rest of the Groruddalen. Of course, the transport projects that are absolutely necessary to ensure the environment in the Grorud valley must go their own way, and we should not forget them.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e267	Of course, I am holding this final post as Minister for the Environment, but also probably as a representative of those who have ‘invaded’ Oslo in the inner East in the last ten years. I moved yours seven years ago. I would like to stress that when I place such emphasis on the responsibility of the municipality in relation to the plan work, it is not accidental. I am absolutely convinced that the Planning and Building Act will in the future be one of the most important tools we have in environmental policy, and I am very convinced that it is important that we insist that municipalities and counties have a separate responsibility to balance different interests and to ensure that environmental considerations are integrated into spatial planning. Similarly, of course, the State has a responsibility to ensure that its activities are adapted to the environment and that there is good dialogue between state authorities and local authorities where the State operates. I hope that we have helped to clarify the state's interests, among others. through the circulars we have collected in what has almost become a book, and in which I see a need to clean up, because it is very extensive and very detailed today. I also want to stress that the experience we have so far with coordinating the state interests in Bjørvika and Bispevika has been very positive. We have, I think, been given fresh impetus to the cooperation between the City Council of Oslo and the Government in recent times. But I also think it is important to say that one of the main reasons why cooperation works so well is that it is coordinated in the way it is done at the request of the City Council in Oslo. That's why I've underlined the importance of getting it in place. Like the representative Nybakk, I think the cooperation forum for urban development can be very exciting. What I tried to say at the outset, that Alna Umweltpark should not only be a separate, independent initiative, but enter into a larger context, where we try to draw development across the Grorud valley into this cooperation forum, I think it will be an important contribution. I also believe that getting a node for local Agenda 21 will be a very good follow-up to the great commitment that the people in this area themselves have shown, and will give them the opportunity to be involved in the work. Finally, let me say that I, like several of the representatives, am concerned that there is often a close link between environmental problems and health problems. On the basis of the debate which has so far taken place here in the Chamber, I am now quite positive given that the Government has put forward proposals for new national air quality objectives in the context of the Ministry of the Environment's budget, and I hope and believe that we can reach an agreement in this Chamber that these new objectives will be adopted. This will mean a good improvement in the environment, but not least it will mean a major health improvement for the inhabitants of the Groruddalen and the rest of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e282	Then the interpellation debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e294	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to three minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e305	\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t The fight for a safer society and against crime is important for the Workers' Party. The need for individual safety, law and order must be taken seriously. These objectives can all be quickly agreed upon. However, reasons and instruments are complex and complex and require politicians to move under the headings and symbolism policies. There are no simple solutions. We must tackle criminal acts, but also counteract and prevent illegal acts. I stress this whole policy in the fight against crime because it is necessary, and I am pleased that a unanimous justice policy is behind such an analysis. The Labour Party believes that such a whole must also be taken into account in the justice sector. In the field of security and legal certainty, police, courts and criminal justice are a chain where all stages require follow-up, including in consultation/cooperation with other sectors and non-governmental organisations. The treatment in the Storting today of the Crime Prevention Communication represents the preliminary final stone of a long-term effort to review the overall implementation of criminal law and care. There has been no great surprise to anyone that the Workers' Party has received the content of the message positively, all the time the work has been done over several years, even under our governments. But I want to start by pointing out, in fact, the broad consensus of the Justice Committee and the Storting on the aims of criminal justice and the content of the criminal enforcement that the notification sets out. It is a primary objective that criminal responses are implemented as soon as they are legally enforceable. Reactions shall be carried out in a humane manner and shall ensure legal certainty and non-discrimination between individuals. At the same time, the risk of escapes, failures and fractures during settlement must be minimised. Another main objective of criminal justice is to facilitate the criminal’s own efforts to take responsibility for a crime-free life after acquittal. I have taken these objectives from a unanimous committee position from last autumn, and they are the starting point for setting the current big-time message. The Committee points out that the use of punishment by society has many aims and needs to be weighed both by courts and by criminal justice. The Committee stresses that the diversity of prisoners requires a differentiated implementation of penalties, with objective grounds for discrimination between prisoners. The main challenge is to structure and target content that can better facilitate a crime-free life. There is agreement to establish a progressive zone, which should be characterised by a phase-out from closed to more open shelter. This shall focus on the motivation and suitability of the conviction and shall be subject to a safety assessment. Violation of the prerequisites for participation shall be responded to, e.g.: with a return to basic soning for a shorter or longer period. Future plans, contact persons and development of impact programmes are necessary components of a progressive zone. The Committee agrees that prisoners who participate in such a settlement and who have complied with the conditions through the time of settlement should be able to execute part of the sentence outside prison or institution in a transitional phase against release. Drawings in criminal environments may lead to situations requiring the provision of high-level security custody and settlement facilities. The Committee supports the proposal to include in each crime prevention region prison departments which may change from a normal to an additional high level of security. The situation of mentally ill prisoners has been a recurring problem for prison services, and – I would say – it should be for our health services. There have been improvements, but still the supply of prisoners with mental health problems is not satisfactory. Some of the problems can be solved when the new special reaction system is put in place, and the proposal for own resource departments in some institutions, supported by the Committee, can also address the needs. In this context, the Committee discusses the use of isolation in the institutions. The use of exclusive spaces, if necessary in a number of contexts, provides an impression for the individual and may lead to health pressures with long-term psychological damage as a result. The Ministry must pay particular attention to these issues, especially in relation to the use of exclusive facilities for prisoners with mental health problems. The majority of the Committee considers that the possibility of open settlement should be extended as part of a progressive zone, but also by direct deployment. More zones may be subject to lower safety measures than is currently the case. The majority justify this because the failure of open-ended settlements shows very low numbers, and that there are few disciplinary infringements of open-ended settlement options. Open spaces are also appropriate to prepare for the transition to society after settlement. However, safety and fitness shall be taken into account, and there shall be a low tolerance and rapid response in the event of a breach of the open-ended conditions. The majority of the Committee considers that the general rule should continue to be the assessment of parole at two-thirds of the time, where the release is to be an integral part of the criminal execution. The probation procedure shall not be an automatic procedure but shall be based on an individual assessment where one or more specific conditions may be imposed. Experience has shown that the early post-release period is the most critical and the Committee agrees that all prisoners should be supervised for a period after release. The size has shown several times that breaches of the supervisory regime must have consequences. The threat of insertion into the probationary period must be real. In order to ensure the possibility of a rapid reaction, we agree that the Department should consider transferring the competence to decide to reinstate the criminal service from the Court of Justice. The question of setting up a separate prison or prison unit for foreign prisoners to be expelled after settlement is discussed in the communication. The majority of the Committee agrees with the Ministry that this is not a good solution. A separate prison with a restrictive settlement regime is likely to lead to a high level of conflict, require considerable resources and high staffing. As is the case for the Nordics, individual assessment of non-residents in terms of settlement form must also be carried out. Effective control of prisoners, regardless of whether they are Norwegians or non-residents, can best be achieved by flexible use of current instruments and by increasing their efforts in the capture environment. The majority of the Committee is pleased that community and community services are now an accepted part of the overall implementation of penalties. But we believe that the content of the social penalty and the reaction to the violation must be clarified and intensified. Under such conditions, we support an increase in the use of community sanctions. The majority support the proposal that the court should be able to impose jurisdictions for the implementation of the oversight programme, which strengthens the possibility of exercising control over those sentencing judges. Furthermore, the majority supports the fact that supervisory programmes should be laid down as a special condition by conditional judgment. It is emphasised that breaches of conditions must be reacted to, but that the current options that lie between warning and conversion to unconditional imprisonment are too poorly developed. In this context, the majority ask the Ministry to come back with proposals for several response options, including proposals for short-term imprisonment as described in the Communication. The Committee agrees on various premises that we want to propose a pilot project on electronic control supervision. The majority are based on the experience of Sweden, where the scheme has now been proposed on a permanent basis. This form of reconciliation preserves the security of society, is a tactile restriction of freedom, while limiting the adverse effects of the sentence. Electronic control must be based on consent and be an alternative to shorter unconditional judgments, such as: per million dollars. I used to be concerned with the content of criminal prosecution, how important keywords are progression sonar, resolution plan, impact programmes and contact person. A key challenge is to identify measures and methods that can help to combat future crime and thus increase social security. Individual needs and prerequisites must be used to support the responsibility and willingness of convictions to break free from crime. It is an objective that all convicted persons should be able to receive a relevant programme offer. The new objectives for the content of compensation require the development of skills and the further training of staff in criminal matters. There is full agreement within the Committee on the level of ambition in this area. The emphasis is placed on cooperation with the service providers, both during the compensation and for the after-sales protection. Similarly, the emphasis is placed on related and non-governmental organisations as the basis for a social network. Other speakers from the Workers' Party will address the content of the settlement in more detail. A particular problem is drug abuse for prisoners and criminal services. The work here must be directed both at the means of control and at the offer of the prisoners under restitution. In particular, with regard to the control measures and the issue of methadone treatment, we will link this to the examination of the budgetary position, as we have received, among other things. the action plan for control measures relatively late in committee. Criminal law shall have sufficient capacity to meet the need for places to execute criminal convictions and custody. The Committee considers that rolling plans relating to the capacity challenges and volume forecasts of criminal services, including manning and building mass, are needed. Furthermore, it is necessary to carry out a planned review of the rehabilitation and, where appropriate, the repair of existing buildings. In the light of the need for custody and regular settlements in the Eastern region, the Committee wishes to start planning a new prison in Eastfold. Common target group, objectives and options for flexible use of different enforcement options, as the Committee sees it, provide for closer organisational coordination of prison services and care. The traditional distinction between detention and freedom-limiting responses is difficult to maintain. They are both part of a common criminal enforcement system. This is the basis for our desire for joint regional management of prison services and care. As I mentioned at the outset, there is a broad political consensus on large parts of the criminal services notification. All of this is to secure society and contribute to less crime. Then we have to innovate that this will require increased resources both for investment and staffing. Current reports on closed departments, the absence of jobs and the assessment of the need for activities underline this. Together, we must help to ensure that the good intentions of the criminal service report and today's suspension do not end only as verbal wishes. This is a challenge for all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e358	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e361	I have two questions. The first one connects to open ground. Today's practice is that open settlement is used for crimes with convictions of up to six months, while the Committee will extend it to judges of up to two years. Then it is important that the majority of the committees clarify what types of crimes they mean by up to two years. If you think about it, for example. that all persons sentenced to rape — the average sentence of rape of 1,9 years — shall thereafter be able to obtain open compensation? The second question is what types of crime can be attributed to community service. There has been a broad consensus that community service should not be used in connection with moral crime, violent crime, family violence or serious drug crime. This was clarified by the case rapporteur, Tor Nymo, on 26 January 1995, when a case about this was dealt with in Stortinget. At the time, the then rapporteur also said that it had to be closely monitored that there was no slippage in the courts by social services being used for this type of crime, and that the majority was willing to assess a narrowing if such a practice developed. It is therefore important that the representative, on behalf of the majority, confirms that this view is still valid, so that, as a general rule, social services cannot be used for this type of serious crime referred to here and for which there has been a broad consensus in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e368	Let me take the last question first, about community service. I'm basically glad that there's a full acceptance that community service is part of the criminal enforcement system. I think that acceptance is based on the premise of the Stortinget in its time that one should not use community service for serious drug issues, various types of violence and moral crime. I have also recorded from the Storing Notice that a review of the Supreme Court’s judgments in the first half of the 1990s has shown that the courts use that form of criminal enforcement as they assume it. We haven't found a basis for going in here and giving the impression that we might want to do an incision. So, there's no other perception from our side than the Stortinget founded in its time. When it comes to open-ended housing, I've gone through a little bit of the reason why we think it's a useful form of reconciliation that it's good to increase the use of. I stress that it takes care of the purpose of the criminal execution, that one has a low failure and that one has few disciplinary offences. At the same time, some of the grounds are that one must take care of the security of society, but also the suitability of the prisoners. It turns out that there are a number of convictions that can be zoning under lower security measures than is the case today. And as long as the purpose of the punishment and security of society is taken care of, we have no objection to the fact that one can also assess the imposition of sentences that are punishable for up to two years, but here we will not go into and instruct the courts in relation to the fact that some types of punishment or some types of crime cannot be assessed. The courts and criminal services must have the opportunity to assess it flexibly on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e379	I registered that the case rapporteur from the Workers' Party said that he believed that compensation should start immediately after a judgment is enforceable. However, in the notes, the working party accepts a waiting time of up to two months. I myself had a meeting with a mother who met the killer of her son on the street a week after this person had been punished for a long time. It's an example now from Hamar, where a person who killed a twelve-year-old boy, several weeks after he was convicted in the court of law, was observed on his stump drinking beer. I have talked to a violent girl who experienced that her rapist in the waiting period, which was then three months old, used the time to rape a 15-year-old girl. The opinion of the Progress Party is that a person convicted of such serious crime should be immediately transported from the courtroom to a prison cell, either for custody while waiting for the judgment to become enforceable, and then for the commencement of the ordinary settlement, or for the commencement of the settlement if the judgment is valid. My question is: Does the Workers' Party accept that persons who have committed serious rapes, or who have committed other serious crime, even murders, can be taken on the streets by the relatives of their victims after they have been sentenced to punishment? With what justification is it possible to accept this waiting time of two months, especially now that prison capacity is available and several departments are closed?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e388	I don't think there's such a big difference in terms of the main goal of calling a pardon. The main objective, as also stated in the notice, is that a person should begin to pay the penalty immediately after the judgment in force has been served. But in general, it might be problematic to follow Jan Simonsen's scheme, which necessarily means that everyone has to be run from court to atoning, because the judgment is not automatically enforceable, there will always be a period between here. I also think, as has been explained both in the context of community service and open reconciliation, that a person must simply take into account both the different purposes of punishment and the seriousness of crime. And if it turns out that it takes a month before the judgment becomes enforceable, it's not certain that everyone needs to spend time in custody. But when Jan Simonsen refers to this example, I think that the courts, among other things, should take more account of the general view of law in relation to the seriousness of the crime committed. With regard to our second objective, that we should try to start a reconciliation of all the judges within two months, I feel at least that it is the right way to go, and it turns out that essentially all the atonement starts within three months. But I repeat: the main objective is that all judges should be implemented – and punished – as soon as they are legally enforceable.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e395	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e398	I read in the record of the throne debate that my colleague, Jørn L. Stang, accused Right of being a party that, through its policy in practice, stands on the side of the criminals. The right-wing leader, representative Jan Petersen, felt that the claim had to be attributed to ‘starter nerves’. It's with respect to report a rather arrogant answer. I can tell the representative Jan Petersen and others in the Right that I kept my first post from this pulpit in 1981 – so I am not a beginner – and I have no problem repeating Mr. Stang's claim that through voting in the Stortinget, the Right, along with other parties, have been on the side of the criminals for many years. The representative Petersen should therefore seek a new explanation as to why the Advance Party made such a claim. Maybe the simple explanation is that it's right. It is no more than two years since the Right participated in the adoption of a police budget that led to a crisis in the police action as early as February. Over the five years I have been a member of the Justice Committee, the right has voted in favour of a whole range of proposals for stricter criminal responses. And today, the Right will vote on eight proposals from the Progress Party that everyone intends to secure more stringent penalties and a tougher regime for the criminals. Through today’s voting sessions, the Right will vote against the proposals of the Progress Party in order to allow for acquittal even after a judgment is enforceable, and for community service to be used as an alternative for persons who have committed such serious crime that they would normally be punishable in a prison cell. The right will vote against giving legal support in order to impose significant additional penalties on prisoners who run away from acquittal, so that there will still be no serious consequence if a prisoner chooses to stay home after a leave. On the right, there will be no automatic period of supervision for criminals after settlement and do not want a central non-vaccination treatment institution for people who kill other people because they are psychotic. The result of the last position will be that more people are at risk of being killed by unpredictable people who have been released prematurely from psychiatric hospitals. Right tends to argue that the proposal of the Progress Party is too bastant, too square. Right will use the expression ‘as a general rule’. For example, atoning as a general rule should start immediately after they are legally valid, but not always. We also know that argument from the debate on the expulsion of criminal foreigners. In the opinion of the Right, they shall only be expelled as a general rule. In other words, the right opens up a whole range of exceptions and gives good defence lawyers every opportunity to process in favour of their client being exempted from the main rule. In other words, the risk of effusion is extremely serious. Means, as a general rule, that the rule applies to 99 pst. of the cases, for 80 pst., 60 pst. or 55 pst.? The boundaries will, of course, be trodden over time. Right-wing criminal policy is willless and relaxed, like the Government, the Workers' Party and the SVs. It's sad. Because what Norway needs now is a uncompromising and hard fight against crime and therefore for a better society for all of us. Norwegian prison policy has been characterised by the KROM stakeholder organisation of the prisoners in the last ten years. The argument that the intention of punishment is release and repatriation to society has led to the removal of most of the criminal element during the settlement of penalties that are initially unreasonably short. When the punishments are only in a few months, and the ransom gives maximum freedom in addition to free diet and lodging, work training and study opportunities, the fear of a criminal should disappear after release in order to get back behind the walls. A criminal reaction cannot be preventative unless it feels like a punishment. This development is all reason to warn against. It contributes to increased crime, and it leads to a high risk that new people may be victims of crime committed by criminals who are in the streets while they should be sitting behind closed doors. The return to society and the training to associate with other people outside the prison walls should only start at the end of the reconciliation period or after the termination of the settlement. The combination of the fact that a criminal of his own experience has perceived that it is actually unpleasant to sit in a prison cell, and good control and follow-up after the sentence is pronounced, in the opinion of the Progress Party, is the way to go. The collective KROM wave from our political opponents from Right to Left should be replaced by a firm, clear and borderline prison policy if we are to achieve greater security for legal citizens. So finally, a explanation of vote: it concerns the setting point V of the home soning. Home reconciliation is therefore a form of house arrest and can be positive if it is an alternative to conditional punishment. Of course, if a youth steals a car or breaks a route, it is borderlined that he has to stay indoors for a few months and sit in house arrest rather than go loose on the street and in reality get no punishment and just keep stealing more cars. However, if home-sonation is made an alternative to zone in a prison, there will be considerable liberalisation. Of course, it will feel a lot more comfortable for a prisoner to live at home with his own family than to sit in a prison cell. That is why the Progress Party will vote against V and also against the liberalisation which is open to it in proposal No. 13th@item: inlistbox Finally, I would like to comment on the proposals from the Progress Party, which are printed in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e438	Jan Simonsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e444	That the Progress Party is not on the criminal's side, at least I'm absolutely sure, because if there's anything the Progress Party looks forward to, it's being allowed to punish and punish again and preferably to punish again. So my question to the Progress Party is: does not the Progress Party see the possibilities that lie there to give a criminal a new start, to give him a new opportunity to start again, without a nerdy up under the thought that one should resume? Because by constantly pointing to the fact that one should have the most severe punishment from the courts, more disciplinary punishment in prison for bad behavior, one dares to wonder that the criminal should be able to recover once he escapes, instead of giving him the opportunity to find out that he has committed a criminal act, which requires him to start a new way of life when he comes out again. It can't be done by negligently punishing and punishing. Then a game must be played on other people's strings, try to make them understand, and at the same time give them the possibility of going back to society lawfully, socially, educationally, and at work. When it comes to punishing people, the Progress Party is conservative, but when it applies for example. having weapons in the home or free in society, they are peculiarly liberal. There is no link in the policy of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e451	As far as I remember, the only exception to the Arms Act between the Progress Party and the Workers' Party was the question of the police's right to have unannounced visits to private homes. Of course, it is important that a prisoner understands that he must start a new life course when he has finished the atonement. If a prisoner, especially a juvenile criminal, is to understand that, he must also understand that committing a criminal act has an unpleasant consequence. A juvenile criminal who knocks down a person on the open street, and who only gets three-four months in prison for this, as we've seen examples of, when he's going to zone as short a time and the ransom is going on with access to leave, with full diet and lodging and TV in relatively simple atoning conditions, will just appear as tough for the gang. When he comes out, he's the hero. He's been in prison for a few months. They just think they're tough. It must have a completely different consequence if these prisoners are to understand that they have done something wrong. The only way to help these people is they actually realize that they're inside a crazy racetrack. But it is wrong to believe that the Progress Party does not want to help these people back to society again. I would like to refer to our proposal No. Add User-ID Succeeded ‘The cancellation requests the Government to establish a system of a fixed period of supervision of at least 3 months for prisoners who have served more than 1 month in prison.’ All shall be entitled and entitled to a period of supervision of at least three months, even if they have served only one month in prison. However, such a period of supervision is introduced not only to verify that they do not commit new crimes, it is also introduced to enable them to follow them up and provide them with help on the way back to society. But this help has to start after settlement. We can't get anywhere if the return to society is going to start almost before you start the settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e465	I choose to believe the representative Simonsen in his words when he says that the Progress Party and he himself are concerned about people being rehabilitated and brought back to society as law-abiding citizens. But there's something strange in the way that this is going to happen, because it's being produced at the same time as if there's only one method that's the way to go, namely, through rigour and this that goes on the harder regimes. I don't know where Simonsen got this from, that it's the method that's effective. Is it from states where people are, then, without legal protection, and where are punishments imposed that are so long that they have no connection whatsoever with the crime committed? Where did Simonsen get this? It's necessary, I think, to ask whether Simonsen and the Progress Party believe that the path to a less criminalized society goes only through rigour and hardness. Is this the main element of the Progress Party's policy in this area? Other rehabilitation methods seem to be completely set in the shadow over this one that is hammered repeatedly. Does the Progress Party have any other approach than rigour and hardness?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e472	First, I would like to remind the Christian People's Party's representative that the Advance Party has voted in favour of appropriations for both prison priests and Christians, non-governmental organisations working within the prison system, so that we vote in favour of things other than just stricter penalties. But we live in a society with a high level of norm resolution. We see this again in street violence, in youth gangs – with youth down to the age of 12-13-14, which is becoming hard-boiled criminals. That's why the time is now for a much stronger degree of firmness, to set limits for these young people – in the name of genius, because it's just to make these young people, perhaps a first-time criminal, a serious bear service if we think they'll end up with crime only they get a slap on their shoulders. In today's society, with the evolution of crime we have today, for the sake of the young criminals themselves, it is necessary to show a much firmer attitude than what has been done so far. It should not least be understood by the Christian People's Party, as much as this party talks about problems with norm resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e479	It feels almost like an honor when the Right is made the object of attention in almost half the post of Jan Simonsen. This must mean that you really feel the competition in the neck and have almost had a little panic. But it gives me a loving opportunity to shed light on some of the important shades that exist between the Right and the Advance Party. We are criticised for the fact that we include in our proposals. use the words ‘as a general rule’ when we say which penalties are to be imposed for the various crimes. It's because we're emphasising that every court should be able to assess the individual and the individual's situation. We don't want a court in Norway that acts as a vending machine, so that any class of stumps can sit in and be judges without just focusing on the individual circumstances, the experiences, that lie behind the criminal act. We know examples in Norway where a child who has been abused throughout growth ends up with the unfortunate incident that the child kills an abusive father. We know situations in Norway where a wife who has been abused in a long marriage finally settles herself. In such cases, I am very happy that we do not have a vending machine court. Finally, I would like to advise Simonsen that you should learn something, for example. learning German is just as important to learn the exceptions as learning the general rules of German grammar. If you don't learn the exceptions, society becomes unknowing, flat and a very little pleasant place to live.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e488	Although Stortinget places some minimum penalties, the courts will have a great deal of scope to choose from. There are minimum and maximum penalties, and there are up to 10 years' imprisonment in different ways in criminal investigations, so no one has to come and say that even if we set certain minimum penalties for certain types of crime, the courts are completely prevented from taking individual considerations into account. Although it is said that no one should be given community service if they have committed serious violence or moral crime — absolutely none and there should be no exception — the courts can choose between a considerable number of months and years in terms of the measurement of the prison sentence itself. The problem with the Right's proposal is that this, as it seems, is meant to be restrictive, opens up so many exceptions that in a few years' time it will in practice lead to slippage and new liberalisation, so that we get back to where neither the Advance Party nor the Right wants to be. Right, talking about getting a humane and a good society, should first of all think about the goal of bringing down crime and using the necessary tools to achieve this goal. Otherwise, we get a pretty tough, bad and difficult society, not only for ordinary law-abiding citizens, but also for the many young people we now share in presenting the red runner, and sending out into a criminal racetrack that will ruin their lives. Gunnar Breimo had taken over the president's office here.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e497	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e500	The paper on criminal care had been waiting for many for a long time. There was a need to clarify what and where we wanted with society's responses to criminal acts and behaviour. Minister of Justice Aure deserves tribute for having quickly prioritised the work on the matter and for the content of the message. Through what is said, there is a clear view of humanity that highlights the self-esteem of every person and demands respect and support. This is important to be clear, not least in the case of people who have committed one or more crimes. Criminal care aimed at changing attitudes and behaviours by people needs to be based on respect and self-esteem in order to foster and stimulate the positive opportunities for change. At the same time, it is necessary to provide for the need for protection, respect and justice of society and its victims. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the message shows a good combination of realism and visionary goals. We are also very pleased with the broad agreement that the Government gets from the Committee in all its essential choices for future criminal justice. In the Christian People's Party we have faith in a pedagogically organized and adapted program for the rehabilitation of individuals. The execution of the penalty shall be based on its individual preventive effect and on its intention to influence the conduct of the sentence in order to seek to prevent further crime. This will necessarily require major contributions from the judgment. However, it also poses a further challenge to the professional competence and ability of employees to enter into the stand of the individual criminal in order to help him take the necessary responsibility for his own rehabilitation. In the October issue of the Forum, the head of the Norwegian Prisons and Free Welfare Associations writes that if the Justice Committee agrees that ‘daily life in prisons is to be influenced by an active cooperative’, it must at the same time be aware that such a principle can only be met where there is someone to interact with. Yes, that's obvious. But at the same time, we have to deal with the fact that empowerment and readjustment do not happen by turning a switch or coming automatically after a good night's sleep. On the other hand, the introduction of competences and functioning in new roles takes place through planning and gradual development. There is also a clear majority in the Committee to increase the use of community sanctions, so that prison sentences are reserved for more serious crime. However, social penalties must only be applied where it is justified in the interests of society's requirements for protection and for reasons of general legal certainty. An important innovation in social services is that, in addition to the current system of employment obligations, the right can provide that convictions must implement a supervisory programme. We think this will be a suitable tool to help ensure crime-free social adaptation. Some other countries have gained good experience in leaving some zones for example. in owner-occupied dwellings under electronic control. When we go into a similar testing scheme, it's based on the belief that this will be beneficial for both the one who gets the zone under electronic control, and for society, who gets lower financial counts. However, it must be emphasised that violations of the conditions of all forms of community punishment must lead to a rapid and stronger response, in order to strengthen the credibility of the option to prison sentences. We also believe that the organisational reform will benefit both the prison system and the free movement of persons. The broad consensus on the content of the Government’s Communication on Criminal Welfare should be a secure foundation for administration and other employees to renew and strengthen efforts in favour of society and for the rehabilitation and reduction of relapses among former offenders.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e523	The Criminal Service Communication takes a small step in the right direction, and the Justice Committee in its position reinforces this small step. Stronger demands are being made for the consequences of damage to settlement conditions, while giving individual offenders positive opportunities to improve through the settlement process. The right wants the individual offender to meet with demands for responsibility for his actions, but we also want the responsible person to be given an opportunity to improve, gain self-esteem, receive education and be able to handle himself. Anyone who does not take responsibility must experience a consequence. Seizure and judgment are one consequence, and a clear response to criminal offences is another. The Committee therefore wants the prison director to be given the power to reinstate into prison the offender of parole. Today, it has to be done through the courts, so that the Committee takes action is an improvement and a strengthening. The Committee would also like the social service obligations to be combined with a supervisory programme to facilitate the response to infringements. It's a sharpening. And many of those who today get conditional imprisonment actually experience this as no punishment. Here, too, we want to extend the use of supervision, thereby introducing an aggravating element. The provision of a probationary system for the supervision of electronic control, home-soning, can provide a penalty alternative that lies somewhere between conditional and unconditional judgment, by reducing the severity of crime by home arrests at home under supervision. We have a little bit of a different premise for this trial plan, but it's shown in the committee setting. One of the main conclusions of the decision is that offences under social sanctions should be able to mean short-term imprisonment for seven days, even without having to go through the courts. This is important to the Right. That's a proper step on the right track. The right is also satisfied with a development in which the prisoner is given a more individual assessment related to the day-to-day settlement, in which the conviction is to show both the willingness to break the crime and the greater responsibility for his own life. But, as the Committee says, this must be balanced with the use of control, restrictions and coercion if the will to improve and the willingness to take responsibility is not present. These new instruments aim to combat relapses into crime. For this reason, it is important that the relapse becomes a clear performance indicator for the Ministry of Justice, so that we can see for the future which penalties work and for which groups criminals. The mildest forms of punishment are meant for those who are at the beginning of their criminal racetrack, and not for hard-boiled repeaters criminals. This is important if we want to have accepted from people most of the differentiated forms of punishment. The Committee as a whole states that the penalty shall be imposed immediately after the judgment has been given. The right and the Progress Party say it's going to happen right away. This is important because in many places there is a practice that is such that it is almost automatically allowed to go weeks or months after the sentence is passed before the sentence is sentenced to imprisonment. It gives such results as Jan Simonsen mentioned from Hamar, where a child killer was observed for weeks walking freely in the vicinity of the boy who was killed. It is unacceptable, and I expect the Minister of Justice to clear up the guidelines, so that the word ‘straight’ does not become two months as a general rule, but that it will be immediately. The environment in Norwegian prisons has grown. We have organized criminals with large foreign entries. We also have groups of prisoners with major behavioural abnormalities, mental problems, as we know from, among other things. Ila National Prison. The Committee therefore supports both the plans for several security departments for the harshest type of criminal, so that they can be isolated and, if necessary, moved to ensure safety, and we support the work of resource departments for prisoners with behavioural abnormalities. An increasing problem is also that mental retardants can be liable to criminal law and be placed in prison in the future. This poses quite major challenges for the prison system. It is also a responsibility to protect society against persons who have committed serious crime but are not considered to be liable to criminal law. This responsibility is now lower than that of the health service. The media have mentioned several cases in which killers who have been considered not to be liable to criminal law are released into the street a few weeks after they have been sent to a psychiatric institution, due to lack of space. Police are telling of sacred transport with dangerous people threatening the environment to a psychiatric institution, where these are released and actually returned to their homes before the police transport. Lenners tell of unbalanced people who are most likely to threaten women and children, but to whom hospitals refuse to accept unless the gentlemen provide police services — for which they do not have the resources. Although this sort of thing is under the Ministry of Health, I ask the Minister of Justice to take an initiative with the Minister of Health to make sure that an offer is made to this group of dangerous and unpredictable people, so that we have the necessary security in our society, because we do not have that today. The Committee disagrees with the view of open settlement. Today, prisoners with a sentence of up to six months are the preferred option to have zones in open prison, while the majority of the committee opens up the possibility of this being done by judges of up to two years. What I'm afraid, unless the Ministry of Justice or the majority clarify this more clearly, is that we can almost get a general rule where the rape criminals, who now receive an average of 1.9 years in punishment, go straight into open settlement. I think that will weaken society's trust in us and in the justice system. So there is a great responsibility here, both on the Minister of Justice and on the majority, in order at least to define the types of criminals that we here think should go straight into open settlement. The majority of the Committee further reinforces today's practice of parole, and that is good. Today, it's been like this that all of us are almost paroled after 2/3 of the time of atonement, anyway. Now the majority say that there has to be an individual assessment of each. If you break the terms of parole, it has to be a consequence of reinstatement, says the majority, and that's good. However, the right will go another step further and say that parole is something you should earn in good conduct, and it's not something that everyone can initially expect to get. The right is pleased that the Committee clarifies the punitive elements of the various forms of punishment, and we are pleased to intensify the response. As early as 1991-92, a unanimous judge said that there was a violation of, for example, the Treaty of Rome. community service would lead to the case being brought before the court to be turned into acquittal in prison. This has not happened. Here it's important to sharpen. It is important that those who do not meet for community service, who cheat and give the bluff, experience that in practice they are then sent back to unconditional prison. Fortunately, I got an insurance from the case rapporteur, who confirms that the view that the committee has previously held together, namely the types of criminal acts for which community service is not suitable, still applies. I confirmed that in his articles, and then I don't have to stay any longer on it. In the case of home soning, which is the new one, the Right sees clear fundamental concerns about it. There are great differences in the standard of living of the individual, and for many of us, zoning at home on your own sofa will not be seen as a special punishment. There may even be some of us who want to see it as a big plus to be allowed to sit at home at night – at least now when we go into the Stortingen budget. Finally, we have also dealt with the situation of the guards in the Committee on Civil Liberties. I am pleased that the care situation in Norway has now improved by reducing the maintenance time for the individual. On the other hand, it is important that adequate detention facilities are also available for the repeat offenders, such as those in prison. The Oslo Police are now trying to take faster and speed up their sentence. I expect the Minister of Justice can assure us that such places will exist.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e572	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e575	I assume that the representative agrees that the entire criminal service is directed towards adults and the adult world, that rehabilitation and accountability are to be done in the adult way and at the adult premises, whether we are talking about criminal services in prison, in freedom or the various programmes. In this picture it is quite remarkable to read in the newspaper of October 13 that the representative of Devold’s party colleague, Bjørn Hernæs, says that he will not at all reject the idea of lowering the criminal lavalry to 12 years – 12 years! I would like to have a clarification from the Right Judicial Counsel if it is so that this half of the Right fraction of the Judicial Committee has spoken on behalf of the Right. If that's the case, it's strange that we don't find any trace of that attitude in this setting of the criminal health service. It's strange that we don't find any evaluations about the special considerations that necessarily need to be there if we were to have children into the ordinary criminal care system. We have separate sections dealing with special groups in criminal care, namely women, foreigners to be expelled after an end to absolution, sick, psychiatric patients. But we haven't mentioned children, and it's quite simply because we other people thought that there was a consensus that children have nothing to do in ordinary criminal care, that the criminal devaluator should not be put so low that children go into that system. If the Right is in favour of something like that, it surprises me that they do so without any ethical considerations and any practical considerations being taken into account. Just take one of these things: where in the open air are you going to put the toys?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e585	I can reassure the representative that when we do not mention measures for 12-year-olds in prison in our attitude to the criminal health report, it is because the Right believes that there should not be 12-year-olds. We have a minimum criminal law age of 15 years in Norway. The right has thought that it can be lowered to 14 years, but that is a set of criminal alternatives as well as prisons that can also be used. In Norway today, the law is being practised so that people under the age of 18 rarely find themselves in prison at all, although there are certain cases where both 16-, 17- and 18-year-olds become murderers. And so there are some cases where they're in prison. What you can still stay a little while when you get that question is whether the Storting is doing enough to prevent a criminal career for children and young people. We don't. Probably it's become so that you don't even take advantage of the minimum criminal age we have today. We are still reading in the newspapers about stabbing episodes involving both 16- and 17-year-olds, who actually take place without any consequences. One thing is that the school community feels that they lack tools to intervene. The rectors say that they no longer have access to exhibiting students who act violently and threateningly. There, perhaps, the Storting should be conscious of its responsibility. The police are often sorry that these are so young that you may not intervene and get stopped at first what no one can accept, namely that children and young people can also terrorize and kill their peers. We can never bear to do that without having a consequence. - There was time. It is possible that I can take a three-minute insert as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e594	I'm sorry. I'm going over to a new theme. The head of the committee spoke about the problems of people who are unaccountable at the moment and therefore cannot be sentenced to prison sentences. The majority has previously decided that these persons should be judged for psychiatric treatment in their home countries. The rules are today so that the first few weeks of treatment should take place in a psychiatric institution, but then the treating doctor can print them out so that they can stay at home and get to treatment in the institution. Now, when we know what the pressure is on mental health protection today, with too few treatment sites, I think it's a real danger that most people will be printed out too early, before they're 100 pst. fresh. We know that people who have been in psychiatric institutions and who have been discharged prematurely have been behind a relatively large percentage of killings in Norway. Unfortunately, there are also examples of these patients taking their own lives. So my question is why the Right cannot support the proposals of the Progress Party to build a nationwide central institution for those people who cannot be sentenced to prison because they are unpredictable, where they can be treated in a prison-like environment that is free of escape – but of course it should be a treatment institution – and where you are sure that they will not be released into society again until they are 100 pst. freshly reported.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e603	The theme Jan Simonsen addresses is very important, and I think my main post showed that I share his concern for the situation – that's why I spent so much time describing this grey zone between the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Justice. Or, to put it another way: it's not really a grey zone either, because people who are not liable to criminal law are part of the Social and Health Department's sector, while persons who are liable to criminal law are part of the Justice Department's sector. The problem is that there is an offer in one sector, but not in the other. And that's a problem for the population. But whether the answer lies in one option that the Progress Party launches in its proposal in the vote, an institution for those who are really ill, is an open question. It would also be doubtful whether the Judicial Committee should set up institutions in the area of the Health Committee. That's why the Right has thought it's the cleanest thing to do in this round, asking the Minister of Justice to take responsibility for the fact that the people involved are not going to be throwing balls between the two systems. For both during the Committee's visit to Ila and our contact with janitors, police chambers, etc., which I enclose in my post, it is repeatedly stated that there is no provision in the health service to be made for these persons. Serious killers are sent out after three weeks in a psychiatric institution. The police are in despair, the community is in despair. That's why it's not enough for us in the justice sector to wash our hands and blame our health services; we also have to take an initiative against them, so that we can solve the problem for them.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e610	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e613	When Stortinget today treats St.meld. No 27 for 1997-98, at the same time, I believe that we are laying the foundation for a forward-looking criminal justice system in line with the challenges this important part of criminal justice is facing. As others have been going on, there is a message that has allowed itself to wait for a very long time, for too long, most will probably claim. In my time in the Justice Committee, I believe that all the Justice Ministers, and there are few, have announced that the Criminal Service Notice was just around the corner – without anything happening. However, there is history now, and there is every reason to thank the ministry for well done craftsmanship. As far as I have been able to register, the message is well received in all environments. The rapporteur, who also deserves praise for the work he has done, has had a thorough review of the message and the position. I will therefore pay attention to some points of view on parts of the setting. I am pleased that there is a great deal of political consensus on the broad lines of the communication. Crime is part of society's apparatus of power. It is therefore important to state that decisions taken by the criminal services continue to be enshrined in a humane and democratic value base. There is reason to say that crime violates fundamental social values and affects both the community and individuals. Crime creates insecurity and impairs the quality of life of very many people. Material destruction, physical damage and psychological stress caused by crime create major and, in part, lasting problems. The role of criminal justice is based on the punishment of offenders and on the protection of society. Social protection in the short term is covered by the level of safety and control established to prevent failure, while the long-term protection of society is ensured by the means employed for changing patterns of action and a crime-free life. In view of the fact that developments in criminal environments may lead to situations requiring the rapid availability of high-security custody and settlement facilities, it is worth noting that a unanimous committee supports the Ministry's proposal that there should be prison departments in each crime prevention region that will be able to change regimes in a short time from a normal to an extra high level of security. All parties in the committee, with varying premises, regard the use of community services as a component of a wide range of criminal alternatives. It is important to note that the majority of the Committee considers that the content of the social penalty and the response to breaches of the conditions must be clarified and reinforced. A unanimous committee supports the Government’s proposal to draw up individual reconciliation plans with measures that can help the prisoners to live a law-abiding life, focusing in particular on their own responsibility for their criminal behaviour and the will to change their criminal behaviour. In the Central Party, we are very pleased with the Committee's agreement to the Government's proposal for an amended organisational structure that can provide a basis for the decentralisation of tasks and decision-making powers and the flexible use of resources and personnel. Since I have been the case rapporteur for Document No. 8:92 for 1997-98, I will finally just refer to the unanimous vote which concludes that there are different works in progress in the Ministry of Justice covering the problems associated with custody prisons. On this basis, the Committee considered it appropriate to consider the outcome of that work before taking a concrete view of the proposal put forward in Document No. 8:92.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e644	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e647	An overall committee, including the representative, Ms Nymo, stated in the Committee’s introductory remarks that criminal reactions should be carried out as soon as they are legally enforceable, and stressed that a rapid reaction could have a preventive effect on further crime. Nevertheless, in another chapter, the representative Nymo expresses his wish for criminal responses to be implemented within two months of the judgment being enforceable. The representative accepts this as a result target for the implementation of the sentence. It seems unreasonable and unacceptable that a conviction should wait for a two-month pardon call. Meanwhile, a dangerous conviction can commit new serious crime, as there are several examples of, for example, the perpetrators of new rape. It is a serious burden for the victims to be at risk of hitting the convicted person in the surrounding area in the days following the judgment given in force. This proves that the representative Nymo does not have the victims and victims’ situation sufficiently in mind when criminal reactions are being treated. It is well confirmed when the representative states that the general rule must be that ‘no criminal sentence shall be zoned under more stringent conditions than is necessary for security and control’.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e654	I could have bothered to refer to the answer the case rapporteur gave to almost identical questions here earlier. When the representative Stang tries to interpret it so that it is my wish and my party that the implementation of atoning should not take place within two months, it is of course a concrete error. The general rule is that, as the Advocate General has stated, compensation shall be granted as soon as the judgment in force is delivered. And with all due respect: what it says that reconciliation is now to be implemented within two months is – the representative, Mr Stang, must agree – a clear improvement in relation to what has happened.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e661	In many areas, the SV agree with the conclusions of the majority. We are pleased that the majority say so clearly that greater emphasis should be placed on the content of the soning, on the progression zone, on the impact programme, on open school housing and on community service. We believe, however, that the model of housing in the institution should be as in Denmark and Sweden, where the starting point is housing in an open institution, and housing in a closed establishment should be justified. Two thirds of the settlements in Denmark and Sweden are in an open-ended institution. The Committee and Tor Nymo place great emphasis on housing in open school, and I encourage Nymo to take a good look at the proposal we are making. So I'm going to challenge Nymo with a critical mind to look at the proposal in the state budget to put relief prisons in Vik and in Kongsberg, and I do that because the premises are just put in this message. SV agrees with the Prison Officers’ Association, which suggests that prisons in Kongsberg should at least be considered as women’s prisons, as women then have more differentiated settlement options. Prison in Vik should be maintained because offenders in the West should also have a chance to keep in touch with their network. Furthermore, according to the information we have received, with low levels of drug abuse, this is a prison where there are conflicts and high levels of trust and contact between prisoners and employees. In a differentiated and decentralised chain, this has imprisoned its place, and then I wait with great tension for the position of the Centerpartet and Tor Nymo for this.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e672	I am pleased that the representative Valle also states that her party, SV, supports the main lines of the message. It reinforces the impression that most of us have, that the message is very good. She states that she would like someone to have a scheme that in Denmark, where, as she said, ‘the starting point is housing in an open school’. We've also been around the Nordic region looking at how they do it with compensation, and what kind of compensation they have for the prisoners. But we feel convinced, even after those visits, that the way we organize it here in Norway is at least not worse than what they have in our neighboring country. So to the concrete question of the closure of the prisons in Kongsberg and Vik. In the message we get a good overview of the volume of prisoners today, and we also get forecasts of future developments. We know that today there is different exploitation of the capacity of our prisons, and that it is, among other things, are part of prison departments that are not in service. What Valle is asking about are matters relating to the treatment of the state budget, and we will have plenty of opportunity to come back to it. We've also had visits from the districts that represent the two prisons that are specifically mentioned here, so we feel that we've got a decision-making basis that enables us to make the decisions that we think are right when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e682	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e685	First, I would like to pay tribute to the committee which has put up a very different and great debate. The biggest challenge for criminal services on our part is to help reduce the relapse into crime after acquittal. Therefore, SV initially supports the values and principles and main objectives and performance targets used by the criminal services message. The penalty shall aim at combating socially unacceptable acts and shall contribute to the maintenance of lawfulness and moral standards. SV also believes that a prerequisite for good rehabilitation is that there is a possibility of quick judgment and redress. There is a need to contribute to an effective use of available prison capacity. We also need to ensure a differentiated criminal execution, a criminal execution that works. SV believes that the introduction of compensation according to the system that one has in Denmark and Sweden, where the starting point, as I said in the last line change, is open settlement. There are currently 900 open sites in Norwegian prisons, and in line with increased use of progression zone and use of influence programmes and other interventions, Norway should also be assessed for these countries. SV also believes that it is important that impact programmes and other disciplines are not limited for resource reasons. In order to be more effective, there is also a need to contribute to the strengthening of criminal justice in freedom. In addition, it is important, in our view, to have close cooperation with the school and labour markets. The State’s Education Office in Hordaland points out that efforts to improve criminal convictions need to be increased and better coordinated. It is therefore appropriate to launch a comprehensive cooperation project between the different departments and the Directorate of Labour. Through this it is necessary to facilitate further work and training after release. SV also believes that it is important to initiate measures to change and improve the provision of work for women in prison, so that women too can have a chance of qualifying for work after housing. SV is also concerned with the principle of legal certainty and believes that it is necessary to ensure that the Court still needs to be used in the event of breach of conditions in the case of resettlement in a closed establishment. This is a decision that, in our opinion, cannot lie with the prison director, as it cannot be seen as an administrative decision. In addition, SV considers that an independent and stand-alone appeal panel should be established for important individual cases, which should ensure the legal certainty of the prisoners. In our view, changes in the law on legal aid must also be made in order to provide free legal assistance in criminal proceedings. In this round, SV will oppose the use of short-term prisons, and we want the sanctions available to you to be used effectively. With regard to the use of electronic control, we see that there may be a system of benefits, but at the same time we want to point out that this can contribute to class separation, and that it imposes greater burdens on families. That is why it is important that the family of the convicted person comes in with consent, so that this should be a voluntary scheme. SV is very concerned that there is also an effort to prevent crime, and we believe that this has been updated again in the last week. Effective prevention means many things, which also means increased involvement of the police and temporary posts, which allow for increased visibility outside and increased capacity for effective prevention work among young people. The Oslo Police Chamber informs us that 3 pst. of the youth stands for 80 pst. of crime. In many places, there is cooperation between the police and other agencies and organisations, and in our opinion, greater opportunities for such cooperation must be provided. In Loddefjord, Bergen, such cooperation is carried out with good results. In the Manglerud police district, police are concerned with crime prevention work among young people, and are out permanently per year. Weeks in the 14 schools in the district. This is an integral part of the work being done in the districts, and this has produced a good result. SV wants a greater focus on — and more resources to — other measures in relation to young people. In terms of crime prevention, this is a well-used resource. Finally, I would like to make the proposals that have now been distributed on the table of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e715	Since the Left is not represented in the Judicial Committee, it is probably right to start by giving a clear commendation and tribute both to the big message and to the committee setting. The rapporteur stated that there was broad support for the main principles of the communication. And so far as it's about the Workers' Party, the government parties and, well, the SV, it's right to express it. With regard to the dissensions of the Progress Party, I would like to make it clear that they are of such a nature that they should have been followed, we would have had to do with a completely different criminal code and enforcement than the other parties are in favour. In the right hand side, you might be a little bit more in doubt about how to characterize the lot. But as it appears in the setting, it is probably right to say that the Right is also involved in what is described as a reasonably broad consensus. Maybe that's in the question of parole you really find the greatest disagreement with the Right. I would like to express that the party's strong statements against the Right in the main post should take the Right as a compliment. I think I'll say it so that I've rarely heard that the Right has received such clear compliments and so much praise from others than the Right People. The Progress Party is also told that, in general, less use of social services and a stricter criminal regime is likely to lead to much more criminal acts – to what is really the reality – so that the Progress Party tries to express itself, namely that we are in a way the party of the criminals, becomes a complete misunderstanding and a misunderstanding in the debate. Preservation proposals are also part of the case. In the new year, Stavanger Aftenblad had a long and informative series of articles on the use of care in Norway in relation to other countries. The findings there and, to the extent that they are otherwise known, show that the situation in Norway is far from satisfactory in terms of the use of care. There are probably too many people in custody, and too many people have too much time in custody. The Committee refers here to the ministry's work on this issue, and I would like to express my confidence in the Ministry of Justice on these issues. One of the first justice ministers did was send out a circular on the use of police arrests, which in the committee position gets a very positive comment. However, in relation to this question, I would like to say that follow-up is important, both in terms of capacity at different stages and in terms of keeping an eye on any legislative changes that may be necessary to change this. In terms of the main message, increased use of community services, both the message and the committee setting are positive. It is also positive that the majority are so clearly expressing the desire to maintain today's parole system, and there are positive opportunities for differentiation in terms of forms of reconciliation. However, with regard to issues related to community service and parole, and insofar as conditional judgment is concerned, much attention has been paid to conditions, supervision and possible response to breaches of conditions. It may be right to have a more effective follow-up and to clarify penalties for breaches of conditions. But it is important to stress that it is central to how conditions are designed, and that it is important to bear in mind that these must be realistic and in some ways not idealistic. The need to have stronger – and I would like to stress very clearly also more flexibly – sanctions for breach of conditions is important in this context. I think it's a point that when you break conditions you don't get into the situation that it becomes either – or. Furthermore, I would like to stress the importance of the transition between reconciliation and release, and the fact that this is so strongly addressed in the message is central and important. Otherwise, I would like to end by saying that when it comes to the issue of electronic surveillance, it is important to be aware that there is no need to be so free of technology that we are dealing here with schemes where we become too extensive in our control.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e734	I think this must be the most long-awaited message in a long time that we've been dealing with here at Stortinget. The work on it started so small already in 1993. The way in which this message has been made – it has been at the external level of those who are going to work with it for a long time before it was finished, and they have made good sense – means that parts of the message are already being implemented in reality. Fortunately, I am saying that, for the time being, the reform and the new elements of this communication are being over-molded. I want to quote a wise and reflective man who has a long experience from inside the prison walls. He says, "It is clear that punishment must follow crime, but it is equally clear that moral and physical must not be neglected and forfeit while incarcerated." He is also particularly concerned with the young, and therefore says: ‘And where behind the walls young boys and pikes are taught in the criminal discipline of older and experienced foxes that tell them what foolishness they did when they were taken and how they are going to go forward next time in order not to be discovered.’ These are quotations that could have been taken straight from the 1990s debate on criminal justice, but it is actually taken from the 20s – from the 1820s! It was legendary Guest Baardsen who said this in 1827. I think it's a cross of thought that the considerations and criticism he had of the system are just as valid 170 years later. In fact, we have less iron in the cells and smaller rats, and there are more food and softer beds, but apart from that, the principle and system are certainly not much changed since the time of Guest Baardsen, except in the last few years. That punishing and keeping those who have done a criminal act should go ahead of rehabilitation, getting them on their legs and making custom arrangements, is exactly the same today as when Guest Baardsen ruled within the walls. The Labour Party has long claimed – for many years – that preventing relapse must be the primary. We know that eight out of ten people who are convicted are previously punished. Putting the bump in here, it's going to save everyone. It will save the individual from suffering, and it will save the police, the judiciary and the criminal services for a lot of work. But it requires a completely different content in the solitude and other reactions. We need custom-made arrangements to get criminals to take responsibility. Then it is uplifting and also alarming that an overall committee fully agrees with that, including the Advance Party. The Workers' Party took up in the 1970s, which was characterised as shockingly radical, is now something of a total staggering nature. The progress party Jan Simonsen has, as usual, done some political schizophrenic exercises here today to try to give another impression. But it says black and white in the position that the Progress Party is also in favour of us having reconciliation plans from day one, reconciliation plans for repatriation to society. The Progress Party is also in favour of shut-off systems and progressive compensation in order to bring about an ever more normal existence until release. All of them — including the Progress Party — are in favour of being able to execute part of the sentence all the way outside prison, despite the fact that there is an unconditional sentence. But this has to be followed up. This reform must now ensure that not only are fine words in a message and in a setting. It has to be followed up with economics. The Committee also points out in several places that this costs. We are in a unique situation with a political consensus on a major reform, while there is idealism out there among those who are to implement it. We shouldn't be agonizing about not adding enough money and people. It must be followed up by competence. New demands are made on officers and what to do. It requires a new education system, and I would like to stress that the Committee has said that the reforms in this area must be carried out in cooperation with employees. Finally, it must also be followed up by capacity expansion, and then I would point out that it was very wise to say that we need a new large prison in Eastfold.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e762	It is not every time I stand on this pulpit that it is easy to be Minister of Justice, but today it is a good day for me. I also believe that it is a good day for all the big business representatives who are involved in criminal policy. In addition, it's a good day for one of our many agencies, the criminal services. It is a milestone in a long and important process when we are now summarizing the discussions on the important topic: ‘How do we want punishment to be implemented?’ I say deliberately not to end, but to sum up. I was happy when, as Minister of Justice, I was able to present a major report on the criminal justice system. It was the first time such a document was created, and it was itself an important milestone. Through the work on the communication, I was confirmed that criminal enforcement policy is not an arena of simple solutions, but an area where values and attitudes are important for policy-making. I believe that by providing such a message, we have made a contribution to avoid an oversimplified criminal policy debate based on vision and little reflection. From this point of view, it is hardly difficult to understand that I am very happy when I can see that in the committee's position there is a broad political consensus on the criminal-political foundation that will apply to the work of the criminal law administration. I am particularly pleased that in the committee position there is a great deal of confusion about the values and principles on which the implementation of penalties is to be based. Both in our country and in other countries, we see that sanctions can take many different forms. We see that it is essential that the exercise of social power must be based on a basis of values, a social view and a human view. Crime has now been made clear to us, and we shall be proud of that. There is also an ongoing consensus and recognition of the view that criminal services must have an objective both of repatriation of individuals to society, of short-term control measures and of the protection of society against crime. It is the balance that provides the best overall social protection. When we accept that the aims of criminal services have embedded contradictions, we must also accept that the department can use instruments that need to balance. The committee setting shows that there is a broad understanding of this. With the criminal care notification, we have helped to make the debate on the instrument more fruitful. We have presented what research and experience shows us, and we have made it clear that political value choices need to be based more strongly on this. I am pleased to note that few people now believe that it is possible to scare people from committing new crimes, and that it is possible to control themselves away from relapse problems. Reducing convicted persons to a potentially crime-free life is about influencing behaviour, and it is now accepted that this must be done by a wide range of different instruments. Attitude processing, aggression testing, everyday exercise, motivation for abstinence, etc. is now subject to criminal policy acceptance. I'm glad. I am also very pleased with the broad political consensus to maintain and further develop the so-called social sanctions. I believe that it is a strength for criminal policy that the courts have a wide range of criminal alternatives in choosing the best criminal response in the specific case. However, social sanctions still need to be further developed in order to become optimally appropriate and credible alternatives to prison sentences. With the follow-up measures to the conditions of community sanctions that are now evident in the notification, I believe we are on the right track. I started by saying that we're at a milestone. Now that the Storting has made clear the criminal-political foundation of criminal law and provided a framework for the organisation of the establishment, we are moving on to the next important stage: to realize all of this. I now return to the Ministry of Justice with clear orders from Stortinget, and we will start immediately. I finish as I started: this is a good day.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e799	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e802	It has underlined the great degree of agreement on what has been presented here today, and especially between the centre parties and the Workers' Party, there is a great deal of coherence. I do not want to go into the different measures, but note that the message itself and the current situation represent a rise in criminal law. I assume that the State Council has no problem confirming this. But then to the actual implementation, which the Council of State was in at the end of its speech. Here I will not take into account the whole spectrum, but what is the situation in the criminal services in prison or prison: In today's situation we have a number of closed departments with a capacity utilisation, I believe, at about. 86 pst. I have reason to believe that there is consistency between today's capacity utilisation and the budgets available. We know that the Government has proposed a further reduction in the number of places, but at the same time estimates that there will be a need for compensation already in 2000. 3100 - 3300 places. I assume that the Council of State does not believe that all this can be resolved within existing budgets, with reorganisations, further use of resources, etc. My question is therefore: What action will the Minister of Justice and the Government take to implement the measures proposed here? And in what way does the Minister of Justice intend to solve the purely resource challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e811	I would like to stress that the criminal welfare report has a time perspective far beyond this year and next year. We imagine that implementation, which involves some major changes in principle – and many minor changes, which are important in themselves – must have a certain time perspective. It's clear that within today's framework, what we can do is limited. But I would be very surprised if, in criminal matters, there were a whole range of — quite a thousand — staff in institutions around this country, there was no potential for better resource use and for improving already in and for good things. We will then come back to the needs of criminal services for each budget. I believe that what is now available provides a basis for us to get started in a good way, and that we should be able to implement it in a certain time perspective – perhaps up to 5-10 years.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e818	While there is a broad consensus in the Committee that we need to reduce the type of care due to waiting queues in front of the courts, there is another type of care that the Committee has wanted to increase its use, and that is particularly in terms of speeding up the arrest of criminal repeaters and having them quickly convicted – what is called the New York model, and which has been tried out in a Norwegian variant both at Nord-Jarlsberg and Nordmøre Politikamre. We know that the repeaters are responsible for a very large part of the crime, and it is therefore very good that the Oslo police have now addressed this challenge and are starting to seize these repetitions quickly, drive them into custody and try to get their cases up to the courts quickly. But I was a little worried when I read in the evening post on 20 October that the prison director of Oslo County Prison says that there is no room for these custody prisoners, and I hope that the Minister of Justice can calm us down and assure us that when the Oslo Police now make such an extra effort to really bring down crime – because this is a type of crime fight that we know works – it should not be in custody places, and that the number of custody places that the Oslo Police here will need will be available in the east or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e825	I share the replicator's view that it is important to get repeaters out of circulation, and that this is fine both in preventive work and in other work. The apparent contradictions that lie in the desire to restrict the use of care, but nevertheless want to use care as a means of re-entry criminals, I see that it is perfectly compatible. My wish – as I have also stated to this extent – is that we must find the necessary practical solutions here, so that we can meet this need. People have to be held in custody quite quickly, and we have to try to find better arrangements, so that we can get a quick criminal procedure and a quick judgment so that we get people out of circulation. It gives an important signal to these difficult clients that we, in a correct word, refer to as repeaters. I'll do my utmost to make use of what's available in capacity, if it's not in Oslo County Prison, so in other institutions, so that we can achieve this common goal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e832	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e836	We are all aware that the development of good leisure and retention measures aimed at children and young people is an important part of preventing crime. Unfortunately, even if such measures are strongly pursued, there will still be some people who are unable to stay away from the criminal career. It is then important that society focusses on comprehensive measures aimed at the period of settlement, and measures aimed at after-sales protection, i.e. the time after-sales settlement. In this way, I am pleased that this message is designed to build on, develop and expand the traditional actions with the emphasis on establishing so-called reconciliation programs. The challenge here needs to be identified in such a good way that they help fight crime and make society safer in the future. In cooperation with different public bodies, the future plan must build around the deployment of its capacity and potential to master its own life situation. However, it is crucial that such programmes also take action that strengthens the post-preservation and post-preservation period. In addition to the social network and the interaction between voluntary organisations and criminal services, it is important to actively focus on measures such as providing them with training. We know that reading and writing problems are more widespread among doms than elsewhere in the population. We also know that reaching 20 pst. has not completed baseball, and that close to 90 pst. lack of further education. For this reason, actions that stimulate education and training will become important measures for rehabilitation. After the working party's opinion, it is of great value to give them an offer that gives the soning a positive content. It has been and is a broad political negotiator to bet on training and prison education. Unfortunately, for the past four years, this has been a major economic downturn, so it has been a real downturn, but submitted to the government budget for next year suggests that there is now a political will on the part of the Government to increase slightly on the path to this area. But the follow-up is still large, and if the Storting wants to invest in and stimulate labour training and education, the work on the budget proposal will clarify whether there is more party than the Labour Party and the Socialist Left which will actively increase the scope of this important objective. It's a paradox that every year the Stortinge says reasonable things about this area and wants to further develop its supply, a number here on Stortinget put themselves on an economic level that actually builds it down. Today, we have a lot of knowledge both nationally and internationally about what is needed to facilitate the finding of a place in society for formerly convicted people. Then it's about making use of this knowledge in a holistic way. This is no new knowledge. All in 1841, the Criminal Commission said the following about this field – quoted from the foko-new 1/97: "... a multitude of prisoners have by their release from prison no sustenance and nothing to feed on." And on the other hand, "If, therefore, the beneficial effects of the treatment in prison should not lose weight, but should remain of Duration, the prisoner should not be left in the critical moment from which he was released. Care for the release of the prisoner and the prevention or prevention of his return to the criminal court thus constituted a necessary condition for the permanent effect of the proceedings in the penitentiary.' Now it is my hope that we will take an active ‘critical moment’, both to save society from excessive spending and to protect individuals from suffering. As you can see, this big message is an important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e863	Many have waited a long time both for the message to be completed and for the drug treatment itself. I now want to address aspects of criminal care that are rarely focused on, namely women and acquittals. Crime is a boy's cause, and it bears both the law and the atoning conditions. Even within the walls, the girls are being discriminated against, and then I think not only that they are being harassed by men, but on the very offer of atonement. The report states that female prisoners do not have an equivalent settlement offer compared to men, but it is not proposed to do so much with it. I urge the Minister of Justice to do that. Women who do not want to son with men must have the opportunity. Women in prison need to be given more attractive and adapted training and employment services. Fortunately, much has happened in recent years, so that only mechanical training or needle and thread work is no longer offered. Visiting conditions, especially at Bredtveit Women's Prison, where I have been visiting myself, are under every criticism. Contact with the family is important during a prison stay, and the situation of children is also not taken care of. The problems are many. Children of prisoners also need good parental contact. It is bad enough that parents stay behind high walls and lock and beat, unless young children are referred to an extremely poor offer regarding the number of visits, visit time and place of association. The Ministry owes it to building and personnel capacity. It can't be accepted. Once it has been established that a separate compensation option for parents with young children is not necessary, it needs to be better organised for this group. It's hard enough to survive a crime-free life after atonement. These girls are entitled to and must be given the opportunity to use prison accommodation to prepare for life after atonement. The girls I met at Bredtveit Women's Prison dreamt of a clean life without a rush and crime, with the opportunity to take care of their children. There are also several non-Norwegian foreigners who have little or no possibility of family contact because of long distances. It easily leads to a more isolated life than necessary. Therefore, at least language training is very important. In the processing of a staggering message, it is often described what you want, and what you should do with it. Without money, it will be no more than wishful thinking. It is a paradox, as the representative Upbeøen Hansen also pointed out, that many politicians are fighting to get crime in the center of newspaper headlines, while there is a general decline in the appropriations for the prison system. Departments are laid down, and the criminals are walking outside the walls. For example: looking at the building mass at Bredtveit or Oslo Circuit Prison, the standard is very bad. Major improvements are needed and the working conditions of those employed by prisons are also involved. I hope that this will be followed up in the next budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e880	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e883	Fighting crime is a social responsibility that requires involvement from different management levels and sectors. This is important, and it is also emphasised by the Ministry of Justice in the message when it concerns the organisation of future management responsibilities. By changing the organisational structure, a basis for decentralisation of tasks and flexible use of resources and personnel will be laid. The fact that several first-time decisions in individual cases are added to the institutions and agencies is good, which in turn will lead to complaints being settled at regional level. The Committee states in its opinion that the creation of the three-level structure may make such a delegation useful, while at the same time imposing greater constraints on the proximity of the decision maker and that decision will apply. By resolving a number of questions at institution or regional level, a more flexible implementation of this new form of settlement will be achieved. This can give results, among other things. a more effective penalty completion. However, the Committee also sees that this may lead to differences in handling and individual legal protection. The Committee asks for a clearer increase in the scope of the proposed delegation, and asks the Ministry of Justice to come back to the Grand Duchy in connection with the issue of changes in promises. It is positive that several administrative bodies are responsible for providing legal services to clients in criminal matters. Cooperation with businesses, employment authorities and employee organisations will make it easier for individuals to enter organised labour supply. Joint responsibility for social services and financial support to be added helps to ensure individual rights in society. The organisation of these services needs to be shaped as soon as possible, and the economic and administrative consequences for the implicated parties should be clarified. Having good criminal care is important for the Labour Party, important for us to have a good and safe society to live in for everyone. Finding a balanced structure that takes care of social conditions and legal security for individuals and society is important, at the same time as we need to adapt criminal services to a modern society that takes care of the proximity around our long-term country.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e894	After hearing the Christian People's Party and others, one can see that there is a lot of genius towards lawbreakers expressed in this debate. Crime is, in the document, much organized for criminals. Drug problems are not adequately addressed in Norwegian prisons with the necessary measures. It is difficult to escape the major drug problems in Norwegian prisons when we have the drug treatment service. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it is time for a much clearer view from the Government and the Ministry of Justice in the fight against drugs. The situation is so serious that the County Council of the Norwegian Fengsels- und Friåmorgsförbund states in clear order that the Ministry of Justice lacks will for offensive thinking. The party of progress believes that it must respond to the requirements of the prison regulations by, inter alia: provide legal support for the re search of all prisoners in prisons in the event of concretely justified suspicions. The establishment of a visitation permit must be notified of the possibility of a visit. Furthermore, it is necessary to provide for a general possibility to require urine samples and a mandatory urine sampling must be introduced for the insertion of prisoners. Penalties practices should be used to a much greater extent and in addition during accrual periods in order to achieve a more preventative effect. Today, drug abuse is in many cases speculated in the last month prior to parole because one assumes that there is no decision on punishment before release. Criminal services need resources to be better able to combat drugs in prisons and should be clearly prominent in the forthcoming budgetary procedure in a few weeks. However, it is gratifying that the Committee gathers to ask the Government to start planning a new prison in Eastfold County, which will serve as a regional prison for the East. This is one of the leaders of the Advance Party in criminal matters and has been so for a long time. When it is estimated that there is a need for around 3,300 prison sites in 2000, it shows that the construction of a new prison needs to be given a high priority. As the report suggests, there is a growing need for settlements in the context of the increase in drug and violence sentences, especially in the eastern region. A new prison is therefore highly required.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e913	After many years of co-judgment, I have often asked myself the question as to whether the penalty imposed for criminal offences seems preventative against new offences. I am therefore pleased that the Criminal Welfare Communication addresses this issue and discusses the instruments that should be used to avoid new crime after release. Penalties shall be implemented in a secure way for society, while at the same time rehabilitating the convicted person to a new and better life. I believe that the execution of penalties based on individual needs and assumptions and on the will of convictions to break down crime, while focusing on the criminal culprit's own responsibility, can help many to move on with a different lifestyle. When you go in order to maintain the external framework for the implementation of penalties, and that there should be tightening within the framework, I think it will be an improvement. I think that because, at the same time, it becomes a strengthening of social sanctions as a credible alternative, it becomes a statutory supervisory programme, and breaches of conditions should lead to a rapid response. Several open prisons, out-of-prison care and the use of community sanctions are important means of implementation. Once the organisational structure has changed, it will give local management greater freedom of action in accordance with centrally defined objectives and frameworks. When the Stortinge has addressed the message today, I hope the Minister of Justice will re-assess the relatively liberal criminal execution in the Western Slidre Labour Colony. Until recently, the system has been based on what in its time was something new that was to be tried so that the transition back to a normal life would be as gentle as possible. Liberal leave rules were an important part of the scheme. These were changed in the summer, which led to conflicts and unrest deep into the community, which sees the institution as a natural and important part of the community. Three former Justice Ministers, Helen Bøsterud, Mona Røkke and Wenche Frogn Selläg, in their time approved this as a trial project. The good results were to indicate that this too will be something to bet on in the future, and I hope the Minister of Justice will look at this in his further work.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e930	First of all, about criminal lavallers. In a situation where children stick each other with a knife at school in Oslo, my suggestion is that you do not reject any proposal initially. I would like to stress that the Right's proposal is that we lower the criminal detainee to 14 years, and that to a large extent we build the criminal reaction on community service and also on conflict councils. I want to remind you that Dan Kalleson of the Children's Guard at the Oslo Police Chamber says: ‘A lowered criminal detainee could contribute to a clearer relationship between child protection and the judiciary.’ Otherwise, this is an important setting. I would first like to thank and congratulate the Minister of Justice for having managed to get this message in place after the governments of the Workers' Party did not have the power to change the Justice Ministers this year. It is therefore relatively free, I think, by Ane Sofie Tömrås, to use this opportunity to pay tribute to the Labour Party's criminal policy from the 1970s to the present. This setting, on which we are very much in agreement, is based on the fact that the Committee has reached an agreement on a direction that is clearly intrusive in relation to the practice that has taken place in the past. I'll stay at a few of the things that have been up for discussion. The implementation of compensation is an important matter. There, the Minister of Justice and I have had a dialogue over time, especially on the basis of an example from Hamar. The attention given to the victim – I think it is left in many parts of the setting – is now given at least as much attention as the consideration given to the perpetrator. And it's seen as outrageous to a lot of the victims that they can hit the perpetrator in a situation where there's actually even a rightful verdict. We come from the Right to follow this practice very carefully, and do not overlook that if this does not get a direction we believe is in the premises here, we will have to get back to the matter in an appropriate form. So to the Progress Party, which has been so lovable to the Right today. Let me first take a little thing: when the representative, Jørn Stag, said in the debate that the Right was at the party of the criminals, he received a reply from Jan Petersen, who said: «This was in itself a factual line until he came to the end, and then the representative revealed himself as sadly ignorant. I'm going to hear about it, I'm sure it's newcomers...» This I thought was loving. For my part, I would leave the last addition. With this, I will be allowed to address the suggestions that have been put forward by the Right and that are in the position.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e951	The representative, Hernæs, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e954	The criminal health notification is about how the punishment is to be carried out, i.e. the attempts of society to protect itself and to rehabilitate the criminal. It's necessary. There have been no great surprises in this debate. However, one aspect stands out: the party's bona fide hammering on the demand for stricter penalties and tougher regimes. Now the representative Simonsen did not respond in a reply earlier today to my announcement of the basis for the belief that rigour and hardness produce the best results. But we see in the written committee setting that the Progress Party is more nuanced than the oral production gives the impression. However, it is not unlikely that the sharp rhetoric will be used to divert attention from important previous contributing causes of crime. It is hardly any other party that is so clearly accomplice in facilitating violence, which the Progress Party is through its alcohol policy. Rus is bred by violence. Therefore, calls for stricter penalties appear to be a disclaimer of responsibility in relation to populist alcohol policy, which in some cases is also continued through the use of drugs. But when that is said, I would like to express my delight in supporting the report of criminal services, which has also come from the parties that are not represented in the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e970	Initially, I would like to express my pleasure at the fact that the representative Opbebøen Hansen expressed the satisfaction that the Government had now made proposals for increased appropriations for criminal care after the Workers' Party had been involved in reductions in this area for several years. The aim of this Communication is to introduce greater flexibility into the response system while at the same time promoting clearer conditions and stronger follow-up to conditions and enhanced supervision. In that context, I think it may be important that we are aware of keeping an order between punishment and non-punishment, in other words, keeping track of how long a person is under the supervision of criminal law, and when he is done with it. Otherwise, I would like to say that an area you might have to look at is the use of isolation, which in some cases has very unfortunate consequences for the individual prisoner. What I would like to say a few words about is the more organisational changes related to the transfer of powers from the courts to the administration and changes in the management system. Through what is proposed in the Communication, it is proposed to transfer the power to re-enter prison from the courts to the administration. It is also a decentralisation of the complaint authority to something that is well on the way that has the character of a newly created body at regional level. In this context, it is important to stress that, in particular, the first, transfer of powers from the Court of Justice to the administration, but also the second, a delegation of the Board of Appeal, imposes very clear requirements on the administrative bodies which are thereby empowered. It is important not only to focus on clear legislation, but also on the competence of these bodies to carry out the tasks they will thus have. In this context, I think that the SV's proposal in relation to the Legal Aid Act has positive elements. Finally, as far as the central administration is concerned, I would like to signal that I will, for my part, be open to a later assessment of the role of the County Council in relation to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e984	I am stunned by the concern and lack of self-belief of representatives of the Christian People's Party when it comes to action against the criminals. I am also stunned by the Workers' Party, which is so afraid that the criminals will not receive legal protection that is a democratic nation worthy of Norway. And I am stunned by the paralysis of action that we see in this room when it comes to combating the growth industry that crime has become. Daily we can look up newspapers and follow up with the media about this. The last look today is that our new countrymen and people who want to get into the Kingdom of Norway are now smuggling heroin into child likes. They buy babies from prostitutes in Germany, kill them and fill them with drugs, travel through Denmark and come to Norway. The government is running a slack policy in this area, and the representative Marthinsen of the Christian People's Party is spending time and energy on shooting at the Progress Party because we have too strict a criminal policy. I am very surprised that a representative of the Christian People's Party does not have the faith on this issue that he otherwise has, namely the belief that it will pay to be law-abiding and to follow the laws and regulations that we have in our state of law. Marthinsen and the Christian People's Party, who talk about us in the Progress Party being only concerned with one thing, and that is punishment, which is otherwise totally wrong, is helping to increase the level of taxes and taxes, which means that the smuggling of alcohol and tobacco has become an industry in Norway that is still reaching new levels. So here, there's a difference between life and learning. We in the Progress Party will take the responsibility that we are aware of when it comes to making concrete proposals to combat crime. And we're looking at the area of social life that what we in the Progress Party are being sent out to in the first phase, it's suddenly going to be good politics. Yes, there will be even such a good policy even on the altar of anti-crime, that the other parties will come to the fore after many years. Therefore, the Progress Party, as Jan Simonsen and Jørn Stag have explained in the position we are discussing today, will not be so concerned in the further work with what political competitors in this Chamber think, but with what Norwegian people need, and what Norwegian people need, is a strong progressive party that can help to make their crime sink in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e993	I will not help to extend this debate unnecessarily, but I will repeat what I said in the introduction, that I am pleased with the broad consensus that the committee position shows in this matter. The reason I asked for the floor was that I wanted to draw the attention of Jørn Stag of the Progress Party to a document sent to the Committee by the Ministry of Justice, which bears the title ‘Actions to combat drugs in prisons’. There is a sub-plan, which is part of the criminal service message, in the sense that it specifically addresses this which was called for just a plan to combat drugs in prisons. It has been sent, and it will be fully possible to get involved on the occasion. Otherwise, I will not try to sum up the debate. I just want to say that the predominantly joyous impression of this debate is the broad consensus we've come up with here, and then I'm going to refrain from characterizing the individual posts.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e1002	The representative, Marthinsen, is trying to use a debate on the criminal services report, on prison services, to launch a general alcohol debate. I don't think this is the right time. We will probably come back to the debate on the alcohol policy and the level of charges that lead to most or least crime in the form of organised crime and alcohol smuggling. When discussing drugs in prison, we need to focus on the major drug problem. In fact, some young prisoners have become drug addicts because of the incarceration in prison. In fact, we also know that there are many Norwegian prisons where homeburning flourishes. The notification does not say anything about these completely precarious problems, but the Stortinget has been given a sub-plan on the drug problem in prison, which will be addressed in the context of the State budget. In fact, these problems can only be solved through measures that would have to be uncomfortable for the prisoners and for those who are going to visit prisoners, who would have to be subjected to a more nine-time body control. I hope that the Christian People's Party will join the Advancement Party in following up with more effective measures to stop drug and alcohol abuse within prison walls.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e1011	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e1025	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 283.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e1033	It is then to be voted on on on today's map. Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e1042	In the course of the debate, 16 proposals have been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Jan Simonsen on behalf of the Advancement Party and the Right. That is the proposal No. 2-9, by Jan Simonsen on behalf of the Progress Party. That is the proposal No. 10-13, from Bjørn Hernæs on behalf of the Right. Finally, it is the proposals No. 14-16, from Ågot Valle on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Mr Vidar Bjørnstad has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e1055	I would urge the representatives of the Labour Party to vote in favour of the committee's position on all points and against the proposals of the Right and the Advance Party. As regards the SV proposals, which are distributed here, we will vote against proposal No. 14, because the Committee has discussed this and has opposed the reality of the proposal in its position. As regards proposal No: 15, we recommend that this be transmitted to the Government without a trial. In the Committee we have previously asked for a big message about the legal aid arrangements and can then get the Government's views on this without taking a stand on the reality today. As regards proposal No: 16, I would also ask SV to send it without a trial. In the context of today's vote, we have asked for a proposal relating to the decision-making structure of the criminal care system after the introduction of regional leadership for both the prison system and criminal justice in freedom, and there is nothing to prevent the Government from giving its views on the reality without taking a stand here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e1060	With regard to the proposals in the vote, I would recommend that the Honourable Members vote in favour of proposals which we ourselves promote – either alone or together with the Progress Party – and for all the Committee's majority proposals. In the case of proposals distributed from SV on its own sheet, I would recommend the Right Members to vote against all three proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e1065	I can limit my explanation of vote to saying that we support what the Labour Party has expressed here. In other words, we recommend that the central parties vote in favour of the Committee's position and vote against the proposals of the Right and the Advance Party. With regard to proposals Nos. 14-16, we are voting against proposal No. 14, and if the other two are turned into transmission proposals, there is nothing more to do about it. If they are not converted into transmission proposals, we recommend that the centre parties vote against, even if we can have some understanding of them, and when the last one might have to come back to Stortinget at a later stage, we will take a positive look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e1070	First of all, our own proposals: the Committee has made a different choice with regard to the view on open reconciliation than what we are doing, so I agree that that proposal should be voted on. I of course recommend that SV's group vote in favour. With regard to proposals Nos. 15 and 16, I also agree that this has a greater chance in a different context, and that it is part of further treatment, both in terms of the decision-making structure of the criminal justice system, and in terms of a call for legal aid. I would ask that these be converted into transmission proposals. With regard to the other proposals, I suggest that the members of the SV vote in favour of the Committee's recommendation – except VI, which we must vote against – and otherwise against the proposals of the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e1079	I would recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists vote against the proposals from the SV, against proposal No. 13, from the Right, and towards V in the setting, which is about home soning under electronic control, which we only support on our own premises.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e1084	Several have not asked for the floor for an explanation of vote, and we are going to vote. Proposals Nos. 15 and 16, from the Socialist Left Party, is converted by Ågot Valle into a transmission proposal, and the wording is changed accordingly. Proposal No. 15 sounds in modified form: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit proposals to amend the Law on Legal Aid to include cases relating to the enforcement of penalties.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds in modified form: ‘The Government is recommended to draw up proposals for the establishment of a central independent appeal body.’ The President proposes that the proposals be submitted to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Socialist Left Party's proposals are the first to be voted on, then on the proposals from the Party of Advancement, then on the proposals from the Right, then on the proposal from the Party of Advancement and the Right, and finally on the vote. Proposal No. 14, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate the possibility of introducing the scheme practised in Denmark and Sweden for housing in an open-ended establishment.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e1114	Proposals Nos. 2-9, from the Progress Party, taken up for voting. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a law ensuring that the settlement of penalties begins immediately after a judgment is enforceable.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to make the necessary legislative proposals in order to provide a legal basis for the imposition of significant additional penalties on prisoners who escape prison either by leaving prison or by failing to return to a fixed period of leave.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to remove the access to release prisoners on trial before the sentence is complete.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The cancellation requests the Government to establish a system of a fixed period of supervision of at least 3 months for prisoners who have served more than 1 month in prison.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘A state treatment institution of a similar nature is being built for the treatment of persons sentenced to psychiatric treatment because of criminal inviolability rather than imprisonment and for prisoners who become psychotic while in prison.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the guidelines on the use of community services so that community services can only be used as an alternative to conditional judges, and never for criminal repeaters, or for those convicted of violence, moral crime or drug crime.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to set up a test scheme with house arrest/home soning, controlled by electronic devices, as an alternative to conditional punishment.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to introduce guidelines to ensure that any breach of the conditions of social sanctions automatically leads to settlement in a closed institution.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e1166	Proposals Nos. 10, 11 and 12, from the right, is taken up for voting. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a law ensuring that the settlement of penalties begins immediately after a judgment is enforceable.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to promote the necessary regulatory changes in order to ensure that the general rule is that penalties should be fully imposed and that probation after 2/3 time is used only as a pass in special cases.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the guidelines for the use of social services so that social services are mainly used as an alternative for first-time or conditional judges, and never for persons convicted of violent or moral crime.’ The Progress Party has announced that they support these proposals in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e1194	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 13 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The ruling asks the Government to set up an experimental system of home soning under electronic control, mainly limited to first time convictions not convicted of violent or moral crime.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e1209	Proposal No. 1, from the Advancement Party and the Right, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the establishment of its own prison departments/prisons for foreign nationals to be expelled after the end of their term of office.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e1257	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e1274	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-22.ana.ud940e1318	There is no record.
