ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-16.ana.ud576e25	The representatives Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, Grethe Fossli, Leif Lund, Ivar Kristiansen and Gunn Karin Gjul, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. They called for alternates, for Vest-Agder County Sigmund Kroslid and for Akershu County André Kukkestad, have taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-16.ana.ud576e60	Both President and co-representatives can argue that there will be no major and violent debate on this issue. I just want to link some comments to the study that the Riksrevision has done on housing support for families with children. Thus, housing aid was converted in 1997 and administratively coordinated under the Ministry of Social and Health. This means that the scheme is relatively new and changed, and that there is a basis for going through it and seeing if it works in line with the intentions. A study has therefore been carried out among 334 families with children on the proper functioning of the housing support scheme. The main emphasis of the Committee, which has been emphasised by the National Audit Office, is that among families with two incomes, many fall below the income limit for housing aid but do not receive housing support. The main reason for this is the delimitation of housing contained in the legislation, which means that if one has fully financed a dwelling in private credit institutions and not in the House Bank, or if one, for example. live in a housing law law and the housing law refinances from the House Bank to a private credit institution, it is excluded from the scheme. It is primarily this that has been the subject on which the Committee has been focused when considering the matter. The Committee asks that the Ministry should take a close look at the design of the housing aid scheme so that one can obtain some of the families of children who, on the basis of income targets, should be included in the scheme but are nevertheless excluded. It is a unanimous committee asking that this be assessed at the delimitation of housing, which I mentioned earlier, but also that housing support by owner-occupancy is widely assessed, that attention should be paid to the possibility of improving housing standards while housing is supported, and that the security of income losses should also be ensured. The Committee has requested that this be assessed in the context of the annual budgetary proposals and that consideration be given to the future work on the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-16.ana.ud576e71	I would like to start by stressing that I think it is useful that the National Audit Office chose to review housing support for families with children as one of the first projects for its new management audit. As a municipal minister – because the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is responsible for coordinating housing support – I have been committed to further developing the country’s housing support for families with children. Norway spends less money on housing for families with children than other Nordic and Western European countries. In recent years, attention has been focused on improving housing support for pensioners and social-securityed people, among others. through the coordination of national housing aid schemes. Municipal housing support schemes are also mainly aimed at pensioners and social workers. The National Audit Office confirms that the allocation of housing aid for families with children is concentrated on those families with the lowest income and the most vulnerable, namely the single-parent family. With the low incomes, very few families with children with two adults are so disadvantaged that they receive housing support. As the Riksrevision points out, we should reach a lot more families with children who are struggling with low incomes in relation to the cost of the nocturnal dwelling. I can therefore promise that the Ministry will follow up the request of the Control Committee to pay particular attention to this matter in the future. The government has already proposed in the 1999 state budget improvements in legislation to allow more families with children with two adults and a very weak economy to receive housing support. We will also follow up on the gradual phasing-out of housing aid depending on the source of funding, in line with the National Audit Office's instructions. Here too, I can show that the Government is already on track when the 1999 State budget proposes to abolish dependence on the source of funding in the case of rental dwellings. The National Audit Office's report is a good guide for further extensions and improvements to the housing support system, and I am pleased that a unanimous control committee is following up the Riksrevision's comments. At the same time, improvements and extensions cost money. It is therefore important to consider the possibilities for better distribution and exploitation of the appropriations at all times. The report shows that the money currently spent on housing for families with children is very good. One redistributive measure pointed out is that there is a lack of procedures for shortening housing aid in case of increases in income after two years of the equation. This is going to be done with something. In the Ministry's cooperation and dialogue with the National Audit Office during the preparation of the report, there was a discussion on the concept of housing. What should be crucial is that housing support actually works today so that a family of children who have to take on poor and unworthy living conditions because they cannot afford anything more, just sees themselves able to buy or rent a satisfactory, sober housing in the assurance that the family will also receive housing support. This is the main reason why many new families come into the scheme each year. I agree with the Riksrevision that the need for further improvements to the housing standard can also be notified after this initial acquisition, but I believe that it has, after all, a lower priority. The Monitoring Committee shall take the opportunity to request the review of municipal housing aid schemes by the Ministry. I can inform you that this review will be included in the announced growth report of the Husbank's business, which is now presented at the end of this month. Finally, a small cross of thought: In the government's work on the biggest news of living conditions, we are working on a wide range of material about the Norwegian households that have the worst advice and labor the most, including poor housing conditions. There's too much distance between these and the majority of us who have it consistently good, not least in terms of housing. Many of the most difficult jobs are youth lonely, and unfortunately we find the more homeless. Unlike most other countries with which we should be able to compare, in Norway housing aid is granted only to the extent that they have social security income. Consequently, those who are disadvantaged who are not caught by the social security system are not caught by the housing aid either, only as a reminder that there are major challenges in the further development of the State housing support system. In addition, let me mention the need for housing support as a result of social care being increasingly oriented towards a caregiver living in his or her own home and to a lesser extent at home or at home with relatives, whether those with mental retardation, caring elderly people, people with mental disorders, drug problems, etc. It seems clear that state housing is necessary to achieve our welfare policy, living conditions and social policy objectives. Then I also think about perhaps the most important thing about having a state housing support scheme, namely that it is predictable, predictable and stable over time. The National Audit Office's report is a good contribution to this further development, and I will do my utmost to follow up the unanimous comments made by the Control Committee on the report.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-16.ana.ud576e86	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-16.ana.ud576e94	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-16.ana.ud576e115	There is no record.
