ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e26	We will continue in the debate on the 3th Framework Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e29	Over the next 26 years, the party of progress has often been called a anti-cultural party, with a cultural policy that was laughed at and flabbergasted by. It has also irritated many ugly words and remarks that have hurt. Something might be deserved, but over the years the Progress Party has shown that we take the matter seriously, and we have gradually reaped praise for it. It is true that the Progress Party for 1999 will also reduce the number of crowns for culture. Instead of as proposed in St.prp. No 1 with Appendix No 4 to give NOK 3 467 717 000 to the culture, the Progress Party will spend the entire amount of NOK 2 531 208 000. This is done by the Progress Party with a good conscience, as we take the savings and use them at the same time. the health and social sector, where we believe they can make a better use of the situation today. When you look at where the Progress Party reduces most, you see that the Progress Party is left with funds where we think they will reach the maximum possible. The promotion party wants, inter alia: by means of its draft budget, to remove production aid for the newspapers by NOK 194 700 000. When you think back to last year, you will remember that the Labour Party and the Right also reduced this position when they were put by a majority in the Committee. This year, the centre parties, the Advance Party and the Right are reducing. What I want to do with this is to show that those parties can also be involved in a reduction. Although their reduction is significantly smaller, the principle is there. Having said this, I would like to point out that the Progress Party will retain some funds on this chapter – Chapter 335 – for Applied Media Research and Retraining, Contributions to Various Publications and Distribution Grants to the newspapers in Finnmark. This is because the Progress Party is positive to newspapers and their work. With regard to the ratio of newspapers to VAT, I am not going to go into this in detail here. It is also important and proper to look at who is receiving support and how much the individual newspapers receive. The Newspaper Newspaper, Bergensavisen, Our Country, Nations, Rogaland Newspaper, The Day, The Future, the Financial Newspaper and the Class struggle run off alone with 122 562 862 kroner, and this is only for nine newspapers. Conclusion: The party wants a free and independent press, which does not base its life on the support given by the state. Freedom of expression is not and shall not depend on the number of crowns in support. Another major post The Progress Party wants to remove is NOK 65 000 000 for the Marking of the Millennial Change, for the year 1999. The progress party seems to spend so much of the taxpayers' money for this, is completely wrong. Fortunately, the word fireworks has been removed, but nevertheless. This principle also applies to the funds intended to be used in the future towards 2005. It is lured, inter alia, by: that it is to be built, restored or similar in so-called thousand-year-olds scattered around the country, but the Progress Party is afraid that these sites may gradually become large expenditure posts for individual counties and municipalities. Otherwise, the Progress Party will reduce financial resources for artists' scholarships and designate them as young artists as possible. With regard to guarantee income, we will remove it in its entirety, namely NOK 71 563,000, as artists should and must be able to produce something they can live on, and as society in addition to demand. Those who disagree with this will probably say that then you don't get the diversity and the width. The progress party does not agree with this, and is willing to take this chance. Posten Filmproduktion med. the Progress Party wishes to reduce by SEK 70 000 000, as we cannot see that it is the task of the State, the task of taxpayers, to provide financial support for popular and entertainment films. Such industries should be as self-financing as far as possible. In addition, the Progress Party says that the remaining funds should be allocated to actions where children and young people and special social interests are to be met. When you look back at some films that have received a lot of state aid and that have only had a few spectators, you might wonder if this is the right use of funds, as the other parties claim. The last major cost cut at the Progress Party is for theatre and opera purposes, where the Progress Party believes it can be significantly reduced. It is known that the tickets are subsidized a lot, and this is wrong in the opinion of the Progress Party. Well-established people should pay for their experiences to a greater extent than now. When I look at what is left of state support for culture in Norway for 1999, there is a lot, and especially when, as the Progress Party believes, more money in the cultural sector does not necessarily have to mean more and better culture. The most important thing is how and to whom the funds come, and how they are disposed of. The party of progress is of the opinion that the concept of culture is large and diverse and that our interests are of a very different nature. This is good, and it shows that the state, with its transfers of funds, should not govern this. What seems to be positive for one might even be vulgar for the other. The dividing line in Norwegian cultural policy must not be that it is public support that determines what survives. Humans' own views and choices must be determined. The concept of culture can be purely personal or general. Culture must be popular, so that the people's perception of culture can guide cultural policy and cultural development in Norway. We have to be open to the new, but at the same time take care of and also process the cultural heritage we have. Norway should not imitate the culture of other countries, as we have so much to care for and which distinguishes Norway as a country and a cultural nation. It is impossible, in the view of the Progress Party, to grant a fair distribution of State aid to culture. It is also unrealistic to believe that the public cultural effort could give everyone the same amount in the sense that everyone should have their fair share. Therefore, there is in reality no guarantee that ‘culture bureaucrats’ make the right choices on behalf of the individual. The Progress Party believes that the individual can take care of, renew and further develop common cultural values. Is it to subsidise an opera ticket better or more valuable than to subsidise a ticket to, for example: a rock concert? With its tax reductions, the Progress Party provides each individual with the option of choosing the cultural services to which they wish to make use of. When you read statistics on the cultural services used by the Nordics, it shows a trend that is quite similar to the priorities of the Advance Party. Cinema, sport, museum and library are the most popular. Up to 60 pst. use these offers individually, only 6 pst. of the opera offer. It also says that three out of five Nordics have never been to the opera or the opera. The statistics also show that large consumers of cultural services are children and young people. Over 90 pst. of young people who have been in cinema in the last year. The first half of the 20 years have been in cinema on average over ten times in 1997. The statistics also tell us that revisions, especially local ones, are more visited than institutional theatres. In the case of revisions etc., the Progress Party will build up and support the local and voluntary effort, which is so much of it out there among people. With cultural economic help together with hard work, we will be able to multiply the cultural impact, and then we are concerned with the essentials of the Cultural Policy of the Advancement Party. The party of progress has more faith in broad culture than so-called fine culture. Engaging people culturally does not necessarily mean large transfers of money. If all sports, Scout, 4H, school music etc. If part of the work had been done with all the lotteries and cake bazaars in order to get the ends to meet and, instead, to do more targeted work, Norway would have an even richer cultural life and would be able to engage even more with its offers. There is a spirit of virtue in the Norwegian people that many can envy us. But we must be careful not to make the knit too long. Then we can lose the fires, and very much can be lost. And when it is said: we also need to have a more flexible and unbureaucratic application and verification procedure of less amount. It may be difficult for the small sport team to have a correct filled-in application at the right time in order to get badly needed crowns they may be entitled to. Norwegian composers and practitioners who work in the popular genres have traditionally had little influence on how state and private funds distribute the funds over them. This has been the tradition of all funds and state schemes that do not stem from rocking. When you look at how the funds that these funds distribute are spent, this is from radio playback, sales of cassettes, video cassettes, CDs, music played in cafes, discotheques, restaurants, digital transmission, etc. It is undeniable that there is music from popular genres that has the greatest degree of exploitation and dissemination, whether copying or gambling in public media. This means that practitioners and composers earn money that they have no influence over, and that is widely distributed to completely different parts of cultural life. It's up to any person to decide what you choose to spend their money on. This is also about giving popular practitioners and composers better control over their own lives and everyday lives. To the extent that it is measurable, an effort should be made to ensure that the exerciser or composer used is allocated the funds individually. This was essentially what we can say about the Cultural Policy of the Advancement Party in a relatively short time. What you can draw from this is: Yes, the Progress Party will take a few crowns from the cultural side in relation to the proposals of the other parties and transfer them to other disciplines where the Progress Party sees a shrieking need for funds, but the Advance Party does not want any less culture than the others, rather perhaps the opposite. What's the big difference is what and to whom the Progress Party wants to designate the transfers. Here, I would like to reiterate that the funds should as far as possible meet children, young people, the elderly and others with a special need, while the well-established must pay as much as possible for their own experiences. The party wants to benefit from a broad culture rather than so-called a fine culture. Maybe this will also help maintain the settlement in the districts, and we get a double effect. That culture is important also at the Progress Party, there should therefore be no doubt about it, but we want a culture as free from political governance as possible. This would give us a rich cultural flora, which will be able to embrace most of us at a reasonable amount.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e75	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e78	The representative of Bredvold said that culture was important for the Progress Party, and that he had spent quite a short time explaining what the Progress Party's policy was. I do not think I agree that the view of the Progress Party is that culture is important. At least they don't bet money that shows it's essential. But the representative Bredvold also had a bet area. It was in relation to broad culture. And he would signal little bit of money to fine culture. I want to hear what Bredvold thinks is the difference between broad culture and fine culture. So another question that's a little bit open. The Labour Party has signaled very strongly that we want to have a sports debate in the budget debate on culture. The party of progress has not indicated their relationship to sport. And my question to Bredvold is, what does the Progress Party really want with its sports policy? Is it so important that they want it on the State budget, so that the Storting will have the opportunity to discuss sports policy? Or is this something that they think the ministry and sports organizations themselves should do? I think it is important that the Progress Party here gives a signal as to what they mean by sports policy. After all, it's $1.7 million. members of the Norwegian Sports Association. It is an important cultural group that also needs big business politicians to care about them.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e87	I thought I expressed myself quite clearly, but I could try to repeat. The difference between broad culture and fine culture can be seen, among other things. see the percentage visit. I mentioned museums, and I mentioned libraries, various cinema events, etc., which were visited by up to 60 p.m. That's what I'd call a broad culture. When a youth uses a cinema up to ten times in a year, it has to be a broad culture. But when we see that three out of five Nordics have never been to an opera or opera, I think it's a fine culture. That's how we can keep reading statistics. That such statistics may differ from part of the country to part of the country is correct. But in large terms, it's like this. When it comes to sports, it's something that interests them all, most of us in one way or another. Either we've been with ourselves, or we've been spectators. Sport is also important in the cultural policy of the Progress Party. The principle of Norwegian Tipping means, we can agree – that it is the third that has been before, and that sport gets its third. The Progress Party will continue to support Norwegian sport.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e96	It is difficult to know which words to use to describe the cultural policy of the Progress Party. Main Kutter Promskrittspartet over 900 mill. kr. That's what the representative, Mr. Bredvold, calls ‘taking a few dollars’ from the cultural budget. It's kind of inviolate, because it kind of doesn't affect anyone else as it's made. But if this were to be decided in the Storting, it would mean that very many of the cultural institutions around the country would disappear. In a way, it is real to have this view, and I would like to say nevertheless, admirable and commendable, that the representatives of Sandberg and Bredvold in the Committee have acted as responsibly and tidy as they have done now in the harvest when they have entered into a budgetary settlement. I'm going to use this line to ask a question to the representative of Bredvold. I have the impression that Henie Onstad Kunstsenter on Hövikodden is an institution that stands close to the heart of the Advance Party, and I understand that, because it's a great institution. However, in a note, the Progress Party asks the Ministry to: «Assess a functional distribution between the Museum of Contemporary Art and Henie Onstad Art Centre»; and let the latter be responsible for the dissemination of international art. The question is, what does the Progress Party want to achieve by such a functional distribution? Does this mean that the Museum of Contemporary Art will only focus on Norwegian art, and that Henie Onstad Kunstsenter will take care of the international?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e108	Although the Progress Party is reducing the cultural budget, we still have over DKK 2.5 billion, so there are quite a lot of resources that the Progress Party wants to spend on culture. I'll be allowed to thank you for the praiseworthy words. We in the Progress Party are trying as best we can, to conduct a serious and proper cultural debate, just as in all other disciplines – so that's what they say. With regard to the specific issue and Henie Onstad Art Centre, there is a rather difficult question about how the functional distribution should be between contemporary art and other art. What is the difference between last year and this year in the case of Henie Onstad Kunstsenter, is that last year we were a little clung to it, this year we're positive, and we're going to be involved and develop it further. And then we'll look at and evaluate how the distribution is going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e117	The party of progress and the representative of Bredvold have been accused of being a culturally hostile party, said Bredvold himself in his contribution. He has been hurt by remarks about this. I won't try to hurt Bredvold in my line, but I appreciate the commitment that the Progress Party shows in the Culture Committee, in the work we do there. One thing is that the Progress Party almost shaves the budget when they present their primary proposals. But now I have had the pleasure of working with Bredvold and the Progress Party on the distribution of the funds that we were to redispatch. The joy that shined out of the eyes of the representatives of the Progress Party about being able to re-dispose, really put a thought in me, namely that the Progress Party really seems to be having fun being involved in cultural appropriations for good action. It is the view of the Progress Party that it is the broad culture to be supported, not the fine culture. I wonder if the representative Bredvold sees that it is the innovation of culture, i.e. culture that does not reach the broad masses, which is often the basis of what later becomes a broad culture, and which thus falls within the definition of what should be supported by Bredvold. Finally, I have a question for Bredvold regarding a long and twisted remark about Norwegian rock, which the Progress Party has gone into with the Workers' Party and SV, and which turns out that a lot of people are responding to. For example, Norwegian Rockebund is afraid of losing its operating support. Tour, festival and transport support can be lost, and most of it will go to what is called the Norwegian network. I wonder if Bredvold could explain to me how the Norwegian network is going to take care of the coat, and how it will benefit the broad masses by building up a new bureaucracy through the Norwegian network.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e128	The Norwegian network has been such that there have been a number of artists who have participated in and subsidized other artists. Obviously, these aren't satisfied with just getting a small part of the financial support or having a small share of it. So that's what the Norwegian network is now going to do to a great extent to help, so that whoever's been in and out of it is going to get something back. I guess that's almost what I can say about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e133	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e137	I would first like to take the opportunity to correct an error in the recommendation for Framework 3 decisions. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a mistake in setting the recommendation for a decision for C. The correct commitment amount under paragraph 1 shall be up to 41,8 million. kr. The attitude of the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administration shows that, with some exceptions, the Government has been able to endorse the main priorities of its proposal for a cultural budget. The most noticeable changes to the Government's original proposal came as a result of the negotiated budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Right and the Advance Party. This agreement resulted in two significant cuts of 10 million, respectively. kr in the allocation for the thousand-year change mark and a reduction of 35 million. kr in the production aid for newspapers. The same parties have also co-existed in the Committee on Further Priorities within the adopted budgetary framework. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Progress Party, as I have already done, and to the representatives of the Right to have shown accountability and rigour in the negotiations that have taken place. The repriorities carried out within a framework of 8 million. kr, will also provide an important incentive for those enterprises which receive additional funding for their work. This redistribution led to a number of activities and actions, including several museums, such as the Norwegian Architecture Museum, the Norwegian Forest Museum and the Falstad Museum. Furthermore, there was an important contribution to the purchase of Norwegian quality phonograms and art to the National Gallery, the support of the group The Brazz Brothers and the Rikskonsertes school concert activities, to name a few. I am also pleased that a broad majority of the committee, consisting of all parties with the exception of the Workers' Party, went in to give the Olav party days node status and thereby ensure the further operation of this festival, after the Rikskonserten, who managed the festival support, had announced that the Olav party days would be cut off their support amount by approx. two thirds due to a more stringent practice of the award criteria. The Olav Festival days are not a purely music festival, but a broad musical and cultural model linked to the Nidaro Cathedral, and the majority therefore found reason to take it out of the festival pot and continue the amount of support at the same level as it has had in recent years. Unfortunately, cultural policy often becomes a struggle for money. Now it's never so that money can accomplish everything. A great deal of creativity and creative cultural activity is being developed on a voluntary basis without costing society a great deal in dollars and cents. These are the many free groups of artists and not least the countless voluntary teams and organisations good examples of them. Where there is desire, motivation and idealism, there is culture created by small means. But from there it's a long way to say that we don't need cultural institutions that are fully funded by the public. Ideally, we would have contributed more resources to far more than we can do, but I think most people admit that in today's economic reality it's little to go on. The government's starting point in this state budget has been to tighten up the economy. Therefore, there is a deliberate choice behind when the Government wants to prioritise a continuation this year and to some extent a strengthening of the operating base of the existing institutions rather than investment and investment in new areas. There are also important incentives in view of the cultural expansion that is taking place outside the institutions. There is no denying that many cultural institutions are struggling with very tight budgetary frameworks. In particular, this applies to the museums. It is therefore gratifying that both government and big business are now engaged in strengthening the museum sector. In this budget, it's set at 10 million. kr extra to this area. At the same time, there are expectations that the museum's situation will be thoroughly analysed and reviewed during the work on the announced programming message on archive, library and museum policy. A special responsibility lies with the Government of the national institutions where the State is responsible for the entire operating grant. In the next year's budget, both national orchestras, theatres and the Norwegian Opera have received significant increases in operating grants to strengthen the artistic activities of their institutions. It is also gratifying to note that the interest in opera seems to be increasing in Norway. This is reflected by increased influx to the Norwegian Opera in Oslo, but also by the setting up of operas and music theaters in a number of other places in the country both at the district operas and in a number of major cities. The Christian People's Party will greatly regret that it failed to make a positive decision in the Stortinget in the previous session on the construction of a new opera. However, growing opera interest should be a sign in the time that the Storting will re-present itself as the opera act will gather around a locational option for a new national opera, and that at the same time steps are being taken to establish a model for the opera movement elsewhere in the country. One fact that the Storting has to deal with is that the millennial shift is moving ever closer. In order for this to become something more than a regular New Year's celebration, it has been added to a large-scale cultural label throughout the country. In the proposition, the government described the millennium after Christ’s birth as a “crossroads – between the epochs we have behind us and a new thousand years”. The State part of the marking consists of three main elements. The thousand-year-old place in the counties, the thousand-year-old place in the municipalities and the projects and events to be carried out under the direction of the organisers’ company Twentieth Year-Change – Norway 2000 AS, where the Church’s marking is also included. The markings are intended to contribute to creating something of lasting value, and which at the same time has roots in our history. It's about taking care of culture and memories, of traditions and experiences, religious and social, and bringing them on to future generations. The mark of the Millennium will help remind us as people of the legacy of our mothers and fathers and provide us with the necessary foundations to meet challenges in an uncertain future. We record that the design has started well both within the organisers' company and in the many municipalities and county municipalities when it comes to collecting current proposals for thousands of years. In addition to this, the marking of the millennium change in Norway is also added to an additional dimension through cooperation with both ‘Oslo by 1000 years’ and Kulturby Bergen 2000, both of which are significant cultural events linked to the country’s two largest cities. There has been criticism from the representatives of the Workers' Party in the Committee against the fact that the majority of the Storting has reduced the overall framework for the Millennium Marking by 10 million. kr, and that the allocation of the thousand-year mark-up has led to a reduction in other parts of the cultural budget. The Labour Party is entitled to reduce the allocation of the thousand-year mark compared to the original plans in both the submitted budget and the budgetary agreement with the Right and the Advance Party. But it is completely wrong when the Workers' Party claims that the allocation of the Millennium Marking has led to a reduction in other parts of the cultural budget. No, it's not the appropriations for the thousand-year markings that have led to cuts. It's the opposite of the tightening up of the economy, which I also thought the Workers' Party understood. But there's also been a reduction in these appropriations, and it's just been done to protect other cultural purposes. I therefore refer to the Council of State letter of 4 December 1998, which states that ‘even after the budgetary conciliation, the growth of the cultural budget from 1998 to 1999 — without the provision for the thousand-year mark-up — is about the same size as the general growth of the expenditure of the State budget’. The greatest reduction in the Ministry of Culture's framework area is the reduction in production aid for the newspapers. This is cut by an important aid scheme which the centre parties initially did not want. The aim of press support has always been to ensure the spread of the free word, to maintain freedom of expression and diversity and to maintain a high level of newspaper consumption in our country. And the press support system has worked well in this direction until today. Once the cut has been made, the aim must be to set up the scheme in the short term so that as many newspapers as possible can be maintained and the objective of diversity and freedom of expression achieved. In the longer term, however, it will be necessary to carry out a comprehensive review of the framework conditions of the press with a view to achieving greater predictability and stability. It is also necessary to look at the framework conditions of the press in the light of developments in the entire media sector, not least in view of the merger that is currently taking place by various media, by eradicating the boundaries between them. In the newspaper sector, we have long seen a trend towards greater independence from political parties. At the same time, the papers have become good investment objects for strong media sponsors. Also within cultural policy it is enough that a truth is a truth until it is no longer. It may therefore be that the time has come to think again and find new grips to ensure the values we want to characterize the media reality in the future. For this reason, the Centre Parties, together with the Advance Party and the Right, have submitted proposals for the establishment of a public body to carry out a comprehensive review of the framework conditions of the press. Media policy covers more than the framework conditions of the press. The media play an increasingly important role in cultural policy and are increasingly influencing the use of our time. The media influence us and control us more and more both for good and for evil. Not least in order to meet the strong commercialisation and internationalisation in this area, it is necessary to ensure good and stable framework conditions for public broadcasting. This will also be necessary to ensure Norwegian-language offers while maintaining cultural diversity. A happy move in Norwegian cultural life is the advancement of Norwegian film production. Both outdoors and at home, Norwegian films have aroused increased recognition. In this context, state aid for film is an important instrument. It should preferably be characterised as a luxury problem that some Norwegian-produced films gather so large an audience that they leave farms with most of the film support, so that it gets less back to new productions the following year. The Labour Party has put forward proposals to provide additional support in 1999 for new film productions. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we did not want to decide whether additional measures are needed right now, but we will consider this as we get a more comprehensive overview of developments. The government is now under an obligation to assess additional appropriations in the context of the revised national budget, and we do not ignore the fact that it may be necessary to come back to this in the spring. I will, on behalf of my own party, the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Central Party, address the proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e175	Ola T. Loans have taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e180	I want to address the division of functions and how important it is for district policy. In this setting of the budget, we have noticed that the majority have gone in to get the feast days to a node. The representative of Ola T. Loan has been credited for this. My question is, what about the conscience? Here, for example, South Trundellag, at Trondheim, has between 60 and 70 million crowns of state culture, and now they're going to get even more at the Olav Festival. In the nation it was written on December 12: ‘Southern Tree Teams have also been blessed with a new node, the Olav Festival Days. So far, the Olav Festival days have been the most marked by the fact that the owners have failed to agree on the artistic content of the festival, and the quality level has been so low that the festival was in danger of losing part of the state grant to next year. Now it's saved, and as a hub it's supposed to be an artistic centre of competence for the whole region. Then you'll just have to hope that the Greatness gives status, and you'll also get a most intrusive sense." This isn't my quality assessment, it'll be on the journalist's account. What I could also mention is that the award selection for the festivals went off yesterday on the basis of the review that has taken place from Stortinget's side here. The Labour Party found this so serious that we have put forward a proposal that the Government should consider the establishment of other national sub- and focal points institutions around the other counties. How is it with the conscience of the representative Ola T. Borrowing in relation to attracting all the funds to the South-Tronde Team, and taking credit for it? What about the conscience in relation to the functional distribution and quality of the feast days? And how will he address the proposal of the Workers' Party to ensure a real distribution?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e196	How's my conscience? My conscience is relatively up, to use a popular expression. I am sincerely very pleased that a broad majority, all the parties in the committee except for the party of the representative Fossum, have participated in and given the Olav Festival days the status of a node institution. I will not go into a quality assessment. It was not in the hands of the representative Fossum, nor is it in the hands of me. I can't give it to you. It'll be on the journalist's account. What's clear is that the Olav party days have had a development. I think there's a consensus that this festival has grown very much up to what we've seen in the last year. It's been through crises, but it's come up upstairs, and today it's very poignant as a broad, church-style cultural model linked to Nidarosdom, but with a must-see of the whole cultural and music life of the city. After all, this is all the country's third largest city we're talking about. So in the case of conscience – if you compare with other cities that have also attracted support, to use the representative Fossum's expression, I'm not sure if Trondheim will come out any better. I would like to be involved and look at a better distribution. I don't think it's a problem to look at it. Then we had to take with us the whole cultural life and look at many aspects of it, not only node institutions within music, but also in different areas like for example. the museum sector. I think we might have seen a rather complex picture. I do not approve of the presentation made by the representative Fossum. On the contrary, I would say that a city or a district maintains a large amount of state support is a sign that something has happened there – it has been a development, it has been activity, and this has somehow been rewarded. But whether that should always be so, or whether it should take steps to look at the whole of this, I'll be the first to sign that we should consider.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e205	I must first be allowed to say that I think it becomes a bit parochial when the Workers' Party calls for conscience in relation to the distribution of cultural resources. It's going to be an even bigger parody when I look at proposal No. 21 from the Workers' Party. I sincerely hope that no Nord-Trøndelag will be caught with any more nodes. We already have one that the Labour Party has provided, which ensures that the municipality goes bankrupt. That's not what I was supposed to ask. I have another question for the representative Lånke. He was concerned that we had a good dialogue in the committee in the first place when we were running and negotiating. We also had that in the case of the press support. But then some statements from Lånke appeared today. The Christian People's Party and the Government want to imprint the media image. Then I would like to ask Lånker, since we agreed on the proposal we are now behind: would it not be natural for us to look at media policy in an overall context, to see whether the press support we have is necessary? Is it not also worth looking at whether it is possible to remove some of the press support and, if necessary, to clarify its consequences? In principle, the Advance Party, together with the Right, wants to remove the press support. Once we have accepted such a proposal, I also hope that the intentions behind it are to look at the funds used in the form of press support. I hope the representative Lånke was not about to say that he would give some newspapers benefits compared to other newspapers.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e214	Press support has served as an incentive to maintain the diversity and freedom of expression of the Norwegian newspaper world for over 30 years and has contributed to Norway’s world’s largest newspaper consumption. There is nothing to suggest that we reverse such a development – let it be said. It is also the goal of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. In assessing the press support in the future, it is clear that this must be done in the light of recent media developments, but also in the light of the way in which the press support operates at all times in the light of the target desired in relation to the newspapers. We know that it has worked well until now, and that it has been targeted. It's the studies that show. But at the same time, because of the economic situation, we have come to the conclusion that we have cut off this press support. That's why we're now talking on two levels. We're talking about a short-term horizon, where we need to have the most stable and predictable framework conditions for the newspapers as far as we can. That means that we want to base objective criteria on the distribution of the remaining press support, so that we protect as much as possible and can maintain the diversity we want. But at the same time, we have also said that we should investigate and review the entire framework conditions of the press, precisely in the light of the factors also mentioned by the representative Sandberg, to see if there are other approaches. It is not certain that the solution is to lift the press stand up to the level it has been at in the past. It is not certain that it is realistically political. We don't know. It may be necessary to do so in a different way, as there are many elements that form part of the framework conditions of the press. It's postage, it's government ads, not least VAT has been mentioned, and there's probably a lot of other things as well. It's important now that we reduce this sample, so we get a review. And then we get to try in the time that's in between, to avoid damage.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e223	After the government parties, the Right Party and the Advance Party had agreed on the overall framework for this year's government budget, it has been very pleasant for us as co-operative partners in the budget to hear that representatives of the government parties have stood up in a row and that the Right Party's involvement in the government budget has made the government budget a better budget than it originally was from the government's hand. Now we have also had the pleasure of working with the government parties in the Committee on the frameworks that were available there, and apart from the support we gave to Tøndelag Teater and to the Olav Festival, the priorities for which the Right has fought most have had overall national objectives. I would like to hear whether the representative Lånke considers that the right hand participation in the work on these budgetary frameworks is a positive contribution to getting better facilities on the cultural framework.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e230	I record that the representative Stolt-Nielsen understands that we have achieved a better budget after the conciliation. It is now the responsibility of the representative, Mr Stolt-Nielsen. I wouldn't have used that expression -- maybe another budget. But it was a good budget. We can live with it. There is also an overall understanding and a different impact from the starting point of the centre parties – it is known both by the representative Stolt-Nielsen and by the right – so that there is a different budget. But it was the snow that fell last year. Since I have some time to spare, I take the opportunity to complete a reply that I should have given to the representative Fossum about the Olav party days. It is correct – as was announced – that the sample in the Rikskoncerts who oppose the festival funds has gone off in protest. And now they're not just stating the Olav Festival days as reason, they've also used arguments that go to the comments of another majority of the committee. But what was the committee's starting point was this selection in the Rikskonserts has almost caught us -- they've sent out signals very early that the budget for the Olav Festivals would be cut by two thirds. At the same time we had signals from last year that this was not going to happen, and then the majority of the committee didn't think they had anything else to do but take them out. At the same time, they have given signals that the Olav Festival days have a structure that might make them not entirely compatible with the criteria for music festivals, and we agree with that. That's why we think it was a good solution to take out the post just the sum that they've had in recent years. There's no question of cutting anything here, but we've lifted them out and put them in a separate post and given them status in line with the party games in Bergen and Harstad.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e237	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e240	The cultural budget of the year is characterised by the major needs of institutions already established for operational and maintenance resources. There are few new initiatives in the budget. The search light is aimed at existing institutions and businesses. This is a priority that Right-wing supports. The right is a supporter of an active cultural policy and emphasises the crucial importance of art and culture for the development of the individual's personality and quality of life. Anchoring our national cultural heritage is an important counterweight to rootlessness and pressure against national traditions. Active cultural policies are therefore important for maintaining the national collective memory. At a time when the external cultural impact is growing, it is becoming increasingly important to develop our own cultural awareness and identity. A safe relationship with one's own cultural and value base is a prerequisite for exploiting impulses from the outside, and a prerequisite to avoid becoming passive cultural importers. It is these recognitions that underlie the priorities of the Year's Cultural Budget. With the operabatter fresh in memory, it is necessary to remember that we have some national institutions that are grossly neglected. On 1 January, the National Library will take over the current university library building. The need for a comprehensive upgrade and expansion is clearly documented. The National Library will not be able to provide a satisfactory service to the public under current conditions. However, even more serious is the precarious magazine situation, which endangers irreplaceable material of national importance. I have experienced the map magazine myself, where all the old maps from the 1500-1600-1700s are located. In the room there are more and thirty degrees, and the air is so poor that the employees cannot stay in the room for more than twenty minutes continuously. The State has a clear responsibility for providing employees with employment that meets the minimum requirements of the working environment. The right will therefore ask for the upgrading and conversion work to be continued, including the work on new warehouses, and ask the Government to help ensure that the plans for a fully-fledged national library do not become an unrealized dream. A first step may be to instruct State Building to initiate the detailed design of the construction project. The national gallery also needs investment. The situation in the warehouse is difficult and the purchasing funds are too small. The right has wanted to mark this and has got a majority to strengthen the purchasing money by half a million dollars. This is hardly enough for more than one or two works of art. However, when national gallery purchasing funds amount to only 2 million. I hope that's a positive contribution. The theatres produce more theaters than ever, but the audience visit has remained relatively constant. One theater, however, has had a strong growth in the number of visitors, Trøndelag Teater. Of course, it would only be missing when you have a new theater to show, but it also shows that good public facilities mean a lot to the visitors. The right-hand side has contributed to the troussene layer having 1 million. kr extra next year to take advantage of the opportunities offered by a new theatre. At the same time, I want to bring out two other theatres that are now waiting for new buildings. Rogaland Theatre is in front of the construction and repair project. The Committee assumes that the Government will return to the building case at the time of the examination of the next year's budget. The Hålogaland Theatre has been chosen as the Millennial Site in Troms. Architectural competition was held, and the winner was awarded this summer. Two million. kr is already used for design work. The right assumes that the Government will return to the construction project as soon as possible. The right has also received a majority in order to strengthen Bergen International Theatre by DKK 400000 in the budget. BIT is an exciting theatre with a high international profile. The theatre has evolved into a contact theater for international artistic development and gives Norwegian actors an opening to international scenes, while Norwegian audiences have the opportunity to see international stage artists in Norway. Otherwise, I have recorded during the day of the debate that the Workers' Party in particular is concerned about the lack of cultural appropriations for Buskerud. Drammen is currently developing an exciting project related to a regional cultural workshop, which can develop further into an untraditional and creative theatre. It is also very gratifying that the department has found room for its own deaf theatre in next year's budget. This is a matter that the Right has fought for too long, and that becomes an important contribution to the culture experiences of the Deaf. The theatre shall be established in cooperation between the Dove Association, the Riksteatret and the Dove's Video in Ål. Ål kommune has indicated a positive interest in establishing the theatre there, Ål kulturhus has great facilities, Døves Video in Ål and Ål folkhögskole and the course center for deaf people is located in the municipality. It is therefore a unique opportunity to establish a special theatre activity in a district with a rich cultural life. The musical chapter has come out of the year’s budgetary procedure. The right is concerned with the dissemination of Norwegian music. It was on this background that the right-wing proposal was put forward and now got a majority to strengthen the purchasing system for Norwegian phonograms by 1 million. kr. This is also not so much, but nevertheless an important signal that the majority in the Committee sees the value of the purchasing system and the possibility it offers to make Norwegian CDs available to a wider audience through, among other things. the libraries. But the record industry is struggling with distribution to the shops, and complains about the lack of playing time on radio and TV. This is primarily the responsibility of the industry. But I want to mention another project for which we have a majority, which may be a key to better distribution of Norwegian artists and records. It is proposed in the budget to grant NOK 350 000 to Norwegian Folk Music and Dance Teams to develop an Internet-based catalogue for the dissemination of folk music and folk music. It is a prerequisite that the entire folk music community benefits from the project. It is also assumed that the Internet base is connected to the corresponding bases in the Nordic region. There is an increasing interest in Norwegian traditional music, skilled young performers show up as folk musicians. Many are also optimistic about the opportunities of Norwegian folk music to reach out internationally. This is positive, and it is important that the Ministry, the Council of Culture, the National Concerts and others contribute positively to this development. It is also gratifying that Brazz Brothers will receive a further 500,000 kroner in next year's budget. They give between 120 and 150 concerts a year, do extensive work for children and young people, and are excellent ambassadors for Norwegian music. In this year's budget setting, the right has focused on the state grant holders. This group of deserved artists and researchers has very different sizes of their scholarships It seems that the treatment of this group has been random. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee asks that an assessment be made of the size of the scholarships of individual state grant holders. I want to pay tribute to the Minister of Culture for making such a clear and unambiguous priority when she was told to cut $35 million. kr in its own budget. The Council of State was right in saying that it was more important to protect cultural measures than press support. This priority has full support from the Right. We are, as we know, opponents of the press stand, we are followers of a free and independent press. It is valuable for society that there is a pattern of free and independent local, regional and nationwide newspapers. However, the press must be independent of the authorities, and the Right is therefore in principle in favour of the closure of the press support. That being said, the Right will of course reserve the right to express its opinion on the device on the part of the press stand that remains. I have given signals on this, and I expect the Council of State to take it into account when she is about to clarify quickly how the press support will be distributed in 1999. The right supports the proposal to investigate all parts of the press support and other components constituting the framework conditions of the press. This is of course necessary in the light of the emergence also of new media. As far as media policy is concerned, there is not much to say, that is. there should have been a lot to say, but it has happened very little since the Minister of Culture took over last autumn. We are waiting in excitement for the Storing Message about sponsorship and digitisation, and expect these matters to come to Stortinget soon. Next year we're going to celebrate the thousandth anniversary. The right is in favour of many of the plans and projects to which the Twentieth Year Company submits. However, we are very concerned about the level of expectations of appropriations that build up. It is soon not a matter of contact to us cultural politicians without possible appropriations being linked up to the millennial shift, and if you add up the plans that lie down, both the accumulation and the government are likely to be short. The positive thing, however, is that this shows a tremendous commitment to Culture Norway. This commitment must be taken care of, regardless of the forthcoming millennium.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e280	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e284	The right-hand side says a lot about culture in its general notes, where it is, among other things. states that the State must provide infrastructure and artistic training and provide the economic basis for the national cultural institutions, and Greece followed closely in its contribution. It sounds so good, but now it is such that the Right is competing with the Advance Party to reduce taxes and other state income items. That's Right Heart Case No. 1, which goes in front of everything else. There is therefore reason to be skeptical about the Right-wing Programme Declarations. Money will hardly flow to the cultural sector when budgets are to be aged. Today, the Right floats to ensure that others secure the country’s income. I am afraid many will experience getting good words on the road, just as Youth Against Violence received from the budget we discussed this morning. The organisation got a lot of good words in a comment, but when there were questions about allocation, the Right prioritised something else. The fine words were to support the Workers' Party's concrete proposals on earmarked operating aid, but no. Neither organizations nor people can live by words alone. There is also reason to ask what is behind the relationship that the Right could not be involved in the comment of the Committee majority, where it warns against rigid requirements for the management of objectives and results in the field of art and culture. The majority, all except the Right and Advance Party, ask the Government to assess whether strict target and result management is appropriate for the cultural sector. In fact, there are few methods of measuring quality in this area. Moreover, it is also the case that art and culture primarily have qualitative objectives. The right does not want such an assessment. Compared to the cut in the allocation of music festivals, there is also reason to ask if Right wants to strengthen what I would call the elite culture, at the expense of the more popular engagement that takes place on the so-called grassroots, among other things. through the many music festivals around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e300	The representative, Mr. Breimo, said that the Right was very nice about culture, and I agree with that. But I get a little worried when he says that if the Right had run the country, the culture would have gone soft. The right has shown before and will show later that if we're in position, we give priority to the cultural effort. We have our firm cut on the cultural budget, and I have just explained that in my post, namely the press support. We have a fundamental explanation for that: we're going to go against it. Besides, there are some cuts, but it's not about large sums. Then ask the representative, Mr. Breimo, why could not the Right be involved in this remark on target and result management. We could've been on it, but now it's going to make the comment that's in front of it, that's what a whole committee is behind it, that's what I wrote, and it goes on the exact same thing: ‘The Committee has noted that a number of complaints have recently been raised by artists and organisers about bureaucracy and forms in relation to the various cultural support schemes. The Committee considers that it is important to strike a reasonable balance between the need to have a reasonable control over the use of the funds for their purposes and the consideration of a smooth and non-bureaucratic application and control procedure. The Committee asks the Ministry to review the aid schemes for this purpose. Such a review could also contribute to a greater proportion of cultural resources being devoted to cultural activities and less to administration.’» This was a unanimous committee that joined, and I feel in many ways that that signal is clear enough. The signal given there simply means that the Minister of Culture now has to go through and look at the support schemes in place and try to reduce bureaucracy. So you could say that the cultural committee might have a tendency to write long comments. Occasionally it may be appropriate not to enter into all.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e314	In its draft budget, the Progress Party has reduced the position of film production because we think it seems wrong. As this support works today, millions can be given to film projects that only gather a handful of spectators at the premiere. It is also the case that aid is granted in proportion to the number of tickets sold, so that e.g.: Cash benefits such as ‘Olsenbanden’ may be SEK 7.5 million. kr in ticket support and the film «Solan, Ludvig and Gurin with reverompa» even more. Does the Right agree with the Advance Party that this item can be significantly reduced and that the conditions for obtaining aid need to be reconsidered? The production aid and the ticketing aid are in the same bag allocation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e321	I can agree with Mr Bredvold on a certain point on the road. The right has used to propose a small cut in support for the production of Norwegian films, but in no way such giant cut as the Progress Party suggests. I believe in many ways that the film support schemes are relatively comprehensive and complicated. But if we look at our neighboring country and the investment in film production, it is clear that Norway is far behind. It's not a goal to make movies that nobody sees, but it's not just a goal to make movies like the 'Olsenbanden'. It must be a goal to be able to produce quality films that may reach a larger and international audience. Remember that Olsenbanden has his brothers and sisters both in Sweden and Denmark. It is not the type of film that Norway can sell internationally. I therefore believe that we need a nice mix of what are publicists in Norway, and what can have a potential to give a picture of Norway abroad. Films are just a full start at the height of many others and should therefore be supported by the public. But, of course, it can be discussed how this support is used, how the funds are distributed. That discussion would be a good idea to take part in, and I also hope that the Progress Party will see that there may be a need to support quality films, even though that term probably does not sound good in Bredvold's ears.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e328	One would think that the answer given by the representative to Bredvold in the case of production proposals for films had become the opposite in relation to what Right would give in its alternative budget, not reducing it further, but increasing it, because Trond Helleland argued well when it owed him the right to provide production support for Norwegian films. Right says in a note in the budget setting: ‘It is valuable for society to have a pattern of free and independent local, regional and national newspapers. This should be ensured through competition in an open market. The press shall be independent of the authorities and the Right is therefore in principle in favour of the winding-up of the State press aid.’ Then it's not a gradual decrease. But in their alternative budget, they propose to remove the entire support. And isn't the representative of Greece afraid of what consequences it will have if you want to remove all the ideas? So we're going into the equation with the Right and the Advance Party for a reduction of 35 million. And we also see what noise it creates. It would be a pretty big rackad if everything were removed, and I also believe that it would have an impact on the ability of hard-to-reach newspapers to maintain the basis for publishing and maintaining the basis for alternatives to the leading daily newspapers at local and national level in the same way as today. Otherwise, I would like to thank the Right for a good and constructive cooperation within the Committee on the treatment of cultural frames. It has been a positive cooperation, but when it comes to the press support, I wonder that Right wants to remove everything.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e342	There should be a relatively well-known position on the right when it comes to the press stand, namely that we want to wind up. What is gratifying is that when, together with the Progress Party, we now hold up the pressure to remove the press support, it seems that the center parties are gradually beginning to come after – 15 million. kroner last year and 35 million. kr in year. If that rate continues, the press support has been removed during the period. Then it's fairer to say that the press support is something we're basically opposed to and want to wind up, instead of doing like the center parties, and traveling around at all Norwegian congresses where newspaper people are gathered, and saying that one is a member of the press support, and then cut it afterwards. I don't think that's particularly fair. Then it's much better to say it actually means, and stand for it, instead of taking some turns in the budget and then cutting off the press support. I have great respect for – and I also said that in my speech – that the Government and the Minister for Culture chose to cut off the press support and justified it because it was more important to protect cultural resources than to protect the media. I have great respect for that, and I hope that the centre parties will gradually come to the realization that the press support is not the one that keeps alive in the diversity of Norwegian newspapers that are also occupied with the Right. We have a number of local newspapers in this country that go very well, we have a number of regional viewers in this country that go very well, and we have a number of national newspapers, national newspapers that go very well. I'm sure with the emergence we also see of new media, for example. Internet newspapers that have a potential coverage across the country, as when all households, who get out of the country, etc., we will gradually get more and more questions about whether it is important to maintain a press support of over 200 million. kr from the public sector. Could the money have been used for anything else? Could the money have been used for something more reasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e349	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e352	There is no doubt that cultural policy is the pillars of better quality of life, creativity, identity and well-being. When we are happy, we will also be able to spend more, for the benefit of everyone. Culture is developed both in individuals and between people in common. If part of us is very, very, very close to the ground, we need both roots and wings. Roots in their own culture provide a foundation for opening up to unwatery and forward-looking culture. Knowing their own culture also makes it easier to deal with influences where market, advertising and money interests are driving forces. We can only conclude that, through cultural activities, creativity and development are stimulated by the individual and otherwise in society. In addition, it provides a basis for good Community experiences that in turn trigger self-activity. At the same time, we have to stop and think about what values we want to build on, and what kind of communities we really want. There is also a link between the use of cultural services by people and the availability of cultural services. Therefore, it is so important that a cultural policy allows everyone to experience and participate in cultural activities, from sport to rock to opera, and theatre for that part. In the lack of cultural debate, which focuses on individual details, important areas can drown. I would therefore like to highlight the draft budget for strengthening the decentralised museum supply in the counties. These cultural institutions carry out important work in terms of disseminating local cultural history and caring for local cultural heritage. These museums have had the economic difficulty for many years. One increase of 9 pst. now will therefore be able to remedy this. I would also like to mention that a sum is now being set aside for the launch of a three-year project with sign language theatres for the deaf and the deaf. The Norwegian Federation of Deaf People and the deaf organisations have worked for many years to get their own theater, set up at the deaf’s premises. There is a cooperation project between, among others. The Riksteatret and the Norwegian Federation of Deaf Persons, which are to form the starting point for this. Such an action will open the culture of groups for which little has been done so far. It's nice that the government, in spite of an orphanage, can find room for such a measure. It is also important to look at libraries and public information as the basis for local cultural work. Here libraries must be developed to become a meeting place and an information centre by using new technologies, preventing people from being separated from those who can't. Elles looks forward to receiving a big message next year when it comes to libraries, archives and museums, among others. This will be recorded. Otherwise, I'm glad that Norway's Gållag and the Norwegian Association have now returned to their own budget post in order to make a basic institution for innovative cultural work visible. For over a hundred years, the team has been working for the government to allow the new Norwegian authors to use their own languages. In addition, it is positive that the Landssamansludninga For Nynorskkommunar – LNK – has made such a fine mark in order to improve the language and procedures in the municipalities with a course for the administration and the rule of law. This is a work that requires further follow-up. We can also benefit from culture in a broader context, and I am thinking of cooperation between culture, the environment and health. Human beings must be viewed in health and depend on a broad cultural and biological diversity in order to live. I believe that in order to avoid depression and diseases that follow in the footsteps of it, we need to focus on the forces that cultural deprivation gives. Nor is it without reason that the Swedish business guru Professor Kjell A. Nordström in his teaching of business stoppages asks them to put away the trade books and to go to the theater and read the literature to work better. Menneska has always shown that different forms of art such as music, theatre, art and literature have a healthful effect. We must also take this further into account in our work on the cultural front.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e378	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e381	I'm gonna have to plague the Center Party on this with the press support. I'm very shocked that the Center Party is being conducted by the Right Party and the Advance Party in terms of the press policy. We've just heard the right say the goal is that the press release should go away, but it looks like the strategy is that it should be bitwise taken. Then it's no wonder that Trond Helleland, in an earlier article, cheered that they were succeeding in the strategy. The Central Party has previously participated in defending the newspaper diversity, No. The 2 newspapers, the local newspapers and the national opinion papers that do not have many powerful owners in their back. And the only way to limit the power that the biggest newspapers have over the social debate and to set the agenda is that there are alternatives. I am asking the representative of Aarrestad to imagine an EU debate without newspapers such as the Nations and the Class Struggle. We have tried to refer to alternatives in terms of the cut in the press release. It's not fun to cut into other heart matters either, but priorities are sometimes painful. And it would have been possible for the Center Party to follow us in exactly that priority if they thought it was important to preserve the press support. Last year, the Central Party shared SV's concerns about the development of the prison libraries, and Unn Aarrestad is the case rapporteur for this particular field. Prisons that have been waiting for years must be provided with library services. Prison inmates borrow far more books than is usual in society. Providing such an opportunity to several prisoners is one of several measures that can give the soning a substance. When I was visiting Oslo County Prison this fall, I saw the importance of the prison library in prison everyday. We have a proposal for more resources for the prison library and for the multicultural library within the budget frame. When will the Centre Party comply with the promises they have made in the past in exactly these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e391	First, a little bit about the prison libraries. I think last year we're talking about exactly this, and we'll come back to this when we get the message that deals with library, archive and museum, in the year that comes. So to the debt of removing the press support bit by bit. It's certainly not the opinion of the Center Party, and I also believe that the representative Valle is fully aware of that. But since we were forced to cut down – not influenced by the Right and the Advance Party, but one place had to take the cut-off on the cultural budget – one did so to screen the rest. That's what I think I've also come up with quite clearly. Therefore, there is one who will look at the devices of this, so that there should be at least possible damage to the newspapers. We want to keep up the small locals and national newspapers and make sure that there is a variety of newspapers around the country. Then we need more than one newspaper, to put it correctly. Therefore, we ask the Government to bring down a public selection to look at all of this in the context. It has been known as VAT, government ads, postage and press support in the context. One also needs to look at some of the details in this, which are really complicated so that we can't deal with it directly in Stortinget, but we ask the ministry to come back with this. Then I think we'll be able to get something everyone can live with, which might also be positive.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e398	The representative Aarrestad stresses that the cut in the newspaper support is not influenced by the Right and Advance Party, but is a separate centre party choice. We've noticed that with surprise, the rest of us too. So the representative Aarrestad said we have to protect the national newspapers and local newspapers. I have just one small question in that context: what is the reason why the representative Aarrestad wants to put down Rogaland's newspaper?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e405	I've never expressed any desire to shut down Rogaland Avis, or any other number. Two papers for that part. I never said anything like that, so I don't know where Alstad's representative got it from. I know that the paper was presented as an example during the debate on the corresponding budget last year. I'm very concerned that we shouldn't be running political censorship, and so at least we shouldn't take away newspapers from special political parties. No. The two newspapers consist after a while of some rather independent newspapers and newspapers, among other things. in Northern Norway, which at least has our right-wing friends. But I've never said anything about Rogaland's newspaper or other newspapers that are or have been related to the A-press. I think it is positive that we have a varied press just to show the lack, and as a corrective where we have a single big newspaper that dominates completely. The big newspaper also enjoys the fact that there are several maybe small and oxygen terriers that bite sometimes, when needed. That's my vision.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e410	The representative of Aarrestad was somewhat startled when I wondered why she would lay down Rogaland's newspaper, and claimed that she had never said that. - No, there's no need to speak. It will be the consequence of the policy recommended by Unn Aarrestad and the Central Party that national newspapers and local newspapers should be protected. Then there's only one group of newspapers left, that's the number. The two papers. There aren't so many of them left around the country. If they're 35 million. kr shall be taken there only, this will be the consequence of the policy of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e415	I think I had said quite clearly now in my previous post what I meant about this. When you cut down, first of all you look at the whole device that applies to the press release. It's e.g. Nor is there any doubt that the individual newspapers, such as the Financial Newspaper, had received 6-7 million. kr alone. We must be allowed to ask ourselves the question: Is this the right use of the press support? There may be other newspapers that, if they go over to Sunday newspapers, get $5 million. kr alone. May there be a proper use of the press support? There are such things you also have to look at, at the same time, looking at the number of single newspapers, whether it's the right number you have now, or whether it would be wiser to put on a different number of pages. At least I don't want to know that it's going to be insinuated that I want to put down the cork Rogaland newspaper or other number. 2 newspapers, because I see the importance of having several newspapers that can follow up and take care of what has to happen around the community. That's why we're trying as hard as we can, to take care of the newspaper problem that we have here in the country. But there may be areas that need to be re-examined – whether there is a proper use of public money.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e422	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e425	In all budgetary procedures, SV will fight some battles to secure the place of art and culture in society, to ensure a diversity of cultural voices around the country, to ensure innovation and innovation. In cultural life, there will always be dilemmas and contradictions, but it's giving room for the contradictions, for tension, that creative forces can unfold. There is, in contrast, between the professional culture and the amateur culture, between the established culture and the experimental, between institutional and free groups, between projects and operating aid, between metropolitan and rural culture, between the national and international development of art and culture. If the art is to live, the artists must also live. Therefore, it is so important for SV to ensure good grant schemes that can give newly established young artists the opportunity to establish, develop and secure the free position of art, and strengthen the guarantee income scheme that has proved to have a positive effect by allowing artists to live and live outside the big cities. Living artistic environments throughout the country are an important prerequisite for living settlements. But if artists are to be able to live and thus flourish their cultural life, artists must also be given tasks, whether they are through decorating schemes, through schemes that can ensure that Norwegian authors get their books published, through theatres and TV showing newly written Norwegian drama, through the fact that we have orchestras playing Norwegian contemporary music, by the fact that dancers also get tasks outside the two institutions we have, by the fact that Norwegian film gets a chance, and by the fact that there is room for communication, both in terms of resources and arenas. Close budgets and increasing demands for own resources and profitability may threaten diversity and hinder innovation. Then we believe in SV that it is timely to ask: does not culture deserve greater space than 0.7 pst. by the State budget? That is why, in our primary proposal, we have proposed an increase of 223 million in the cultural budget. kr more than the government proposal. Everyone – including the Minister of Culture – knows that this modest increase would bring creativity both in the professional and the more popular culture to flourish. The 1,300 applications for the thousand-year projects just testify to that. They make more visible than any need for more money for culture. Creative people, institutions and organisations had earned the cash support that increased cultural appropriations would be. Efforts at art and culture certainly do not lead to overheating of the Norwegian economy – to those who say it. Nor does it invest in those cultural buildings that are now waiting for a trip. They've got their place in our primary budget. This concerns the Youth Centre, the Rogaland Theatre, the Hålogaland Theatre, the National Scene – to name a few. So there's also something to enjoy in this budget. Norwegian stage art use is one measure. The fact that the majority have adhered to our view that strict target and result management is easily a coercion for cultural life is another. This note obliges the Government to go through the governance of cultural life and look at the form tyranny. To Trond Helleland, I would like to say that it is precisely this strict result management that leads to the form tyranny of cultural life. The collapse of the press support by the night settlement partners made it extra necessary for SV to refer to re-priorities within the frame, because we now see that the right side gets the government party with it on a gradual closure of the press support, which we see is absolutely vital for a newspaper diversity and a prerequisite for freedom of expression and for the visibility of local organisational and cultural life. We are very shocked at the government party and at the Minister of Culture. We have shown that it is possible to save the press shock on other cuts if it is to be cut. So cutting it is the responsibility of the night-time settlers. It's not with a light heart that I'm pointing at the funds that are set aside for the Millennium, but we think it's worse to go into the next millennium with closed newspapers. We propose other repriorities: more to Oslo Sinfonietta, to the prison library and the multicultural library, to the Youth Centre, to the Hordaland Theatre, which almost lives on buttons and gloss pictures, and to the BIT and Falstad Museum. All these are priorities within the cultural budget. Otherwise, the budgetary position is full of our views and remarks, which I recommend for further reading. On behalf of SV, I take up the suggestions set out in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e448	Ågot Valle has taken up the suggestions she herself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e453	Through these budgetary negotiations, the Progress Party has been called a rabiat and different because we cut the cultural budget. I am not going to use the same vocabulary to Ågot Valle and SV – it had to go in the other direction in the case. Finally, Ågot Valle starts on the list and more – if she had taken care of that whole list, it probably wouldn't have been an early evening for any of us. SV wants to spend more money on culture, 223 million. kr in this case, inter alia. Fifteen million. kr extra to millennia celebration, extra to Nordic Black Theater, 2 million. extra kr for the decoration of public buildings, etc. All of us would have preferred to have enough SV to have seen that we had used 2 or 3 pst. of the budget for culture. 223 million. kr is equal to, rapidly calculated, approx. 8 500 kindergartens a year. The party of progress is severely criticised for doing so. Is it not also now natural that SV should begin to see its priorities in a way related to all the budgets? Had it not been more natural that SV had initially granted this money, among other things. to more child protection, if that's what they want, to more nursery places, since they go so high on the track in that area?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e462	Yes, it's perfectly understood that we want more for culture and art. And it's not like a million dollars increase in art and culture leads to overheating in the Norwegian economy. For those who justify cutting down on the fact that we now need to tighten up the Norwegian economy: go look at what economists now say, there are completely different reasons than public consumption that lead to problems for the Norwegian economy! Thus, some more funds do not lead to overheating of the Norwegian economy. On the other hand, it had enabled us to use creative forces, to give people better quality of life and good experiences in everyday life. If we had given culture more space, it wouldn't have been at least a good and effective buffer to commercial simplicity. But I assume that the Progress Party does not care so much about it. So Per Sandberg must have followed very poorly with earlier today, because within the framework of the Ministry of Children's and Family Affairs, we just showed that there was room for more funding for child protection and for kindergartens, for reducing parental payments, etc. That distribution/priority was different from that of the Progress Party, but we certainly see the context of what we do – therefore also more resources for culture.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e469	The representative of Ågot Valle is a committed and initiative-rich cultural politician. When a person sits and listens to the representatives of the Party of Advancement and SV in a row, one in a way experiences two straight contradictions. That's where the Progress Party cuts, plus the SV on. I have in front of me SV's list of additions – one and a half sides for all kinds of good purposes across the country, together approx. 280 million. kr extra, if I am not mistaken, for cultural purposes. Who wouldn't want to spend so much money on culture? And when you hear Ågot Valle describe what culture can accomplish, a whole thing gets touched. But the reality isn't even that we can spend so much money. I would like to ask the representative Valle if it is a wise strategy of SV to waving as much SV kroner as one does not get anything for. The suggestions create many expectations around, but nothing comes out of them. And if they had now been adopted in a given case, we know that it would have to be continued at a much higher level in next year's budget. And at least that would in the long run lead to an unfortunate situation for the Norwegian economy. My question is, without me getting too involved in SV's political strategy: wouldn't it be wise if SV operated a little more on the same wavelength as the rest of us?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e477	I would first like to say thank you for your words. So it's asking what kind of wavelength we're going to operate on. I've made it quite clear both that we see the need and that there is room for more cultural crowns. And if there's something that we get a lot out of, it's just the cultural heads. Just by the thought that money can go out for some thousand-year projects, creativity flourishes all over the country – they think that if we just get $100,000, we're going to take a roof and make a lot of effort, and that's exactly what cultural life is. So we mean there's room for more interest in culture. It will give us a richer Norway, which will enable us to meet future and all the challenges that lie there. And then it's like we're actually putting funds into culture over funds into weapons. The majority would in the agreement have 450 million more weapons, and I'm pretty sure that Ola T. Borrowing and Christian People's Party really believe that it would be much more right to bet on culture and all that we're burning for together. I'm sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e486	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e489	It was kind of fun for someone who's been sitting on the cultural committee for over a year, to hear the last line change, when you think that it's not that many years since the Senter party was also out there and suggested 200 million more to culture than the government had originally planned, so here it goes in waves how much you want to add. The cultural budget that came in October was basically not fit to surprise so much. Here everything was largely carried on as it was, and there were no new ideas about the further development of culture. Culture in the districts, in which the Workers' Party has been involved, was given little attention. And the signal projects that we started, which would contribute to different exciting bets across the country, were cut, offers for children and young people were toned down – a rather boring and conservative cultural budget. So the center took 10 million before the agreement took another 35 million in cuts. Now no one had called for cutbacks in support of the newspapers, it was the Minister of Culture himself who chose it. It could have been cut elsewhere, for example. within the 148 million increase in the budget. When the Minister of Culture says that the alternative was to shut down two theatres, it doesn't call for sympathy. On the contrary, there is an attempt to make its own policies poor. If the Minister of Culture had reduced the increase to 113 million, there would be no dramatic consequences. By contrast, this year's cut will mean that newspapers are laid down, and from experience we know that nothing is as dead as a dead newspaper. The press has played an important role as one of the building blocks of our democracy, and we have been proud that we have managed to maintain a diverse and differentiated press pattern. Whenever changes are made to the minimum subsidy scheme, the production grant, there may be consequences for the long-term pressure pattern. The VAT exemption, the ads and the press support have benefited from various newspapers. In the long term, when one aid is severely affected, the legitimacy of the other schemes will also be weakened. But I expect the minister to have a full overview of the significance even a small cut in the press support could have. And there's no need to minimize the significance of that. It has also been realised by the newspaper organisations, and they have now recommended that the cut be evenly distributed to all. The Minister of Culture has been out there with the signals to protect the newspapers that stand her almost politically, leaving to the other newspapers to take the whole cut. In this way, one can help further exacerbate the effects of today’s cut. It is very serious in a democracy if we get a political system that ‘rewards’ our own newspapers, and kisses others. If questions can be asked about this, the legitimacy of the entire press support will disappear, and with it the support will also disappear. It is serious if we get a Minister of Culture who can be compared to more totalitarian systems, where politicians decide which newspapers to publish. Such a minister of culture has not deserved Norwegian democracy. It's been wondering why the Minister of Culture cut and who she was listening to. Now everyone is free to choose their advisers, so I find that in a letter to the committee she takes full responsibility for the assessment that has been made. But when the head of the Central Party jumps the honors of the major interests, it is also natural that questions are asked about the process, at least when it happens in the enclosed spaces, without the possibility of transparency and debate. And it's not going to stick under the chair that big market actors like that. Orcs in the short term serve the grip of the state councils. And by letting some newspapers take everything cut and shield others, Orkla and other major participating interests will serve further. Since the Council of State has not yet been available for comments on this budget cut, I will now take the opportunity to ask why the Council of State cuts in the press support, how the cut will happen, and what newspapers will die. Because I expect the Council of State to be aware of how her policy will turn out. So finally, in a line change, the Committee's chairman tried to minimize the importance of the cut in the press support earlier today. It tells me one thing: here's little knowledge about the situation of the papers and how well the press support hits. It makes me even more concerned, if possible, than if you were with knowledge and will and declared goal cutters in the press support.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e510	As Minister of Culture, I am concerned with the conditions of art and culture in our country. A cultural nation must be willing to give priority to both creative and performing arts, cultural protection and heritage and dissemination. As a cultural nation, we both have to set high quality requirements across a broad spectrum and stimulate public engagement, community and participation. We must ensure both peak, breadth and diversity. It provides the basis for a richer life, it helps to give the growing generation strength to meet the future, to take responsibility and be creative in the face of new challenges. Artists and cultural workers need to think a lot about their efforts. And there's also a lot of exciting and creative going on across the whole country. Nevertheless, it is my opinion that over the years we have not prioritised art and culture highly enough. It could be related to a lot of relationships. There is no law here to ensure appropriations, tight economy has led to small and vulnerable cultural budgets having little to do with school, health and roads. And what are we really going to do with opera for the few and with failed film projects, maybe someone asks. Is that how it is, or do we finally see an increasing understanding of the importance of art and culture for our society? I think so. The government's proposals for the 1999 government budget were tight. During the autumn, it became clear that the Workers' Party and the Right agreed to take from the growth of private consumption for the benefit of the community. This led, as you know, to a process in which the Government's proposals for increased revenues were zeroed out and replaced by new cuts. It was a painful process, of course. I have registered that the Workers' Party in its arrangement did not cut the cultural budget. Looking away from the press stand, which the Right would completely remove, was also the Right more detention with cuts in the cultural budget now than before. There is therefore a large majority on the Stortinget that will protect the cultural area against cuts. The wish to protect one partially vulnerable and underprioritized cultural life against cuts was also the reason why I found myself able to take a cut of 35 million. kr on the production grant for the press support. There have been strong reactions, and I have a great deal of understanding of that. Let me therefore point out that in the government's arrangement there was an increase in the production grant of 6.4 million. kr, and I would also like to stress the press policy objectives of maintaining the basis for newspaper publications and a differentiated press. This is firm. It is therefore necessary to review the legislation in order to achieve its objectives. And as for the suggestion of totalitarian regimes, it falls on its own unreasonableness. We're in front of a thousand-year change. It's coming anyway. The government has stressed the need to seize this unique opportunity for a cultural boost for the whole country. I'm glad that, in addition to the ordinary cultural budget, a majority of 55 million has been established. for this purpose in 1999. The work on the marking has triggered a joyful activity all over the country, and I would like to elaborate on this, among other things. by pointing out that 1 200 applications for project funding have now been received. Creativity and diversity are impressive. And although SV and the Workers' Party have decided to cut 45 million. kr in this post this year, I choose to believe that we will work together in the future for a collective and worthy marking of this historic event. Let me do a couple of points in the configuration. With regard to the comments made by the majority of committees on rock, I expect that part of it is based on misunderstandings. And I'm waiting for comments, among other things. from the representative of Alstad to it in the course of the debate, because what the majority has done will have untold consequences. With regard to the question of the Rikspolitische Zenter on Eidsvoll, which I was told about by the representative Grethe Fossum, it is true that there were problems with the basic conditions. I chose to attend a meeting with the municipality, the county council, the centre and State Building, and we have got this matter into a good water, and come back to Stortinget with it during the spring. With regard to the sport on the state budget, it is that there are gambling revenues that form the basis for funding sport and coordination of the games, which was agreed at Odelstinget yesterday, will mean that there is actually an increase in gambling revenue. An annual debate on sport I think it is important to add up, and that is why it will be based on the annual budgets, even though there are not a few million in the state budget in a separate budget line that you have had in the past. I would also like to point out that we want to provide a notice in 1999 on sport and the money for sport. I would say that it was right to put this up wide and focus on both physical birth, on the local outdoor life and on the ratio of top to width.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e529	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e532	The Minister of Culture chose to cut off the press support. In the cultural sector it could have been cut in the increase that had been introduced. However, if one calculates all the transfers, there was an increase of 48 million. kr. Why don't you cut here? It may be interesting for us to know whether the Government supports the proposal for an investigation that is on the table as a joint proposal by the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Centre – a proposal that was promoted today and where the only difference in relation to the Labour Party's proposal is that it is not explicitly stated that the press policy objectives remain valid, as the Labour Party wants them to do also in the context of a new investigation of the press support. Why is a proposal promoted where this is not one of the starting points? So I'm going to give the Council of State the chance to answer my challenge in my post: Why is it cut in the press support, how should it be cut in the press support, and what newspapers have to take the consequences of it and go in?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e541	I am glad that I got this line, because then I can elaborate on what Alstad also took up in his post. Let me first say that I made it clear that the policy objectives of the press are firm. I therefore expect that it will be almost unanimous to get a public investigation into all aspects of the relationship for the press, both the press support schemes, the VAT exemption, the advertisements and developments on the postage side. So the question is, why are we cutting in press support? I don't like it, I'd like to admit it. I increased the production grant by 6.4 million. kr, but saw me not able to take this anywhere else, when the cut was a reality, than here. And no one can say that there is a small speaking group I have challenged to take this cut. So here it's 35 million. kr. I want to say that it can be distributed so that I think we can save what is the goal of the press support schemes. Of course, I distance myself from the assumption from Right Greece that this should be the beginning to the end of the press support system. There is no majority for that in this Chamber – on the contrary. So there's a question of how we're going to cut, and this time I have fortunately avoided a majority who have imposed the form of how this is to be done. But it is not easy to explain how to do such a cut. It's a big cut, it's problematic, and it'll be noticed by all the newspapers that get press support. But I will come back with that, at the end of January I expect. Press support is based on accounting figures from the previous year, so it is impossible for some to figure out how this will turn out at the present time.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e550	The challenge actually went to Alstad in terms of Total Norwegian Rock. The Progress Party, together with the Workers' Party and SV, has provided a majority of comments here. I have received today a letter from the Norwegian Music Council, which makes it clear that there may be a danger in the majority proposal. It's probably because of some ignorance and you haven't got into the intentions with the comments. For the Progress Party, there is at least a clear direction in some of the wishes we have with cultural policy. It must never be, or continue, as it is in the case of the Rikskonserten, that it is in a way up to representatives of the popular singers to decide how to use the instruments of popular singers, to promote culture that others have determined to contain more quality or more high-quality music than popular singers. That's what's going on. Back to what the Council of State was about when it came to the press. I asked the former representative Lånke about the same thing, and now I hear that the Council of State is very concerned about clarifying that the objectives of the press policy should be saved. Now the government parties, the Advance Party and the Right have agreed on a unified proposal that has a different content. Is it still very important for the Council of State and the Government to pursue the press policy objectives that I consider to be political media governance?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e559	To the last one first. The politics of the media is becoming completely meaningless to me. Here we are in a situation with a well-established system to ensure the diversity of the press. It's targeted at three categories, it's local, it's no. The 2 newspapers, and those are the nationwide newspapers. And once you have set up a support system to secure these, it's precisely because you see the need for diversity in the media. The question of what should be the purpose of a public body is quite clear to me. As indicated in the proposal, it will be to ensure the press policy objectives set there, but of course it will be a process of drawing up a mandate for such a public body. As for the question of this formulation of Total Norsk Rock, I have tried to study it a little bit. Especially when this is connected to the transfer of money, as it is in the note, this might have unintended effects. In any case, as I see it, it's a little bit unclear how to take away appropriations for the tour subsidy scheme, which has had a lot of excitement, and which has been open to everyone in the field of rhythmic music, and to set up a scheme that might, among other things. means that the Norwegian Rockebund and all others who have benefited from the Tournament Grant Scheme will be lost. That's the one, and I'd like to challenge the Workers' Party and those who are behind the majority here, on what they actually mean. In other words, it says: ‘It is not desirable to use creative resources to a large extent in the fight for financial resources instead of cultural production.’ The fact is that you want to have a different composition of the sample that allocates funds. I agree with the intention here, but I do not agree with the suggestion that almost all the organisations should sit in the sample, it is for me a fight that is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e571	The Minister of Culture is concerned about the millennium — it is positive — and refers to the 1200 applications received for thousands of years. What the Minister of Culture did not mention was the sum requested, which is 750 million. kr. In addition, we know that there are now a large number of states in line to launch their millennial sites, and that there are a number of other millennial projects on the bed. Is not the Minister of Culture afraid that the expectations created in relation to this millennium are great? And in that case, how will the Minister of Culture contribute to subverting the expectations of appropriations created? So over to the press support: the Minister of Culture says very clearly that she chose to do the cut in the press support to protect the culture. I think that is a clear signal that the least priority, the least important, in the budget of the Minister of Culture, is the support for the press. But then, of course, the Minister of Culture continues to present the press policy objectives and repeats that they stand firm. Then the question is whether to believe it, when the cut last year was taken into the press support and cut this year is taken into the press support, and the Minister of Culture says this is the least priority area, or where anyone would cut if one had to cut. Isn't it fairer to say that the Central Party and the Minister for Culture will reconsider the support for the press? Because that's actually what the Minister of Culture is about to do by cutting 50 million. kr over 2 years. It's a big cut-off – and the Right supports it – but I think the Minister of Culture could say that's what she actually means.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e578	Trond Helleland was only in the millennial turn and the expectations that were created – I would rather say the joyful commitment and the creativity expressed: 1,200 project applications already. We also know that there are 300 municipalities that have established their own thousand-year committees, and I am convinced that we are not expected to grant more from the Stortinges and the State than what is actually seen to be granted. But it's money, it's creativity, it's commitment to the system, and it's doing a lot in municipalities on private initiative, in business -- it's possible to get sponsor income. So I think that in sum this will be a worthy highlight of a great event in our lives. That's at least my hope, even in terms of these thousand-year-olds. I think people recognize that there may not be as much money as you thought initially, or that you have put the list up to, but that you can actually get a little, which can be an incentive – and then you get synergistic effects. So to press support again: is this the least priority area in the Ministry of Culture's budget? Yeah, it might seem like that. I see it. So I mean, when I'm going to make a total assessment, a cut of 35 million. kr something I can defend in this area, but I don't like it! And I want to work to get a distribution of this that can ensure what is the goal of the press support system. If it's fairest to say that we're reviewing the entire press stand? So there's a lot of things going on in this area. changes in ownership, some newspapers with press support have quite good earnings, etc. These are areas that we can look at more closely, but the aim of the press support system is maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e597	In autumn, the Minister of Culture presented a budget that in many ways consolidated the position in cultural life — and then there were a few speeches next to it. It's like the position of art and culture in society, which both the Minister of Culture and I are concerned about, is decided in the state budget – where art and culture are therefore treated with 0.7 pst. – and in the municipal budgets, and it is in my opinion in the municipalities that the major challenge now lies. With poor local economy, without rights and protection, the culture is legitimate — especially for children and young people, the multicultural meeting and contemporary art. Then my question is, what does the Minister of Culture want to do? What kind of initiative will she take to ensure the diversity of art and culture without giving pious prayers to the municipalities? The Minister of Culture said, of course, that without a law that guarantees appropriations, and with a tight economy, there is a danger of cuts. Furthermore, a Nordic report has now come to show that our orchestras are mostly playing traditional music and very little contemporary music. Then it's about making sure the existence of the ensembles that follow the need for dissemination and presentation – and reinterpretation – of the new music. There aren't many of them, but it's about making sure the existence of the few flowers that are there. Oslo Sinfonietta is one of them. The Committee wrote a letter asking what the Minister of Culture would do to secure Oslo Sinfonietta — and got no answer. The Culture Council has asked for the establishment of a music ensemble support scheme to ensure the support of Oslo Sinfonietta and other contemporary ensembles. I have proposed that in the budget position. How does the Minister of Culture view such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e606	It is true, as Valle points out, that the budget was initially largely geared towards consolidating, ensuring and continuing the operation of the established institutions, and that there was no room for too much new. We thought it was more important to take care of what we have in the situation we are now in than to establish new arrangements – except for the deaf theater, which we have found room for. The local economy is miserable, says Valle. And it's difficult economics in many places, but we can't make the impression that there's a lot of need in the country. The thing is that we have a very high and increasing private consumption, and I have to say that I think it's bad that you didn't get a majority to take anything from the increasing private consumption and use it for the community. In the case of Oslo Sinfonietta, it is one of the measures that have received project support from the Council of Culture and that, after a few years, fall out of the Council of Culture scheme. And I want to say that the use of tools and also the relationship between project support and operating support we have to look at, so I can't say anything but that we're going through the use of tools. As no one has mentioned the committee comment that goes on forms and bureaucracy, I can also comment on it. I have registered with interest what it says, and I am, of course, concerned that this should be as simple as possible. At the same time, it is a burden to ensure that the money goes to what is the purpose of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e615	I've registered that the Minister of Culture doesn't like it today. She would have preferred to have taken more of the private consumption and used in the community. Does that mean that she doesn't like the cooperation with the Right Party and the Advance Party? She has also stated that she does not like to take off the press support – despite having done so on two occasions. Does that also mean that she does not like to cooperate with the Right Party and the Advance Party? We have also had a debate on functional distribution. The oilfestivities have been proposed to the node institution. The question has been asked whether what is there is quality assurance. How does the Minister of Culture really like to allocate more money to the big cities instead of to the counties and districts that get little government cultural money? And the fourth question is at the Rikspolitische Zentrum. The majority actually spent 8 million. NOK that should have been used by the National Political Centre. They have used it for operations rather than for investment in the project for the Minister of Culture. How does she like it? It is also a cross of thought for me that since the money has now been spent, how has the Minister of Culture planned to finance the Rikspolitische Zentrum in 1999? Is that really gonna make money? And if it doesn't, how does she like it?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e628	I can just say that I like myself very much, I. I like it and have it excellent, but I have the impression that the representative Grethe G. Fossum is in no way lukewarm, for the husband to describe the budget we now have, I have not heard. And it may be related to the disappointment that there was no government change in this budget, because it was obviously the intention of the National Assembly in the Workers' Party and Jagland's intention to make a government shift, with the support of the Right, and to zero out the tax and tax increases with them. Actually, it would have been exciting to see what had happened then, but we decided to take it offensively and get to a setup with the Right and Advance Party. And when the situation was as it was, I'm glad that it happened. As far as functional distribution is concerned, I've registered that there's a majority here who want to convert the Olav parties into node institutions. Of course, I'll follow up on that. I have recorded that it has created some reactions, and I'm not hiding that it might have been appropriate to make a closer review of the consequences of it, but, as I said, a majority is established, and I will of course follow it up. In the case of the Rikspolitische Zentrum on Eidsvoll, it's what I explained instead, so that we've got this into a new track that I think can give a better solution. The rapporteur, the county authorities and the centre have been very constructive. And in the case of the money taken into operation, I have also registered it, but there is enough money left for this to cover the investments that may be needed in 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e637	President! It's an obvious misunderstanding that I'm in a bad mood.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e644	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e647	As rapporteur for the museum chapter last time, I worked a lot with technical and industrial cultural memories. The main reason for my commitment in this area was that I believe we should document the industrialisation in Norway by taking care of some industrial buildings. It was important, therefore, that in 1996 we received grants for the operation of eight such museum facilities above the Ministry of Culture’s budget. The Ministry of the Environment, through the Riksantikvaren, had for several years done a formidable job, together with firefighters, in providing grants and taking care of several installations, in addition to making a laborious selection work on the question of which installations to take care of. In this connection, I refer to the Verne Plan for Technical and Industrial Cultural Memory, which was published by the Riksantikvaren in 1994. There is reason to be happy that we have a rickshaw with an interested and competent staff, which has seen the importance of taking care of a selection of these facilities. They have been important support players for the fires that have also worked with these facilities. If not, probably most of them would have been gone today. The eight facilities included in the Ministry of Culture’s budget are all relatively large facilities that have both required and will require substantial resources for maintenance and operation. Before they got operating resources, most of them were in a phase where they were slightly open to the public. Some of them, such as Sjølingstad Uldvarefabrik, had in the premises related to the factory a small industry, where both the goats and a small knitting factory had been put in place, in addition they had even later started the production of floor fabrics. Such activities are not possible in all these facilities, but the Fetsund Lense Museum in Akershus is, as the Minister of Culture knows, a living museum with many activities. However, the reason I have spoken in this debate is the lack of visibility. One should not put under the chair that not all the municipalities have been equally happy for the old factories. Not everyone thinks they're equally pretty to look at or have any value. I have been in several debates with rapporteurs who would rather have something else, like a house of culture or a place of representation. That is why I am concerned that it must be made visible both in the Ministry of Culture's budget and in the Ministry of the Environment's budget that the history of industrialisation and the working class should also be taken into account. The designation of funds is also important, as the Committee has said in its comments. I am therefore disappointed that these facilities are not mentioned in one word in the budget, and that the committee had to write a letter to the Minister of Culture to get an overview of the situation for the eight facilities. In the letter of reply from the Council of State, it appears that there has been a problem with the funds from the county or municipality in the case of Spillum Dampsag and the herring oil factory Neptune. With my knowledge of these facilities and the problems they've had, this doesn't surprise me. In this regard, I would like to know what is being done on the part of the Ministry to change this. Has there been a dialogue between the Ministry and the county/municipal council on the financial subsidies, or is there just a letter written? After all, the state has spent more than 13 million dollars. kr on Spielum and over 10 mill. kr at Neptune. I mentioned earlier in my article that these facilities need to be made visible, and in this context I show that some of the facilities already have activities that attract the public. I have also learned that both at Nes Jernverk and at the Vestnorsk Industrivstadsmuseum in Tyssedal are the exciting plans ahead. It is therefore important that good forces also help those installations that have problems, such as: Neptune virgin oil factory at Melbu, and not only reduces or stops the grants to the plants. Then the fire-souls that have made it possible to keep such memories disappear. Finally, I would like to refer to a majority comment from the Labour Party and the Right in the Budget-Inst. S. No 2 for 1997-98, where they say: ‘The majority also refer to the principle of the responsibilities of the departments for documentation of their own history and ask for the initiative to be taken for cooperation with the department concerned.’ I would like to hear from the Council of State how this work is going. I know it's not easy. There have been long calls, including: between the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Culture as regards Neptune. Has it loosened, and is there any chance that the job that the ministry has now had a year to do shows results?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e676	The central government has chosen to ensure the operational basis for our cultural institutions, which are cornerstones of Norwegian cultural policy, rather than establishing many new measures. The brakes are also applied to the cultural sector at the investment rate, in line with the Government's fiscal tightening. The 260 museums across the country, which receive state support via state municipalities, receive an increase in the amount of 9 pst. National institutions also receive increased operational support. Many museums have struggled with poor finances in recent years. This increase in transfers will increase the mouse deal and increase the activity level. It is important that children have contact with local culture. Åse Enerstvedt has expressed a challenge for the museum in the book Children, Young People and Museums: ‘Expressions such as rootlessness, historylessness, lack of voscism, and violence mentality are words that characterize the debate about today’s children and young people. The museums should be able to play an active role in building bridges between generations and between past and present. Creating contact between children, young people and adults is a goal that at least cultural history museums should strive for.’ It is important to give young people knowledge of our cultural history. One or two museum visits during nine years of schooling are not sufficient. Children can have great pleasure in getting valuable history from the museum, if the visit is put on their children's premises and at their pace, not on the adults' premises. Giving children and young people cultural experiences and stimulating them to self-activity is important. Holdings that are taught in the first few years of life can become habits that follow a person throughout life, and they can become so self-evident that they are perceived as natural. In negotiations with the Progress Party and the Right, there have been redisposals of 8 million. kr within the cultural frame. As a result, the licenses to the Rikskonserten’s school concert activity have increased, and that is positive. There is much to say for music dissemination to children and young people. The Brazz Brothers also operate an important cultural agency, especially for children and young people, and they now receive a supplement of 500,000 kroner. The purchase scheme for Norwegian phonograms is strengthened by 1 million. kr. It's positive, both to increase access to Norwegian music and to the music industry. Of the Government's pot for special district policy measures, 10 million are set aside for the Ministry of Culture's collective commitment to art and culture throughout the country. The central government's proposal for a 26 million prize. kr to complete the repair and upgrade work of the Norwegian Film AS plant on Jar is approved. This means that the environment for film production in Norway is becoming more segregated. Films and audiovisual productions are important cultural intermediaries, and Norwegian producers have an important role in cultural policy. It is important to strengthen the digestion of Norwegian productions. We're approaching a thousand-year change. I'm glad that, in a tight economic situation, we've managed to achieve such a cultural boost as the proposal to mark the millennium change marks. This is a clear priority for the cultural sector. The working party has different comments on the thousand-year marking. They're proposing to reduce the permissions by another $35 million. kr to the thousand year mark. What the party actually means about the thousand-year mark is a little bit hard to understand. A majority in the Committee, all outside the Workers' Party, have noticed that delegation of power to the Rikskoncerts when it comes to festival support over the Cape. 323 item 78 Miscellaneous fixed measures, may lead to unintended consequences for the Olav Festival Days in Trondheim. According to the guidelines, the Riks Concerts will only support music festivals. This does not capture the width of the Olav Festival days as a festival, including concerts, folk events, exhibitions, courses and family programs. The majority of the Committee argues that the Olav Festival Days should be continued on the basis of the current concept, and suggests that the Olav Festival Days be converted into a node festival. Otherwise, I am happy that the work of establishing a youth centre in Ålesund will continue. On the state budget, it's set of 2 million. kr for this purpose. What exists in the youth architecture of Ålesund is of great value both nationally and internationally, and it is important that we take care of this. A majority in the committee have not found room for increased permissions on the state budget for this, but we have noticed that the Government will continue to work on it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e711	The concept of culture extends widely and accommodates many different activities around the country. No other policy area can experience such commitment and idealism as one does in the cultural sector. A foundation for artistic development will be important. Culture is, for almost all political parties today, an area in which a person wants to invest heavily. However, the political reality is unfortunately such that there are relatively few resources available for measures that are perceived as an important foundation of general everyday well-being. Culture is the source of development and well-being, and the Workers' Party believes that it is important that we aim that everyone, regardless of their social or geographical affiliation, should have access to culture that exercises and as an audience. The voluntary work done here in the country on the cultural side is quite unique. An important challenge is to draw with the positive local forces that exist in our local environments. I think we have to have the ambition to have a fairly large distribution between the states in terms of the distribution of state-owned cultural crowns. It is a fact that today there are relatively large differences in distribution, for example, South-Trandelag gets a total of 80 million. kr, while Buskerud and Møre and Romsdal get 6 million. and $8 million. kr. Last year, the Workers' Party introduced the district opera concept. I would like to stress that this year's budgetary position follows up, where we refer in particular to the efforts made at the Opera in Kristiansund, Steinvikholmen and Ringsacht. The artistically high level of quality represented by these institutions must be continued. I would like to highlight in particular the strong link with the local environments they have in their districts. Opera art is diverse and not just a big-city phenomenon for our capital. Opera art includes all the arts: singing, instrumental music, theatre, drama, dance and forming. So a few words about the Youth Centre. I would like to refer to the last year's budgetary procedure, where one was given a boost to the allocation to the Youth Centre in Ålesund, where one at the same time laid out a template on how this centre should find its place within an existing national institution. There has been political agreement on the bet on such a centre, and I have to say that I see the lookup in the Sunnmørspost today as being directly eye-catching. The fact that serious representatives, a wide-ranging professional group, are characterised as being stupid in Stortinget, I think it is a very strong diet. I have always seen the working group of the Youth Centre and the county and municipal politicians from More and Romesdal as being very tidy. The plan for the Youth Centre is, in my opinion, very well worked out, and I have the impression that the department has meant it. The working party and the county council have fulfilled the requirements of Stortinget, and I would like to ask if the Minister of Culture and the head of the committee from Møre and Romsdal really think otherwise. It is a fact that the cooperation agreement with the Norwegian Architecture Museum has been negotiated. I believe that the handling of this matter by the Progress Party is directly alarming, and I have to refer again to a look-up at the Sunnmørspost today. That's where the representative Sandberg says that the sunmers are Greek, and to draw it into this context, I have to say, falls on his own unfairness. Harald T. Nesvik, who is just representing the Progress Party from More and Romesdal, has gone out very strongly in the harvest and said that his party has entered the whole sum of this center. And in the election campaign, it was unknown that a bourgeois government guaranteed such a centre, but it was. But through the statements to both Sandberg and Helleland today, we may have got the truth, and I think there's reason to ask whether this is not just a tactical diversion to cover over the gigantic broken promises of financing this project. I expect the committee leader to clarify his view of it. Furthermore, I would like to refer to proposal No. 20 which the Labour Party has presented today, and which I expect can be supported by the Centre Parties and the Right and the Advance Party, just to clear up in terms of the mildly outrageous posting we saw today in the Sunnmørspost.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e739	Let me first of all commend the Minister of Culture for the exemplary work she has done in following up the priorities of the majority of the year – we appreciate that! For the right, the adjustments we have made in this year's budget have mainly had overall national targets, although many of our institutions are struggling to get the money to reach ambitious targets. The representative of Trond Helleland has also presented the background to most of the priorities we have set out in this year's budget. From Museums-Norway it is reported of great activity and many plans. Now it is urgent to get the museum message for treatment in Stortinget. It is important that we now have an overall overview of both the actual state of the museum kingdom, the investments planned where, and the operational economy of planned projects. Now, at the brink of our century, awareness of the fact that we are about to lay behind a very important epoch in our country's history, and the desire to preserve full memories of our century's development, is urgent all over the country. Only a comprehensive museum message can give us the opportunity to go to the depths of this, to make the necessary priorities within a realistic framework, for the desire to build new ones, must not delay our obligation to care for what we have. I refer to the description given by the representative Trond Helleland of what is to be the Oslo department of the National Library. It is a paradox that yesterday's newspapers have much better storage conditions than irreplaceable historical documents. It is a national responsibility to maintain historical documents in a sound manner. Anyone who has visited the magazines where our old written cultural treasures are kept has trouble sleeping before you know that the plans for a new National Library Department in Oslo are in place. I said in a previous post today that language is power. Language is also culture, and through the language we communicate, among other things. history and culture to others. In our cultural history, the fight for the right to own language will have an important place. When our young nation was to establish its own national and cultural consciousness, the struggle for language became a political issue. Luckily, we have put the fight behind us, the right to choose between the two official Norwegian languages is statutory. But we do not show our language the respect that we have the use of oral Norwegian as a schooling profession. We're correcting nine-times for students who use English grammar errors, while Norwegian grammar errors pass uninvited. I don't think any other cultural nations show such a negligentness for the use and development of their own language. But then we also see the suspicious results. From colleges and universities, complaints are being made that the ability to use your own language is becoming increasingly poor. The language usage on radio and TV has become so poor that listeners and viewers protest. Norwegian children are not encouraged to develop ear for their own language. In my view, this is not just a challenge for the school community; it is a cultural challenge. The Norwegian target group of new entrants is to monitor and monitor the development of new languages, and until then they have received significant contributions from the state budget for several years. Now we believe that the generally negative development of our country means that the spokespersons and spokesmen of the largest language group will also receive support for their work on the State budget. Now that they're 100 next year, it's an appropriate gesture to show them that for the first time they're going to have room in the budget – a support for the Reichsmålbundet. As a culture committee, we can no longer be passive spectators to the effect that the ability to actively use the language is getting worse. We have two Norwegian linguistic minorities, for which, too, language is an important identity and cultural factor. The linguistic abuses that unite and women in our century have been subjected to, we are now in the process of rectifying. The work of the Sami language has come a long way; the work of the female language is in its beginning. On last year's budget, Stortinget gave the first signal that we were willing to take a state responsibility for women's language and culture, this year we go on. What that means for the cultural life of Finnmark is difficult to describe. What that will in the long run give us all in the form of increased knowledge of Finnmark's history, remains to be seen. But it is a fact that the general knowledge of Finnmark's total culture and history is poor among the people most. Others are not to wait when history so far has belonged only to the ethnic Northmen, described for most of the people who do not have their roots in Finnmark, but who have had their residence there by virtue of their office. Finnmark has always been populated by three ethnic groups that are and have been about the same size in this area. By recognising Sami and female, we will in the long term gain a deeper knowledge of this part of Norway, culture here in the north, armbeat for development on our own premises, and local creativity is stimulated. In the long term, this will also be a very valuable contribution to the overall Norwegian cultural image. And we are pleased with the effort that has been made on this through this year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e761	It is quite strange that the Media Council rarely flaunts interest in media policy, in addition to the unwarranted cuts to make a deal with the Progress Party and the Right, and so let the right parties shape the policy. Our society has never before been so massive and powerfully influenced by the outside world. Much of this influence gives us important impulses that enrich our society both economically, politically and culturally. But the strong cultural pressure on Norway now demands at the same time that we strengthen our commitment to making ourselves aware of our own language and our own culture. The media are the only cultural institutions that reach almost every day. The media are therefore the most important front line in developing Norwegian democracy, raising awareness of Norwegian culture and writing culture, and creating belonging and identity. It is an important quality that there are local viewers in almost all Norwegian communities. It is an important quality that there are newspapers with different values. The strong position of newspapers also leads to the fact that most people are well informed about most key political issues both locally and nationally in our country. Television and radio are important channels for debate, but cannot replace the news work, the social critique and the debate that is spread through the newspapers. At the same time, it is a cultural policy task to ensure that the Norwegian writing language is used by all of us. Studies show that it is the newspapers that ensure that most of us read every day. This at the same time ensures that we keep our reading skills up-to-date. In countries where the general public receives their social information from television, reading skills fail, and many become functional illiterates. I therefore believe that it is an important task of democracy and culture to be conscious of the press policy. The government, talking about values, immediately reduced the press support by 15 million. kr, it now reduces by 35 million. kr, and as was said earlier in the debate today, if it keeps the same pace, it can manage to get it completely out during this period. At the same time, in the autumn, it created uncertainty about VAT exemptions and the country’s rules on advertising, while at the same time providing for a change of the avisporto – all without any prior notice. Instead, a media council should dialogue with the press's organisations on stable and forward-looking framework conditions, so that the media can develop as social and cultural institutions and ensure a wide range of media with different values and geographical locations, take initiatives to strengthen the Norwegian writing language, in cooperation with newspapers and other writing institutions, reject VAT on newspapers and books in principle, do so in common with the United Kingdom's Tony Blair, who is also often used, not least by the Prime Minister, so that zero VAT is removed from the EU and the EEA develop a security guarantee for a predictable production support system further develop the democratically justified advertising policy of the state to put the Competition Authority into action to look at competition and the dwindling of some smaller newspapers outside our country. Finally, TV2 has waited a long time and should be informed of the conditions for extending its concession as soon as possible. The size should at the same time maintain the requirement for location in Bergen in order to ensure that there is one national medium that has a different news perspective than the Oslo-based national media.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e801	I understand that the government party is tired of hearing that they have promised more than they have managed to hold, much more. For us in the Workers' Party, who constantly met with headlines about all the representatives of the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, promised to support and propose to grant money, it must nevertheless be allowed to remind the parties and the voters about this. But the point of this is, above all, the future: that we all have to stand for a responsible policy and context between what we promise, and what we do in position as well as in opposition. In this context, the media has a responsibility. They may, with their journalism, call for both responsibility and populism — responsibilities by creating a sense of well-being and coherence without regard to position and populism by focusing on increasing promises to individuals and on regional actions without regard to health. In this context, the press support has a function, the press support that was established at the Central Party's initiative 30 years ago, and which we in the Labour Party still have a good foundation. In 1992-1993, the Labour Party and SV, together with the Government Party, agreed on the following objectives for the press policy: to maintain a high level of newspaper consumption to publish newspapers in most places on the basis that national newspapers can be published with a broad range of views on local newspaper advertising in as many places as possible. The press support is a tool in this context, a tool that the government councils have supported and protected until it entered the government offices itself. This support was reduced by 15 million. DKK in 1998 and reduced by 35 million. kr, against strong resistance from the Workers' Party. Press support shall ensure breadth and diversity in the newspaper sector, including: by supporting paragraphs The two papers over the whole country. I experienced going over from having two to having a newspaper when I bid in Arendal a few years ago. It was a depressing experience, and it was clear that freedom of speech was free. The remaining newspaper had clear sympathies in a political direction. At the end of the competition, the sympathy became clearer, and the newspaper did not take responsibility for securing the breadth of the newfound picture and the social debate. This is how I am afraid it can also be in Stavanger after the cultural budget has been approved today. In Stavanger we have a large regional newspaper that almost everyone subscribes to, which takes the brunt of the advertising revenue — in fact more than the entire budget of No. 2-news, which have resources to go in width and depth. Stavanger Aftenblad is a good newspaper in that way. However - perhaps most of all now that this paper has evolved more strongly towards a government body - we need an alternative, an alternative with a different output, a different focus and other angles. It sees freedom of expression, it strengthens social inclusion and debate. Hi, Rogaland's newspaper is the alternative. They don't have a lot of advertising revenue, they don't have a lot of staff, and they have to focus their efforts on both geography and target groups. Nevertheless, they balance on a cutting edge with today’s press support. With reduction, they will quickly get red numbers. Newspaper has been through extensive rationalization, and it's little to wonder if they should be an eel. All in all, this balances in my opinion by the fact that the papers are so heavily focused on the specialty, among other things. on sport and motor, but people who are more interested in politics and social issues are assessing their subscription. I hope that this doesn't happen, but I have to admit that the majority here today are pressing in that direction, a direction that reduces their freedom of expression in the Stavanger area. That's not what we in the Working Party want. The last thing I want to point out is that it is quite difficult to run newspapers with such unstable framework conditions. I suggested that the Council of State should at least allocate the money paid as early as possible to the new year, and that they would like to screen the money, among other things. The nation does not win over its freedom of speech in the districts. It's a shame to register that the government has not found room for better Rogaland Theatre. The efforts of those added have been unlikely in locals that in no way satisfy reasonable demands, and it begins to rush. Reduced promises will lead to the project at Rogaland Theatre being wasted in time. I think I hear how the tone would have been if the center part had been in opposition. Nevertheless, I now just have to remind the Council of State of her pronounced understanding of the situation and the will to do something. For Rogaland Theatre and projects in the same situation, it only helps when will is followed by action in the form of promises for the purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e836	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e839	In the spring, State Consultant came with his own report on rock. There were conclusions in the one that has not yet been followed up. I want to highlight the Norwegian network as a successful scheme that ensures Norwegian practitioners the opportunity to play without entailing unreasonable costs for them. On the other hand, it has been very difficult to operate some of these locations. At the same time, Statskonsult’s recommendation was to reduce the number of grant schemes. The majority therefore ask for a proposal on how we can strengthen the Norwegian network through operations to ensure the different locations we have equipped, and thus also follow up the State Consultant's report. No one went past the fact that there were strong reactions to the award of support for the music festivals this year. In order to better ensure the quality of the allocation, the majority have opted for a broader composition of the awarding body. It should also give a signal that we do not want these funds to be used to overwhelm foreign artists. However, during the course of the day, I have received several impressions that what happened last year was not the way it was produced. Among other things, I have come to understand that the sample that was set out on the basis of criteria and leadership provided by the Stortinget, initially had a different assessment of the distribution of aid than the result. It has surprised me, as we got the impression that it was the assignment committee's setting that was discussed, and not an adjusted setting. Thus, the criticism must be addressed to others other than it remained in ours. Where it's to be addressed, I don't know yet, but my intention is to figure it out. When we introduced funds for rocking, the big discussion was that we were now red tape, especially about the creation of Total Norsk Rock. Today, when we want to debureaucratise and therefore also follow up the conclusions of the State Consultant, it also creates discussion. A dispute about money is not a good basis for developing a genre, and State Consultant just pointed it out. Nor is it the case that the Norwegian network or others should lose their support — on the contrary. I would like to stress that the majority will not take a single penny from the Norwegian Rocke Association, and the ministry's changes to the music workshop system are supported by a unanimous committee. This will also ensure the further development of the Norway network. Now it is possible that the majority have entered the wrong numbers in the comments, but I expect that the department will have discovered that. Now I've been walking around for a couple of days and wondering how in the world there can be a spread of the impression that the majority believes the opposite of what we're really saying and writing, and I have a work going on to figure that out. I have registered that even the committee leader used this in a line. Now I'm not going to wonder too much about how such an impression can spread, but I see that it can serve certain purposes, not least in this debate. Finally, I would like to underline the current situation of Norwegian artists, with a sharp decline in record sales. There's enough reason to think that this is a permanent change because of the ability to copy that new technology gives. That is why the majority will start a process of looking at fund and remuneration schemes that can help us stay with music professionals in the future. There is also a background to the observation by the majority that the practitioners must be involved in the award process, so that political progress is made as a result of the appointment to benefit the practitioners.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e852	The representative Karita Bekkemelm Orheim challenges me at the Youth Centre. I want to refer to the post I had, where I just spoke about it and pointed to the funds that are devoted to further work on setting up the centre, which we have also mentioned in the comments in the setting. So there shouldn't be anything that was unclear about it. The Youth Centre working group has done a great job, also by organising an international seminar on youth architecture, a great seminar that attended and put this in focus with the youth centre also internationally. So to proposal No. 20, from the Workers' Party. It says so.\t\t You can change the settings of the ‘The Government is asking the Government to work actively with the Møre and Romsdal County Municipality with the Youth Centre in Ålesund and with the Bergen Municipality on the National Scene in Bergen, to complete these thousand-year projects.’ As far as I have registered, Hordaland County has not given priority to a thousand-year-old city, and in the proposal one indicates that one should negotiate with the municipality of Bergen. But there must be negotiations with both the county and the municipality, and there will be a waiting for the priority to come from the county. I want to encourage the Workers' Party to turn this into a transmission proposal. We have clearly stated in the setting, and also in the budget department, that one will continue to work on this, so there is no need beyond that to instruct the Government about what we have already said that we will be doing.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e864	It is true that the opposition likes to promote the areas we disagree with, and argues for their own view, rather in the face of criticism from the other party. That is the way it should be in a democracy. Any government and any Council of State shall have a corrective action. However, from time to time it may be appropriate to say something positive about each other, not just because it is soon Christmas. I would like to highlight the positive aspects of the debate by the fact that the museum sector has been protected from the cutting knife and actually receives a real increase in appropriations. 9 pst. increase will be good in a cultural area where the tasks are large and numerous. The Minister for Culture deserves praise for this priority. Among the museums, Stortinget has repeatedly paid special attention to the technical-industrial cultural memories, as well as this time. A unanimous committee refers to these cultural memories and assumes that they too will receive an increase in the allocation of 9 pst. and there will be earmarked funds as before. I take it as a matter of course that the department follows the committee. I would also ask the Minister of Culture to consider whether these museums should now be accommodated with their own publicity and their own place in the budget. They deserve the fires that have stood behind and ensured that today we have at all such valuable cultural memories as this is about. They each represent in their own way a part of our story that we are neither allowed nor able to afford to go in the forgetbook. After just a short period of time in the cultural committee, I would like to stress the importance of the announced museum message being as thorough as possible. Among other things, the status of the various museums must be carefully assessed. It is important that the message draws up a museum policy that we can live with for a few years, and that the thousands of fires around the country can deal with. Because there is not a small municipality in this country with respect for itself that has not at least three-four museums within its borders, and very many of them naturally want a place on the state budget. There's at all a tremendous creativity in this area across the whole country. In my view, the Ministry faces a very difficult, but nevertheless important, sorting task in the preparation of the notification. I would like to point out the importance of the Ministry addressing the issue of empowerment in this sector as well. I also think it's a lot to get through a conscious cooperation between the many similar museums, where you can draw on each other's experience and competence. There is every reason to wish the ministry good luck with the work. Work is urgent, but the quality of work is most important. We don't have any work done in the hurry. Forgive me that I also make a comment on a matter from my own county, namely the one dealing with the establishment of a music theatre in Bodø. The Committee minus the Progress Party requests that it: ‘estimated whether this project may be included in the future operating model for the distribution of opera’. It will undoubtedly help to consolidate the understanding of opera as an only start in this part of the country. I hope the department will take a good look at this and follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e884	I noticed that the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt was not happy that there was nothing more going on at the Rogaland Theatre. I then assume that the representative Starrfelt has not read what is in the comments, and therefore has not noticed that there is no world's things more from the Labour Party than it says from a collective committee. We are well aware that the situation is very poor there, including the working environment, not least. a 1919 workshop, which is now to occupy three scenes instead of one, and is from a time when environmental requirements are quite different. We know that it has been working on this for many years, and that there is work going on to improve this. At the same time, expenditure has increased from 22 million. kr to more than fifty-five mills. kr. One must be in control of this. In the supplementary proposal, one will see that one will come back to this spring 1999, and a joint committee suggests that the Government will return to the construction business when managing next year's government budget. Then I think it's quite strange that one comes here with criticism, when one doesn't have any better suggestions himself. I think you have to start reading what's written, if you're going to criticize. I hope this will work out next year. I know that Rogaland Theatre understands this and is content with it in the situation that it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e895	I feel the need to make a clarification following the statements made by the representative, Bekkelem Orheim. Based on something that has stood in the Sunnmørspost today, it would be like that I have stood up and called the Sunnmøringen both greedy and “Greek”. I find nothing in the article that indicates that the undersigned has said something like this or similar. I have a long way from the "Greek" sunmers, but it may be that I have suggested that they are a little bad to swim – the one who understands what's in it! In the case of the Youth Centre, it is a bit polite that those who were initially opposed, among other things. The representative, Bekkemelm Orheim, has now signed up for the fight to be at the forefront of the Youth Centre. The reason why we are opposed to proposal No. 20, we see that our majority comments cover the interests of the Youth Centre. Funding has also been made available to the Youth Centre for 1999. What we want to clarify more is the question of funding. There was something vague in the last meeting we had, and we would have a better explanation of that. And as stated in the majority remarks, we want it to be in place when the 2000 budget is to be examined. Nor have I been given any clarification in relation to the majority proposal on press support. The undersigned also sees that in the joint comments we cover what is referred to in the proposal. I would recommend the representative Lånke to draw up the proposal, if it does not come to a better conclusion as to what is the intention of the proposal. I have asked both the representative Lånke and the Council of State what they put in ‘political governance of the media’. I haven't been given any clarification about it, and I'm terribly afraid, from the last Council of State said here, that there are some newspapers that are now to be pointed out. This is not in the interest of the Progress Party, for there is too much political governance.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e904	I had actually asked for the word just to give a brief explanation of vote on what is left of proposals. But since the representative Sandberg challenges me, I want to repeat what I have said, that on our part it is primarily to do to maintain support for newspapers to ensure diversity, freedom of expression and the consumption of newspapers. I can't see that's the same thing as driving political governance. I mentioned the word objective criteria, and that is what we are together with the Progress Party and the Right, in the joint comments of the Government, which are to be used as the basis for the device on the press stand in the future after the cut. I do not intend to draw the proposal that I have made on behalf of the four parties. It was a bit sudden, but I would like to urge the representative Sandberg to take it positively when I say that it is not a desire to run the political control of the newspapers. As an explanation of vote on this proposal, I would just like to refer to what I myself said earlier today, and to the comments that we are together on in the vote, as well as our minority comments, which we had the understanding that we could put next to the majority remarks in the chapter under the press support. Otherwise just cards to two other suggestions, which we have not given notice of. It concerns proposal No. 21, from Grethe Fossum on behalf of the Workers' Party, which I would also ask the representative Fossum to convert into a transmission proposal. If not, we will have to vote against it. The reason is, in particular, that there is a ramification of several states, and we have difficulty in proving all that is in this proposal, while it is also unnecessary for us to instruct the Government at this point. As regards the last proposal, paragraph: 22 I will advise the representatives of the Christian People's Party to vote against that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e920	The representative, Bekkelem Orheim, was shocked by today's look-up at the Sunnmørsposten. After reading carefully what I myself am quoting, I have no problem standing in for what is written there. But I expect the representative Orheim to be out to confirm that the Right still supports the establishment of a youth centre. There's no doubt about it. We have written a note on this that says clearly that the government must come back with this project at the next year's government budget. What happened to the meeting we had with the Youth Centre was that they presented their plans, plans that we had already been presented for. We did not get any further clarification of the funding, and we received a very clear recommendation that either it had to be granted 6-8-9 million. kr, otherwise it could be the same. We're doing a lot of different things in the cultural committee, but we haven't started the trunking yet. It was impossible to get those funds this year. I think the Labour Party also sees that, because they haven't been able to find room for it either. But to the Youth Centre, I would like to say that it is a very positive project that I hope can be realised, but then it is probably also necessary for the Government to go into the project and get it into the state budget. Otherwise, there are a lot of other good projects that you could of course also mention. As a small explanation of vote on the two cultural proposals from the Workers' Party, I would like to say that I support what Mr Lånke has said. We're asking for a transmission. If not, we must unfortunately vote against it, although of course it pains me greatly, as a representative from Buskerud, to say that we will not vote for Busherud to be given special priority among other states. But in this context, I can mention that Buskerud has various projects in progress. We have a project in Drammen called Regional Cultural Workshop, which is developing positively. We have a museum project at Labro in Kongsberg that has an absolute potential, and is about to put in place a number of plans that are positive and that are already in the state budget with project funds. This project at Labro we also hope to be able to come back to next year, and I expect that the Workers' Party, which has now so well mentioned Buskerud several times, will be able to pull the load when we are going to deal with this until next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e930	I have received a number of questions that I will try to answer. First to the representative Sandberg, that there should be political control of the cut on the press support. Let me make it clear that there are three categories of newspapers that get press support. It's the nationwide opinion papers, no. The 2 newspapers and the local newspapers. Of course, amendments to regulations that we will look at until January-February will also be directed towards groups of newspapers and not individual newspapers. Otherwise, I would like to say that in the case of the Financial Newspaper, there has been a case that we have won in the Law of Law, and that the Royal Highness Committee has now rejected. So to Alstad and his articles about rock. That post is not quite clear to me. But let me make it clear that the State Consultant has not proposed to reduce the number of grant schemes in a way other than that they propose to merge all the schemes and add them to the Rikskoncerts. We have not agreed to merge them, because they are different, have different target groups, and this is also in my opinion to follow up the Storting intention. It is not Norway’s network that is strengthened if one is to follow up on the note. There is essentially one actor, namely GramArt, who will receive a reinforcement after this. However, I understood the representative Alstad that the intention was to improve the arrangements. What we've seen now is that the reactions to the comments are quite strong in the environment. But I believe that we can work on this from the department to get good arrangements, both for the entire Norwegian rock community and also for the composition of a distribution committee, to take account of the practitioners. But I can't imagine anyone thinking that all the practitioners should be represented in a distribution committee. It will be a rather hopeless matter to make decisions, I think. It's important to build on the good experience that we also have. But I would like to come back to the majority who are behind this committee comment to see if we can figure out what was actually meant by it, and how we can make arrangements that are satisfactory. As for Grete Knudsen's posts on the press, the importance of language, democratic development and questions related to TV2, I would say that TV2 has asked for negotiations on extended concession, and of course we will answer that in the new year. As regards dialogue with the press, I can inform you that after the big cut became known, we immediately contacted the two organisations and have had conversations with them. I agree with the importance and the need to have more stability and long-termity in the framework conditions. Otherwise I have to ask again to answer two other questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e947	The President has noted that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e950	I have to take the floor to clear up a misunderstanding that Per Sandberg was guilty of in his previous post. The representative Per Sandberg has clearly misunderstood my commitment and position with regard to the Youth Centre. I have never opposed the establishment of a youth centre in Ålesund. What I haven't done is go strongly on the track and guarantee millions to such a center. I have instead tried to work constructively within my own party to get funds and to get the majority in place. One cannot magic, says the representative Trond Helleland, and it does not expect the Workers' Party either. But the issue of the Youth Centre is a demonstration of the difference between life and learning from the centre, the Progress Party and the Right. One thing was to campaign in opposition. Something else is now that economic reality has finally become more common in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e957	I have another question that I hope the Council of State can answer in the next round. As far as I've understood it in the media, the Council of State has stated that she wants to shield the meaningful newspapers and locals from squabbling. Is that so to understand that no. The two newspapers out in the country are the ones that are going to take the whole cut? There must be an important message for them to get. Then to the representative of Unn Aarrestad. I've read the budget. I know that the frame is reduced relative to what was the government's proposal. In addition, there is a reduced pressure support of 35 million. kr. That is, in the Labour Party, we were also unable to find room for more money for Rogaland Theatre. But I am pleased that we have agreed that something has to happen, and that the Council of State has previously, in reply to a written question, expressed its satisfaction and positive opinion that something has to be done for Rogaland Theatre, because there is a pain limit going on.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e964	Let me answer the last one first. I have not said that you should protect meaningful newspapers and local newspapers. On the contrary, I have said that this is a problematic cut, and that everyone will notice it. But we have to look at the distribution and go through the regulations. We will do that in such a way that it is clear in January-February. When it comes to Rogaland Theatre, I'm impressed with this theater, and I see an absolute need to do something there. But it's also a construction thing that has a somewhat striking history, and that I see the need to go deeper into, and that I've promised to come back to Stortinget with it for spring. As far as the Youth Centre is concerned, it has been said enough about it. We will also continue to work on that. I have to say that I do not understand the wording that was about me in the Sunnmørspost on that matter. I didn't grab in at all and stopped it, but just specified what were the actual conditions. To Grete Fossli, who asked about Spillum and Neptune, I would like to say in a letter from me to the Committee dated 19 November that six of the eight technical-industrial cultural memories in 1997 and 1998 have been given an increase in the public operating grant that demonstrates local-regional willingness to follow up the state initiative. The exceptions here are Spielum and Neptune. It will be clarified in 1999 in the letters of award that the county councils concerned will have to follow up on this with appropriations from their side as well. Otherwise, because this may be my last post, I will conclude with something I am very happy about, namely the agreement we have reached on the Oslo New Theatre and a transfer of the Oslo New Theatre with the Central Theatre and the Doll Theatre in the Frogner Park to the Municipality of Oslo, and similarly that the Torshov Theatre via the National Theatre becomes state responsibility. I'm very happy that we've got it done. I think it'll be more tidy and better for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e977	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1301]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e991	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1330]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e1005	I will be brief and just promote the proposal of the Progress Party that is in the position. I hope to get a little more excitement than what's real, based on the debate we had today, and the concerns for the children's and youth organisations, especially the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e1010	Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestion he referred to. [[Footing, see page 1331]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e1024	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1333]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e1038	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1333]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e1052	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1334]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e1069	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1334]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e1083	The debate on the main issues in the 1999 government budget was held in Stortinget on 30 November and on the basis of which the budget is based. S. No Then 6, be added. Therefore, there are only a few areas I want to mention in this article. First, I'm going to point out the central and right sections of the section dealing with GIEK. It is important that when the draft authorisation is proposed to be withdrawn, it must not result in a system that is unnecessarily cumbersome to administer. The same can be said of the simplifications made under the SUS/Baltic arrangement. GIEK also manages offer guarantee schemes, which have much to say for small export companies. I would like to ask the State Councils of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs to assess the way in which such a system can be maintained. The other area I want to mention, relates to cap. 5605 Interest on the treasury's cash receipts and other receivables. In the comments from the center section, an incurrency statement indicates that we are proposing a percentage of mortgage loans to state sponsors. This is not correct. We're not proposing a percentage. The percentage is determined by the Ministry in accordance with the main tariff agreement between the acceding countries. I also refer to the debate earlier today in the management of the Ministry of Labour and Administration budget, where this was the subject. As case spokesman for the action. In this context, I would like to briefly point out to the State Petroleum Fund that there is a broad political consensus that it is important for the development of our society that the state budget can be made the most possible irrespective of the revenue from the petroleum industry. The oil price has recently been very low, and although there is no basis for changing the state budget for 1999, I think it is important that the Government and the Ministry of Finance follow developments and, if necessary, come back to the Storting if necessary. With this I will recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e1100	The reorganisations in the customs tariff have so far been successful. New organisational structures have been introduced in all districts. These reorganisations have led to a reduction in the number of managers by about 50 people. Control tasks have been strengthened. In a brief explanation, the Ministry now aimed at bringing together Eastfold customs districts with Hedmark and Oppland. Here, on questions from the Committee, we have become aware that Fredrikstad would become the new common customs office. On the other side of Oslofjord, the question of joining the Buskerud customs district with Vestold and Telemark was raised again. In previous proposals Drammen was provided to become the new common customs office there. Now it is not concluded on that side of the fjord. Further assessments of the need for structural changes shall also be carried out there. Similarly, the majority of the Committee assumes that the merger of Eastfold, Hedmark and Uppland customs territories is carried out. It's especially the distances in this boundary area that it's focused on. In all the districts concerned, there is uncertainty about the appropriateness of further structural changes. For this reason, it will be essential to consult all relevant interest groups in relation to the tasks of customs administrations, i.e. not only the internal organisations and the management of the departments, but also the stakeholder organisations of the user groups, such as the NHO and the LO, and the relevant municipalities and county municipalities. There is therefore a need for a thorough review as a background to the challenges that many feel that new mergers, structural changes, will bring. Then we're going to have to wait for the conclusions that this investigation will lead to. If these investigations were to lead to that being necessary, I would assume that the matter would be on the Stortinges agenda on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e1113	As a result of the examination of the budget's framework areas, which were adopted with the subsidiary support of the Progress Party and the Right, the main proposals of the Progress Party also fell within the framework of the areas we are dealing with tonight. Therefore, the Progress Party will subsidize proposals for the allocation of Framework Areas 21, 22, 90 and the State Petroleum Fund, although we had different primary proposals for individual chapters and items. A robust number of committees asks the Ministry to reconsider whether merging Eastfold customs districts with Hedmark and Uppland customs districts will bring the desired economic and efficiency gains. The Advance Party assumes that the Government will return to Stortinget with this matter. The Progress Party has proposed to evaluate the Housing Loan Scheme for State Employees, and wishes the Government to promote this as a matter of its own before considering the State budget for the year 2000. Unfortunately, we are all alone in this proposal. Furthermore, we have proposed to evaluate the Husbank and its role as government loan intermediary. We have no support for this either. On the other hand, we are pleased that there is a majority in place to convert the Municipal Bank into a limited liability company. I bring this up with the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e1126	Per Erik Monsen has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e1129	I would like to address the suggestions that SV has made in the setting. The proposals are essentially about how to spend our wealth, i.e. money on books, not on more use of money, but what it's tricked and right to save, and what it's tricked and right to invest in. We are pointing to the environment and energy sector. It will be central, both because, of course, we have an environmental responsibility as a rich nation and as a major consumer of resources, and because it would be very smart of Norway as a nation to secure a ticket to some of the most forward-looking industries, namely what goes on in renewable energy sources and environmental technologies. We have therefore put forward proposals for strengthening different schemes, and we are also promoting those proposals today. We also have a proposal that goes to the House Bank. We want the House Bank to be further strengthened in relation to what has been the case now, especially on the loan side. You can look at the promise that your mother-in-law has received this year. That's good, but that's not enough. There's definitely a lot more to be done. We now probably have the cheapest housing policy in Western Europe, but we must not allow it to be too cheap. The market cannot solve all tasks in the housing sector. Housing is a well-being that everyone is entitled to, and it takes a long time to build it up, so that it can stand a little stronger both for the needs of society, and not least for the individual, so that they are not so strongly affected by the market fluctuations that we now see, with high interest rates and very high prices. That is why the state must strengthen the Husbank. And the House Bank must be strengthened as a general bank and not as a selective loan bank, not as a so-called first-home bank. This is important, because more and more people are having trouble getting a place to live. There are many people who don't even have a place to live, and that's why we want to add funds here. Later this year, the majority will deal with several issues, including: a large-scale report on housing for young and disadvantaged people, in which case it is very important that the House Bank has a framework to follow up on this important area, including: develop a non-profit rental sector to solve the problems on this side. We have also put forward proposals for the transfer of funds into the SND from the low-risk scheme and into the risk-loan scheme. We do that because there is the greatest shortage of risk capital, and it is more important to contribute to this than to offer the low-risk scheme. It has a greater role to play when the offer of ordinary loan capital is small. It's not now, except in some areas of the country. And if the low-risk scheme was going to be used there, as an important scheme where there was no loan offer, or as an important competitive element where there were few other financial institutions, this must have been a district-based scheme. It's not. This is a nationwide arrangement. This is why we would rather strengthen the mechanisms that have been put in place both to take greater risks – businesses need them – and are the most district-oriented. Finally, I should like to give an example of the fact that this government has a high profile of district policy and also of coordination, perhaps not fully integrated into the Ministry of Finance and Customs. The representative Dalheim from the Workers' Party was involved in the same matter in place. It is a proposal for the centralisation of posts and mergers of customs districts. If you're going to have a policy to keep jobs outside the press areas, you're going to have to have a job no. 1 is to make sure that the state's own offices do not centralize without a very good reason. The government has wanted to have a high profile on such matters, and they have, among other things, submitted another proposition, St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 6 on the coordination and partial delocalisation of the central management of agricultural policy instruments. We're going to support this, but you're going to spend several hundred million dollars moving jobs out of central areas. We believe that the Ministry of Finance needs to be able to justify centralisation decisions in its own establishments much better than they have now. I want to refer to what the Government's seas say in this proposition: ‘Member States must take the lead in decentralising their activities. ... Public activities have contributed to the creation of creative environments and the introduction of competences that have contributed to the positive development of economically poor regions of the country. Information technology has helped to reduce remote interference and create new opportunities for decentralisation of State activities.’» This is in the middle of the flash for what is happening to the customs office, and it should be a very good argument for the Minister of Finance when he goes back to the Ministry of Finance and takes up this matter. I expect this matter to go a little way past the district policy new areas in which the government took up, and I ask that we look again at the important coordination tasks that I understand the government has seen needed, but which may not have completely reached all the departments, that we take a new revolution on this and get the agencies to put such assessments into all matters, because it helps little to pursue district policy with one hand if the other hand centralises. I am pleased that the committee has taken up the matter and sent it back. If the Ministry finds that they will request that the changes be implemented, I would like to ask that the matter be referred to the Stortinget on behalf of the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e1149	Karin Andersen has taken up the suggestions she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e1152	In the case of the Municipal Bank, the Government of the National Budget writes that they are working on finding out more alternatives to the future organisation of the Municipal Bank. We in the Workers' Party think that's good. We understand that. We think it is necessary to look at the form of organisation that serves the future of the Municipal Bank. We ourselves have been open to discuss this, and I myself have suggested looking at possible organisational solutions between the Kommunalbanken and the Postbank. We therefore agree with the Government, but we note that it is not the central parties in the Stortinget, because while we had the budget for consideration in the committee, there was a proposal from the central parties that one should turn the Municipal Bank into a limited company – before the Government has completed its assessments. And when we ask the reason for that, how can they suddenly think about it, before the government, which has said that they need to figure this out, can come up with anything, is essentially the only answer we get that they need the 250 million. kr for which they are now to drain the basic fund. There is reason to note that this proposal was presented as the adjusted budget lines of the central parties, i.e. before any conciliation was concluded with the Right and the Labour Party. And for the sake of order: it was also before the Workers' Party had its national meeting, so in this case they can't use the Workers' Party's national meeting as a reason for a new line, as has been done in the various budget debates that we've had in the last few days. It was an invention from the center – obviously to free in the direction of the Right and the Advance Party. When we ask the Minister of Finance whether such a company should have a share capital, it is confirmed that it is correct. They're going to have $660 million. kr in share capital, but we do not receive a response from the Ministry of Finance about where the money is to be taken from. No, we get an answer that there are movements below the 90s, so that the money they can get from draining the fund in the Municipal Bank, is going to be used to balance the budget, without any investigation, without the proposals that are necessary to realize that transformation. This is reflected in the series of strange budgetary processes that have been carried out by the government parties, such as: is composed of a dividend rate of 866, in some companies under the Ministry of Agriculture, it is 5 million. NOK 3 million in profit. kr, it merges into the sequence of cuts at the cross post without any reason why you can do it, and it merges into the sequence of cut suggestions from the center parties where it comes with a text that says that there can be too little money here – and if it gets too little, you get to discuss it and fill it up later this year. It's said a lot strange about this government, and there's a lot to say about this government, but at least no one's going to say that they're thorough in the preparations they're making.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e1165	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 1334]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e1173	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e1179	A total of 25 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1, 8, 12 and 13, by Grethe G. Fossum, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, 2, 4 and 18-25, by Grethe G. Fossum, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 3, 5-7, 9-11 and 14-16, by Mr Ågot Valle, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 17, from Ola T. Loan on behalf of the Advance Party, Christian People's Party, Right and Center Party The President noted that proposal No. 20 has been amended and the last sentence is deleted. The floor has been asked for explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e1199	Proposal No. 17 I recommend the members of the Workers' Party to vote against. Then there have been heartfelt calls for various of the Workers' Party's proposals to be turned into transmission proposals. Proposal No. 18 we want to vote over. Proposal No. 19 we are asking for a transmission proposal. As regards Proposal No: 20, we have been urged to turn this into a transmission proposal, without any assurance that we will work actively for what we are proposing here, so we just don't want to turn that into a transmission proposal. The same applies to proposal No. 21st Last@item: inlistbox Proposal No. 22 we are asked to be turned into a transmission proposal. The same applies to proposal No. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox Proposals Nos. 24 and 25 we ask that it be voted over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e1206	First to our vote on the various budgetary frameworks. In the case of Frame 1, we stand with the Workers' Party. In the case of Framework 2, we just want to vote in favour of our own proposal for a framework and against the other two. When our proposal for Framework 3 – probably, unfortunately – has fallen – we will vote in favour of the Labour Party's proposal. With regard to the other proposals outside the framework, I would like to make it clear that proposal No. 8 is a joint proposal from the Workers' Party and SV. I would, of course, like the group to vote in favour of this. Like the Labour Party, we will vote against proposal No. 17 and for the other proposals of the Workers' Party. I would have liked that proposal no. 24 were sent, because we see the need to see the investment in Youth vs Violence in connection with the other applications for the big city funds – for that is where this comes from – and in connection with the fact that Youth vs. Violence has also received 1 million. kr on the budget of the Ministry of Justice. If the Labour Party insists that it vote on it, we will have to vote against that proposal in this context. But I would like to make it clear that in our remarks we have asked for increased support for Youth Against Violence.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e1213	Several have not asked for the floor for an explanation of vote. The majority proposals are the first to be voted on, with the exception of the proposals Nos. 1 and 4, and then over the setting, where the remaining minority proposals will be addressed for alternative voting. We start with the proposals from SV. That is the proposal No. 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 14, 15 and 16. Is there anyone who wants us to split up these proposals? - It's not. We shall then vote on these proposals together. Proposal No. 3 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e3553	The proposals are then put to the vote. 8 and 12, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘A public body is set up to coordinate the collection of knowledge and to make violence against women visible. The Committee shall propose measures to combat violence against women and improve the protection of victims. The Secretariat shall be added to the Equality Competence Centre.’.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the scheme for the decoration of state buildings by incorporating the current category 3 into category 4 where 1 pst. of the construction costs shall be used for decoration.»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e3574	We have then come to the proposals of the Workers' Party. The President will first address the proposals. 19, 22, and 23. In the course of the debate, these proposals have been proposed for transmission. Proposal No. 19 shall then be worded as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government return to Stortinget with a review of the foster home situation.’ Proposal No. 22 shall be worded as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government take seriously the extended concept of culture and reintroduce it. 341 Purposes of sport, in its budget proposal, so that sport is once again part of the cultural debate of the Stortinge.’.» Proposal No. 23 shall be worded as follows: ‘The Government is advised to start development work and research in order to gain new ideas and knowledge about actions that can be put into action against violence in the child and youth environments.’ The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President then takes up the remaining proposals from the Workers' Party. The President has understood that SV wants to vote against proposal No. 24, but by the way. That is when proposals Nos 1 and 2 are voted on. 2, 18, 20, 21 and 25. Proposal No. 2 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e4465	We shall then vote on proposal No. 24, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to restore the project support to Youth against Violence to operating aid’. Here the Socialist Left Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e4483	We are now discussing proposal No. 13 by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, and proposal No. 17, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Center Party. These are alternative proposals and therefore alternative voting will be carried out between these two proposals. Proposal No. 13, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘A wide-ranging range is being set up to review the media policy instruments and the framework conditions for the press so that policy objectives can be achieved.’ Proposal No. 17, from the Party of Advancement, Christian People's Party, Right and Center Party, says: ‘The Government is asking for a public sample to be set up to review the press support. This work should cover all components constituting the framework conditions of the press and where the press support is also seen in a comprehensive media policy context.»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e4504	So we're going to vote over the setting. Alternatively, between the vote on the proposal for a decision on framework 1 and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e6120	The proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party reads:
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e8717	Here the Socialist Left Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e8726	So we've come to area three. Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e10114	The President makes it clear that the proposal for a decision makes a mistake that needs to be corrected. Under II, Act of Commitment, para. 1 shall be SEK 41,8 million. kr and not 25,8 mill. kr, as it says. The proposal from the Workers' Party is as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e11913	During the debate Per Sandberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Chap. 854Actions in the field of child protection71Research, development and information, etc., reduced by DKK1 095 000 Cape. 856Barnehager64Adjectives to other kindergartens are reduced by NOK 355000’»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e12746	There is a vote on the Per Sandberg proposal on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 24 November 1998: ‘The government asks the Government to come back with proposals for legislative changes that provide equal benefits to young children’s parents at birth and adoption, irrespective of income and occupational activity.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e12763	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's: - the proposals No. 1 and 2, from Per Erik Monsen on behalf of the Progress Party. - the proposals No. 3-7, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The vote is first on the minority proposals, then on the setting. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 from the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘Chap. 2412 The Norwegian State House Bank90The loan to the House Bank is increased by NOK 1 000 000 and is granted by NOK 9 597 000’» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘Chap. 2420 State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund (ERDF)91Loans to the Risk Loan Facility increased by DKK 800000 and granted by NOK 6 300000000’» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘Chap. 2420 State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund94Loans to the low-risk loan scheme, reduced by DKK 1 000 000 000 and granted by DKK 1 750 000 000 ’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘Chap. 2422 State Environment Fund 90Loans, increased by NOK 220 000 000 and granted by NOK 450 000 000 ’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘Chap. 2422 State Environment Fund Loans, energy research, amounting to DKK 1 000 000 000 » [[New]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e12896	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an evaluation of the housing loan scheme for government employees and to promote this as a matter of its own before the government budget for 2000’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out an evaluation of the necessity of the Norwegian State Husbank, and to promote this as a matter of its own before the consideration of the State budget for 2000.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e12916	It shall then vote on the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e13998	Here the Workers' Party has announced that they will vote against it. The President asks whether this also applies to the Socialist Left Party. – It does.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e15198	A vote shall then be taken on the proposal for a decision to be taken outside the framework areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-15-2.ana.ud360e15273	There is no record.
