ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e44	The called alternate of the Mora and Romesdal counties, Eli Sollied Överaas, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e50	Recent times have clearly revealed what an oil nation's great challenge is: we need to learn how to deal with very uncertain and fluctuating oil prices. It is also the case that the fight for investment is becoming increasingly tougher. Norwegian cap competes for investment with a number of other countries. Politicians have a major and difficult task of managing economic policy. Individual oil companies must prepare for the increasing competition. In this situation, it is very important that the companies operating on a Norwegian base experience that the conditions determined in Norway do not change from year to year, and often several times a year, in line with the policy needs for money to meet the actual electoral commitments. Norway can never compete with some other countries for lower taxes and opportunities for exploitation of workers and the environment. But one thing we have to be able to offer as an important competitive advantage: stability and long-term stability can be the only advantage we have on Norwegian soil. In this context, not least the uncertainty of the recent period about, for example: The increase in CO2 tax was important, an increase that was so important to the Government in June that it threatened not to get a majority in favour of it, while it was now reversed in the autumn, now the Government would accept a cut in the CO2 tax in order to be able to fly on. There has been uncertainty about corporate tax, and there has been uncertainty about new practices for new fields. This is not a particularly good policy for stability and long-term sustainability. Another side of the reality of low oil prices is how oil companies deal with this. From this point on, it can be difficult to meet with other than reduced costs. The NORSOK process showed us that it was possible to reduce costs and extend the lifetime of Norway as an oil nation. There is a lot of evidence that we should go into a new NORSOK round. There is every reason to believe that the oil price remains low, and it is only money to make money to reduce costs if the price of oil would rise again. Cutting costs has one well-known page. It is usually the employees who have to bleed. Harder labour pressure and tougher work environment are a high price to pay for many. In my opinion, it is possible to carry out the necessary processes without losing health, but it requires management. In my opinion, the authorities have a special responsibility to initiate the proper implementation of the necessary measures by companies operating on the base. We also have a very strong supply and equipment industry that is hit by low oil prices and the pursuit of costs. It is an important responsibility that even this part of Oil Norway, which may be what we have to bet on when it ends oil and gas, gets through this with our heads over the water. The value creation of this technological and knowledge-based industry will be an important foundation for industrial production in future Norway. So a few words in the end about something that others from the Workers' Party have mentioned before me, but that doesn't get any less important for that reason: shifts in the power sector. In a situation of increasing demand for electricity produced on pure hydropower, and where we constantly need to import coal power, it must be wrong to propose measures to counteract reorganisation and efficiency in the power sector. To do as the Government will, remove the reimbursement system for document fees, is to send out a signal to this industry – that we do not want more efficiency and conversion, that the Government will not have a more efficient hydropower production and turnover! I see in today's newspapers that former Vice President of the Center Party, Kolbjørn Almlid, calls the current line in the Central Party's policy of «reactionary» and «retro-German». I'm not going that far. But to slow down reorganization at a time of so great upheavals in this market both in Norway and in Europe, with ever greater shortages of electricity in Norway, where we import more and more coal power, and to slow down efficiency, at least it is not very forward-looking. But it may not be the role of the Center Party to be forward-looking either.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e76	The draft budget for the Ministry of Oil and Energy naturally bears some of the constraints on which there seems to be a great deal of agreement with regard to the state budget. Nevertheless, the Government has been able to take on important priorities, which are also reflected in the comparison with the Right Party and the Advance Party. The main energy policy objectives of the Government are linked to long-term sustainability, value creation, well-being, employment, future power consumption and a desire to establish the energy nation of Norway as a priority country on environmental issues. The draft budget for 1999 is well on the way to meeting these main objectives. In particular, it is gratifying that the commitment to renewable energy is a strong priority in the draft budget. This is consistent with the Government’s goal of limiting energy consumption. Norway is among the countries that consume the most electricity per year. the population. Forecasts for the next 15-20 years represent an increasing demand for power while also increasing imports of electricity under given assumptions. In such a perspective, the Government of the Adults Declaration stresses the importance of rethinking how we can best address future power needs while taking the necessary environmental challenges into account for the energy sector as a whole. With what is behind us, we are faced with enormous challenges in the energy sector. Therefore, in order to counteract the increasing consumption of fossil resources while taking care of remaining, large watercourses, our willingness to adopt critical attitudes to today's energy consumption and forecasts for the coming years will be very important. Developing new, large watercourses and at the same time open to the use of gas to cover an expected increase in domestic energy consumption is hardly the way to go in this context. I am therefore pleased that the government has said no to the extension of the Upper Otta watercourse, and that signals from the Right give hope that the watercourse can be saved. On the other hand, I am not happy that the Workers' Party's national meeting has now opened up the use of gas on the domestic market. I find it difficult to understand other than that this is contrary to the lot’s own programme, which underlines the Norwegian gas as an export article for relief for highly polluting power generation in other countries. I have also registered significant frustration within the Workers' Party's own ranks over this decision, which is difficult to interpret as being different from an environmental policy retreat. On the other hand, the government's offensive attitude to rethink the energy policy of the future is a step in the right direction. The development of alternative energy production is continued through the initial proposal for next year's budget of 270 million. kr. The proposal is, however, somewhat reduced by the agreed agreement with the Right and the Advance Party, but we are still left with a significant increase in relation to the year's budget. In sum, the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties, the Right and the Advance Party means an increase of 30 pst. to an additional and alternative energy development in 1999. In the case of grants for the introduction of energy technologies and bioenergy, the increased effort will allow the extension of the support scheme to solar energy as well as strengthen efforts in particular for wind energy, heat pumps and district heating. The exemption from the investment levy and production aid for wind power means an important strengthening of efforts, in addition to the increased possibility of investment aid provided for in the budget. Increased investment in an additional and alternative energy combined with the Government’s proposal for an increased electricity tax, shows that the Government is taking seriously the objective that Norway should, in a normal year, be self-sufficient in electricity through renewable energy sources. However, the electricity charging increase, as proposed by the Government, has not received the necessary majority in the Grand Duchy, and there is therefore reason to call for concrete alternative measures to achieve this objective. The Government proposes to wind up the system of reimbursement of the document fee for electricity companies. I support this, inter alia: in the interests of equal treatment vis-à-vis other undertakings, and is satisfied that the agreement with the Right and the Advance Party ensures the majority of the proposal. With effect from the 1993 budget, the Stortinget has agreed to allow the King, under certain conditions, to approve new projects in the petroleum industry. The mandate for simplified administrative procedure is proposed to be continued in the 1999 budget, but the ceiling for total investment per year. the project is proposed to be reduced from NOK 5 billion to NOK 3 billion. In doing so, the government has signalled a willingness to increase participation by the Storting, but one records that the majority wants to grant the Government extended authorisation. Finally, I would like to recommend the proposal presented, including the agreement with the Right and the Advance Party, on the 1999 budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, a budget which takes care of and continues to give priority to a new and forward-looking energy policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e106	Society is in great development, especially in the field of technology. To move on with technology and development, we need to put great emphasis on research in the future. Other countries in Europe have gone beyond us, and in the future we need to invest even more in basic research to create skills and value creation in mainland Norway, not least in the districts. This has been recognised by the Workers' Party and therefore proposes the creation of a Norwegian Research Fund, where state sales of shares and holdings are relocated to forward-looking research rather than the provision of clean consumption and civic overburdens. The Labour Party believes that it should focus on three main areas: marine research, medical research and environmental research. The latter will be of great importance for us to be able to meet our commitments under the Kyoto agreement on greenhouse gas emissions. Environmental protection research was a high priority in Norwegian research policy while the Labour Party had the government power; in fact, research and development funded by the Ministry of the Environment increased by more than 50 pst. in the 1990s, until 1997. Environmental research today is making new demands for research efforts. We know that basic research is the foundation of other research. So we have a public responsibility to ensure this research is a good framework, and then we can't use the cheese-suiting principle and cut a little bit here and a little bit there. Nevertheless, this is what the bourgeois majority does in next year's budget, where basic appropriations for research institutes have also been cut. These are not the large numbers, but the signals mean that Norway can stand rather quickly without expertise in research. Only within the Norwegian Institute of Natural Research, NINA, is the number of researchers actually reduced from 15 to 8 in a short time. It will be important in future to give these institutions greater predictability in the framework conditions for the work they do. We still have many unresolved environmental research, environmental work and clean-up tasks around the country. One of the most polluted places in the country is the former mining site of Sulitjelma. The entire Committee agrees that the State, as the last owner of the mining activity, is responsible for the environmental clean-up in Sulitjelma, and that major clean-up work remains after 104 years of mining and major pollution. An example of this is that in 1989 the melting furnace pipe, which is 65 metres high, was blown down, which was a danger to the environment, was said to be. Today, 10 years later, it is almost buried with sand and dust from the slags, which in special weather conditions send black clouds over parts of Sulitjelma. The opinion of the Committee is therefore a victory for the Sulitjelma community and gives hope that we will be able to resolve the major pollution problems despite the fact that the Government considers their financial obligations to be completed in Sulitjelma. This is the view of the Government, although a majority of the financial committee in the revised national budget in 1998 required the Ministry to provide funds for cleaning up the budget for 1999. How far from reality are Left's politicians, who call themselves environmental champions and then have government councils in both the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Environment? The Labour Party proposes to grant 1 million in the 1999 budget. SEK for the scrapping work in Sulitjelma, and SV supports this. Unfortunately, Sulitjelma became a victim of a civil budget settlement. The five bourgeois parties did not find financial resources for the environmental work in Sulitjelma, and Sulitjelma must give way to the tithe of power, even this time. I choose to interpret it so that on the next crossroads, the committee stands together.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e123	Lars Rise has asked for the word out of the way to put forward a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e126	I should have liked to have commented on part of what Torny Pedersen said, but...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e131	That is not possible, it is in order to present a proposal to the representative that has now been put to the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e134	Yes, I will have proposal No. 3 on page 54 of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e139	Lars Rise then brought up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e142	Within an otherwise tight budget, the Government continues its efforts for a better environment. This requires that the ambitions and instruments of environmental protection policy are both maintained and strengthened. Environmental protection policy needs to be better anchored locally, and it needs to be better integrated into the economic system and in the various sectors. The main areas of activity in the budget are climate action, the protection of biodiversity and action against chemicals that are hazardous to health and the environment. The government has also set new, ambitious national air quality targets. I am pleased that we have joined the main lines of the budget proposal. Environmental protection policy is far beyond the Ministry of the Environment's own budget. In the context of the State budget, the first two sectoral environmental action plans have been presented by the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Defence. Several new plans will be drawn up in 1999. The proposal on green taxes was one step in the necessary conversion of the tax system and a follow-up to the ‘polluter pays’ principle. The tax package in the budget contains the amendments adopted by the Stortinget in June. Several of the proposals are important elements of the Government’s climate policy. I can mention the extension of the CO2 tax and the final treatment tax on waste. Changes in the charging framework will also stimulate the development of wind power and other alternative energy sources, while increasing the appropriations for an increase in the budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy. The government has set up a public body to investigate a national system of tradable greenhouse gas allowances. The selection shall give its opinion by the end of 1999. Action against local air pollution and noise is important for the Government. We have presented new and stricter targets for local air quality. The level of ambition is high, and we have started work on reviewing the national and local instrumentation. The Government aims to present national noise targets during 1999. Knowledge of biodiversity and its associated values needs to be strengthened. Work has therefore been started on monitoring, value classification and monitoring of biodiversity in municipalities. The government has started working on national policy guidelines to ensure biodiversity. The Government will ensure the sound management of the large predatory animals, while maintaining active agriculture with the possibility of exploiting the set-aside. The effort to record stocks has been increased. Conversion funds have been allocated for particularly vulnerable uses, and the Government will follow developments closely, among other things. for the prevention and procurement of pests. Emissions of those hazardous to health and the environment chemicals shall be significantly reduced and will be tried to stop by 2000, 2005 and 2010. The most dangerous substances will be reduced first. The right of consumers and traders to know and to make environmentally friendly choices should be strengthened. In this field, the Government is focusing in particular on measures to improve information on such substances at all stages of the production stream. The objective of Local Agenda 21 is to establish cooperation between the municipality, non-governmental organisations and local businesses in a joint effort for sustainable development. The rapporteurs and advisers are therefore also key actors in the local Agenda 21 work. A anchoring in the municipality's ordinary planning processes is essential. I see Local Agenda 21 as an important tool in the renewal of local democracy. By building on the apparatus of the Local Governments’ Central Association, regionally, in addition to key environments of excellence at the central level, a wider range of tools can provide a good exchange of experience and learning that will strengthen the local Agenda 21 work. This cooperation strategy shall not be at the expense of non-governmental organisations, rather on the contrary. In this context, I would like to remind you that there are several items in the budget that can be used in Local Agenda 21 work. I have noted the Committee's scepticism as a regional focal point for coordinating and developing local Agenda 21. The majority oppose a further build-up of regional focal point funded by government funds. To follow up on the majority, I want to keep the nodes where there is an agreement, but not build this further. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the agreements with the nodes are limited in time and will of course be evaluated, and that the Stortinget will gain knowledge of this evaluation. I will also meet the desire of the Alliance to actively participate in the Local Agenda 21 work. The Committee refers to its earlier wish for the Government to present a new paper on waste policy, source sorting and recovery. The work on such a big message has started. I agree with the Committee's proposal that a new review of outdoor policy should be desirable. I have already begun the discussions on what theme will be central to such a review. Important issues that point out are the development of land use, particularly in cities and agglomerations and along the coast, and the commercialisation of natural use in relation to all human rights. I am pleased with the Committee's comments on the State's nature oversight and the emphasis on the local connection and function of the Natural Supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e175	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e178	Governments mentioned environmental interventions in a number of areas other than the Ministry of Environment budget, including: Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Oil and Energy. Of course, I fully agree that important environmental decisions are being taken in the budgets of other departments. The more alarming it is that the Council of State does not mention in a single word perhaps the most dramatic environmental decision we are about to make in this budgetary process, namely the very dramatic cuts in nuclear safety and improved environment efforts in North-West Russia. Nuclear pollution in Kola is not one of the many environmental problems we face, it is perhaps the most acute, the most serious and the most pressing environmental problem we face, and so there is a massive decline that the Environment Council should have dealt with when she chose to mention the efforts of other departments. Initially, the Government tried to justify the cut – from well over 400 million. Last year for proposals of 100 million. kr this year – because it was difficult to spend the money. That in itself is a problem for the Government. And then you're going to halve the proposal by 100 million. NOK 50 million. kr, the Minister of Foreign Affairs acknowledges in a letter to the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 1 December that there will be a loss of activity, that more applications will have to be refused, and that more projects in progress will be reduced. It means less effort for a cleaner environment in Kola and North-West Russia, and then my question is: how can an Environmental Council defend our stepping down that effort? I would also like to say that we understand that the number of issues the Minister for the Environment promotes is not the only objective of whether an active environmental policy is pursued, but what we criticise the Government for is that even they informed matters, such as: the promised report on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, did not make it possible for the Government to come forward, and then there is a point that it is quite thin with other matters as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e185	Let me first admit that even if this council speaks very quickly, it should be done to get into all matters in five minutes. However, I fully agree that the situation in Russia, which is mainly served by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget, is very important. Unfortunately, we have seen in recent years that it has been difficult to spend money in Russia because, among other things, the agreements. on customs and other types of administration have not been in place, so that we have been able to implement measures. This has led to a number of times we have had to transfer appropriations from one year to another. What the government has now proposed is that we have a commitment authority to continue planning in 1999 of 200 million. kr, which may be disbursed in the year 2000. I also want to stress that in terms of my own department, there are still 270 million. kr in the undertaking authorisation to Nikel and will be paid if it is possible to put in place a contract agency to enable this. With regard to the report on the government's environmental profile and the state of the state of the state, it was my clear ambition to get it to the budget this year, but it turned out when we started working on this, that it became difficult when we had such high ambitions. We want this document to be far more thorough than what the Government has so far achieved through the Green Paper and the budget description. And as I hadn't gone out any stronger than saying that I was “seeing” from the Storting Speaker's Chair, we chose to inform the Storting about this in the budget proposition. It is possible that we should have done it another way, but I think we have ours relatively dry. Then I also want to say that there are a number of things the government has done, although the Stortinget has not received more than one message from us. I mention the crossroads of Upper Otta, the crossroads of Lofast, the proposition on green taxes, national air quality targets, no to pucks in the Jondalen and the Stavanger soil protection case – the key to showing that this Government is taking environmental protection seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e196	I'm not going to get involved in the dispute between the Workers' Party and the Centre parties about who is the biggest environmental sink, Thorbjørn Berntsen or Guro Fjellanger, but it's striking that when the Council of State and others in the Centre parties are going to prove that this is an environmental government, it's almost consistently shown to be proposals promoted by departments other than the Ministry of Environmental Protection. It is clear that the transition from opposition to position has also been a transition from vision to environmental policy administration. I think it is particularly disappointing that there appears to be a further red tape of environmental policy. The Council of State was largely concerned with the so-called node structure linked to Local Agenda 21. Local Agenda 21 should be a local and voluntary work, where the voluntary organisations, the well-being, the community enthusiasts, the business community and the municipality are in the picture. The Council of State says that this structure, which is linked to the Communes' Central Association, does not go at the expense of the voluntary organisations, but that is exactly what it does. When the Government proposes to grant $18 million kr., and most of the million will go to more bureaucrats, it is a red tape of environmental policy. And we have enough bureaucrats – in the municipalities, in the counties, related to the county environmental protection department and the large flora of state environmental protection networks. Now the Stortinget has put its foot down, and I ask the Council of State to confirm that the nine planned hub stations to be set up in 1999 are being scrapped, and that the money is used instead for voluntary organisations, as the Stortinget has said.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e203	I don't want to repeat myself, but of the things I mentioned instead of taking an offensive environmental position, there are up to several that are under my department. Let me mention five of them very briefly. Firstly, we have been given speed on the agreement with Norwegian Forest in the case of blackout plants, so a recycled paper factory is being built in Norway. Secondly, we have an agreement that regulates the dumping of platforms. This is because this government was prepared to change the starting point – compared to the fact that we used to go against a general ban, now we have a ban, but with exceptions. My department is also responsible for the new national air quality objectives. It's my department that's in charge of the puck shop in Jondal. And as Stortinget is well known, it is also my department that is responsible for the soil protection business in Stavanger. With regard to the other two questions raised by the representative Sanner – I think I said that in my post, but I would like to repeat it – we have clearly understood the Stortinget's wish that we should only continue the regional nodes that have been agreed upon, and of course we should follow that up. I would like to stress that once we have chosen this organization, it is because we believe that close cooperation between the county, county and KS is important, and that is also what we have offered these actors. KS is important because it is quite right to anchor such a process into the usual planning processes in the municipality in order not to get a process entirely on the side of the leaders that are otherwise put on what is happening. I think we have a common desire not to build too big an administration, but when, among other things, we do. had proposed 5 million. NOK over the Riksantikvaren budget to the county council, it is because the county council has been charged with new tasks, and then I think it would be natural to follow up these demands on new tasks with money. But of course, we should follow up the Storting's wish at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e218	As I said earlier today, the criticism that the Labour Party has today in the media against the Ministry of the Environment and the Minister of Environmental Protection is hot. But I also mean that it frames the party that speaks, because they're actually worse in this area than the government and the partners, they've cut bigger. As a tip to the Labour Party, I can suggest that they do as SV and make own proposals that the Minister for the Environment must follow up after decisions in Stortinget. We can only see, because it's a little passive itself, that the Committee sympathizes with raising offensive environmental issues. A tight and, in the opinion of SV, a little ambitious environmental budget was provided by the Minister for the Environment. Resources for cultural memory protection, environmental research, information work, biodeficiency, liming, PCB remediation, efforts in the north were weak, etc. Overall, there was a low environmental budget that was presented to the Stortinget. And when it was initially scarce and it looked after negotiations was cut by 20 million. kr, it corresponds badly to what is stated in the Adultås Declaration. My first question to the Minister for the Environment is whether this will enable one to implement any of the statements in the Adultås Declaration in this field – not in the field of energy. Question no. 2 applies to climate. We are able to return to this in an interpellation debate on 12 January. It was said by the Environment Minister that one had a target of a 50 pst reduction. domestic. Can the Minister for the Environment confirm this number?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e229	I understand that it is easier to spend more money both on the Ministry of the Environment's budget and on the Ministry of Oil and Energy's budget when SV in its alternative approach chooses to halve the contraction. It is clear that then there will be more money for distribution. However, I must allow myself to ask the wiseness of such a proposal – not least because the ambition to reduce interest rates, which is very much at the root of the constraints we have proposed, is important at all levels of administration, both at municipal, county and central level, and will also be important in relation to how much resources are available for environmental action. When, in comparison with the Advance Party and the Right, it's cut 20 million. In the Ministry of the Environment's original draft budget, this is something I do not have problems living with – at least not when I know that in the layout of the Workers' Party originally presented, the cut was almost twice as large. And it's also like, whether SV likes it or not, that a prerequisite for a draft budget to become a budget is that it can have a majority in the Stortinget, and that's something a government has to deal with. I believe that we have a good basis for saying that we are doing well to follow up the Waxenås declaration, also within my area. You'll see that if you look at the reviews we provide at regular intervals, the last time we'd been sitting for a year. I'm not in doubt that we're going to get into good shape with this in the four years we have at our disposal. As regards the climate debate, we will have time to take it thoroughly and really on 12 January. What I allowed myself to refer to in my post in Buenos Aires were the proposals that the Government made to the Storting, which would cover half of the gap between our commitments and the reference path, and to which the Storting essentially joined. That point Stortinget didn't join, you chose to replace it with another one that you thought would cover up as much. The size also agreed that action should be brought back both nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e240	State Council Fields ask questions about the wisdom of SV's additions to the Ministry of the Environment's budget. Then I would like to remind the Council of State that it is not long – just two budgets – since her comrades in the government were also on these bidding rounds. I think it's right to remind you that there are only two budgets since the Central Party proposed adding half a billion more to the Ministry of the Environment's budget than Thorbjørn Berntsen provided. And there are only two budget rounds since the Christian People's Party proposed to add 350 billion kroner to what Berntsen proposed in its budget. There is also a point that today you can read out of the budget proposed by the Government, that there is almost a blueprint of the budget that Thorbjørn Berntsen presented at the time. It is that the Centre has put the list high in relation to what we can expect of them in environmental policy and in terms of alternative energy. What is quite clear is that I can very clearly document the claim that they have failed their environmental objectives by pursuing such an environmental policy as they do. In the Adult Declaration, they thus put up an environmental policy reverse operation, and the Minister for the Environment's colleague Anne Enger Lahnstein expressed himself so strongly as to say that they would have a fundamentally different environmental idea. I would then like to ask the Council of State this question: does she think that the environmental policy she is now facing is a fundamentally different environmental idea, and that the lack of new initiatives by the Ministry of the Environment – initiatives that go hand in hand with her absence – is part of the fundamentally new environmental thinking? And does she look at the result, which, after a year of central government, is a solid growth in consumption and an increase in electricity consumption by 5 TWh, as a fundamental change in environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e247	My starting point for asking questions about the wisdom of the SV's proposal was that they finance it by halving the budget's tightening-up – and here I think I was quite clear in my previous answer. I don't know about the comparison with the situation two years ago, not least because you didn't add up to a tightening of NOK 8 billion. I'm a little confused about what the Workers' Party really thinks about the Government at the moment, when two of the most central ones in the Energy and Environment Committee say that the Government's policy is a hard stop and a blue copy of the Workers' Party. I don't know how to interpret it, but I think it might be important to mention some features of this budget that are different from those of the Labour Party budgets earlier: there has never been any proposal for such money for liming as this Government has done, we have increased the appropriations in the case of predatory game – not least for stock registration – we have increased the effort in the area of environmental taxes and clean-up measures, we have increased the effort on energy savings, and we have followed up the proposal on green taxes. I think this must be a good step in the right direction in a decade. Like other speakers from the centre team who have been up on the pulpit today, I am a little surprised at the criticism raised against the Government regarding the increase in electricity consumption. One of the main reasons why the government proposed to increase the electricity charge was that we know that even with the increase we proposed, the price of electricity in Norway would not have gone higher than it was in 1996. But even this means of working was not the Workers' Party willing to join. It could be an important tool to do something about the electricity consumption we have in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e256	There can be no doubt that the Left Party and the Center Party – the centre party at all – two years ago had a completely different environmental profile from what they currently have in position. There's something else you don't have to tell this room -- everyone who's here knows they had it. At that time, the centre-left and centre parties were special – more in line with SV, and they had offensive environmental policies. Initially, the Adultås declaration was also positive when thinking about the environment. But then it's the practical policy, that's what we're talking about. What happens when a person comes to position? Well, then the environmental policy disappears, then the environmental effort is no longer here. So one can say that SV doesn't tighten that much. SV is streaming into where one should stream, especially in relation to those who have enough money – stock speculators and other people who really need a tightening. There's an SV streaming in. It was also part of the central section profile when they were in opposition. So this being in position seems to be annoying. Then, as a matter of fact, the whole political base that one had before disappeared. So to a very concrete matter – a matter that I have challenged the Council of State several times in Question Time, but that the Council of State has forwarded to the Minister of Fisheries. It is biological contamination associated with salmon farming. Now one in Hordaland had 60,000 salmon – 300,000 to 400,000 kg – that escaped from the meridians, and it goes beyond the wild axis by spreading lice to the wild. This lacks knowledge; there is a great deal of pollution associated with farming facilities in general. What will the State Council do with this? SV believes one should research it and have suggestions on it. What did the Council of State think of that?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e267	I think I might repeat myself and say that what was important to me was that SV increased, among other things. The environmental budget by halving the contraction – which is 8 billion kroner. And that tightening we think is important because a high interest rate is one of the most unsocial we can have, and some of it is the worst in terms of distribution policy, which is another area I know SV is concerned about. Then the Left is taken to income for having been in line with SV in previous budgetary periods. There's one thing I know, and that's that the party I belong to has always provided budgets that have been balanced, and have always had at least as much tightening as the government has proposed. It was a principle that the Left even lived after the time it was not on the Stortinget. So if you try to take the left's environmental exposure – whether it's in position or opposition – to income because we've previously driven overbidder policy, I'm going to strongly distance myself from it. So over to the salmon: On the way down from the pulpit, the representative of Langeland whispered to me: «The salmonfish, you know». I have to admit that after being around and looking at some of this, I have among other things. learned that what you need to become a good salmonid is patience, patience, patience and orange fly. And I tend to say that I don't have any of the parts. But I still have a lot of interest in the field, because I think it's important. In addition to spreading lice problems, there is of course a problem with genetic contamination, which unfortunately may be so important. What is happening now is that the reduced salmon sample is presenting its setting in the new year. There is a setting I am happy to get, and of course I will follow up. To the representative's question as to whether it's arduous to sit in the position, I'll say, No, it's really quite polite, and it's recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e281	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e284	At the outset, I just want to comment on something that emerged in the line change between the Council of State of Flanders and Jens Stoltenberg, where the Council of State of Flanders in a way pushes under the carpet the consequences of the cuts on the allocations to Eastern Europe. It was claimed in the reply that it can continue as before, because of the possibilities of transfers from the previous year. But it's not like that. In a letter from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, it is said: ‘However, in the case of 1999 in isolation, the project activity is clearly negatively affected by the reduction of the allocation to such a low level as is now proposed. In addition to the need to reject a number of project applications, other projects will reduce their support. ‘... It's clear that the greatest environmental threat that we have on Kola, with the lack of proper storage of nuclear waste, and the dangerous threats we also have, does not take this government seriously and inwardly. And that's just sad to admit. The environmental budget of the year is the first budget prepared by the central government from the beginning. Throughout the 1990s, the centre parties have expressed deep dissatisfaction at the lack of environmental efforts by the workers' party governments and have created high expectations for their own efforts. Until the change of government, the central parties claimed that they had a fundamentally different environmental policy. The head of the centre party even sent out a press release in July 1997, promising that a central government would become an environmental government that said no to continued strong growth in consumption, yes to a stronger commitment to climate action, yes to a major shift to green taxes and yes to a stronger commitment to public transport. In all these areas, the Government has failed its ambitious objectives: Resistance to continued strong growth in consumption has turned to a detachment of consumption and historical growth in electricity consumption. The criticism of the Labour Party's climate policy has turned to an overall resolution on the Labour Party's climate strategy both in Kyoto and in Buenos Aires. The conversion to green taxes has become a marginal adjustment. The effort on public transport has been cut off from railway investment and cut from public transport. At least the fundamental change in environmental thinking is not found in this environmental budget. This budget is essentially a blueprint of the latest budgets presented by Thorbjørn Berntsen as the Minister for the Environment, budgets for which Thorbjørn Berntsen received a number of criticisms from the central parties. With the center parts, there was no environmental revolution, but an environmental pause. One who had expected many new environmental initiatives with a central government has unfortunately been disappointed. The central government and the Environment Minister Guro Fjellanger have also noted the lack of environmental initiatives. Apart from the Kyoto message, there has not been a single political initiative from the Government. The paradox is that the opposition in Stortinget is taking the initiative. On two occasions, the Stortinget has instructed the Government and the Minister for the Environment to find new environmental policy solutions. In our charge, the Government issued a new paper on waste policy. Sickness with figures from the Statistical Central Bureau shows that we are recycling more and more waste for every year, does little when each citizen produces ever more garbage. We need new instruments and measures that reduce the amount of waste itself and oblige producers to reduce the use of packaging. We need a new waste policy. In the setting we are dealing with today, we are instructing the Government to present a new news report on outdoor life. In recent years, the potential for outdoor activity has been significantly weakened by the reduction of attractive natural areas in both size and quality. At the same time, they have become more difficult to access. More and more Norwegians live in cities and densely populated areas and do not have daily access to forests and land. The working party believes that it is an objective that everyone should have the opportunity to participate in the experiences and enjoy nature. If we are to meet this objective, we need to develop new instruments in the field of open air policy. The Communication on the State of the State of the State was announced to be the jewel of the central government's environmental policy. Since the budget debate last autumn, we have repeatedly been promised a report on the government's environmental profile and state of affairs. In the March 18 question mark, the Council of State promised that it would come to the harvest. In a press release on 23 April, she further raised her expectations with the following opinion: ‘In addition, the cross-sectoral environmental protection policy will become more offensive in the introduction of sectoral environmental action plans and a national performance monitoring system, i.e. regular reporting on the state of the Kingdom’. Now this report is postponed – perhaps to next year's budget? Where did the central party's promises go? From changing environmental policy fundamentally, they have fundamentally changed their own policies.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e329	The right refers to the great potential for the development and use of alternative energy sources and renewable energy. Right will stimulate an increase in the use of new energy sources, waterborne heat, heat pumps and bioenergy, and therefore proposes an increase of 12pst. for that purpose. We have been charged here in the hall that we have not driven hard on alternative energy. I just want to refute it, because if there's anyone who's been running on it, it's the right. We made a proposal in Stortinget about increased use of heat pumps, precisely because heat pumps are what we believe is the best thing to bet on today. Right outside the window here there are enormous possibilities for energy. There's so much energy that we can't actually use up what's out there. And if we use what's in the soil and water as well, then we can do it in energy without doing it like the centermates, that's putting on the charge for twisting the consumption. What we have to do is make sure to market this form of energy in a completely different way from what we've done now. There must be effective out here, i.e. proper marketing, like the marketing that businesses use to sell their products. The Stortinget has something to learn, and that's what the Right wanted us to be able to do. The biggest environmental and energy problem we have here in Norway is the Government. We have a government that unfortunately does not have a majority in this Chamber, and that is a real problem. That is why I would urge the Government to turn either to the right or to the left as soon as possible in order to address both energy and environmental policy. We can't have it the way we have it today, where we angle from side to side, and where it's unpredictable all the way. If there is some business, oil and other industries that want to catch up, there is a stable framework. They want to rule according to predictability, not after what we experience today. It's a tragedy for Norway that we have a government that hasn't realized this. We have a political crisis in this country, and this political crisis is our job in Stortinget to end. I am really surprised when I find that the centremates come to Stortinget and say that they are very pleased with the budget they have submitted, not least the representative Rise could tell that he was very pleased with what they had presented. What have they submitted? First, we in opposition had to make sure to change blood on them, and then we had to make sure to give them artificial breathing comfort so that they would get to the financial debate that we had. It's a tragedy that they haven't realized that it wasn't the ones who put out a budget, it was all the others in the Storting that put it out. I hope, as I said at the outset, that this government understands the writing that is on the wall of this nation. If they don't get it, we get it in the opposition, and then we get to help them out of the government building.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e344	After this article, it might well be right to remind you that it was Right who made sure that this government survived again. The oil price is the lowest in many years. There are special demands for us who are politicians in a country with as large an oil sector as Norway has. Fortunately, targeted policies have made Norway much less vulnerable to fluctuations in the oil price than just a few years ago. With the help of the oil fund, we have created a buffer that can take off the oscillations. Reduced oil revenue no longer automatically means cutting public expenditure or services. Although low oil prices and thus reduced revenue for the country are not as acute as before, a reduced oil fund will, of course, be a long-term problem. But low oil prices mean more to Norway than reduced revenues. The oil sector itself is very important. Thousands of people work in oil companies and the supplier industry. Ring effects create new activity and new jobs. Many communities and municipalities depend entirely on the activity taking place in the oil sector. If this sector has problems, it means that large parts of Norway get it. Reduced oil prices over time may threaten thousands of jobs. If we can influence the oil price, one thing is for itself. But the oil price is not the only framework under which this industry lives. All the time oil prices are so volatile, it is all the more important that the other framework conditions are far-sighted and long-term. This has not been the case in the last year, rather on the contrary. There is a new uncertainty, an uncertain link to the administration of this sector. Several representatives have tabled proposals for an increase in CO2 tax, increase capital taxes and lower the limit of simplified approval – all proposals that go in the wrong direction. Instead of helping to make it more interesting to invest in Norway for a difficult period, the government has done the opposite. Nor can I see that Arnstad's statement earlier today was particularly clarifying or entertaining in this area. Unfortunately, this industry seems to have to live with uncertain links to its policies. It has been claimed that there are not quite the big differences in the different budgets today. However, I would argue that relatively small cuts – or for the sake of the case’s additions – have much greater consequences in some areas than in others. Such a vulnerable area is the Riksantikvar. When the conciliators cut $6 million. NOK 8 million. kr, in this area, has a direct impact on the activity to be carried out by the Riksantikvar. The majority are concerned about their own cuts. At the same time as they cut the post of protection and preservation of peaced cultural memory, they ask to be kept informed about the impact of the cut. The normal thing is to add if you're worried about whether an area gets enough money, and not like the multiples here do, to cut. I also think it's a little strange that a person is trying to hide this cut as the plural actually does. I thought it would be more real if a giver told me what the cut would mean. We are now at the threshold of a new millennium. I think it gives us a chance to look back, look at our history, and then the question is what characterizes the century that we're now about to leave. I want to claim that among many things is not the least industrialization of Norway for the wealth that we can all share in today. I thought it was important to take care of that part of our cultural heritage that is related to industry and technical cultural memory. I am therefore sorry that it was not possible to get an increase in the benefit of these. And I find that the eagerness to preserve these cultural memories was more important to the government party when they were in opposition than is the case today. I hope they cut that the plural has done, won't interfere with industrial memory. Today, there have been a number of actions that the Government has completed and that they boast of. I would like to say that this list shows that the ambitions in this area are greatly reduced. I mean, the right thing would be to compare today's bet with these parties' bets when they were in opposition. Among other things, the growth rate of the governmentpartis more than half since 1997. It might have been interesting to get an answer to what it is that a person needs less than two years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e365	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e368	First, the small run-up to the financial debate that has been here. It's true that SV tightens less than the government parties, but that means that we have a different distribution policy than the government parties have. A good environmental policy must also be shared. So I just want to remind you that when we dealt with the revised national budget in ours, SV tightened up more than the government – and that was actually when we should have done it. Now most economists are asking questions about the major contraction that is now taking place, because it will probably end up in high unemployment. That's what we think is a serious question, and we don't want to risk it. We might have wanted a different tone in this debate and saw that it was possible to consider matters a little different than the government is doing now, in the pinched position they are obviously in. I'm busy with the time ahead. Can we believe that something will go better next year? Because that's what we want. Will the government then put environmental issues on the agenda and fight for them, even when they are in budgetary conciliation? Or will they continue to ridicule those who are still standing on the environmental issues and want to put them first? When you go into conciliation, you put some things in front of others, and obviously, the government has done that. I understand you have to do that. Some of us have experience of this from local politics. But then you also have to say that this wasn't the most important thing for us, we put it behind us. And that's in the context that cash support is still coming up. I want to say in response to what Gunnar Kvassheim said instead, that SV uses the cash support for everything. We're not doing that. Cash support has been used for kindergartens and activities for children and young people. I didn't intend to use it on the environmental budget. But the problem for the Government is that by committing themselves to this agreement, they have prevented us from going into conciliation with other parties and finding solutions that could have made us more involved in the environment. And that's what we're so sorry about has happened. So to major environmental issues that this government is dealing with. Instead, the Minister for the Environment mentioned a number of them, which she believed the Government had taken good care of. But she forgot one, and it was Regionfelt Eastland. So in my opinion, they have done half a job there, and unfortunately that job was too bad. In fact, they have said no in principle, but they have presented a message that is a one-sided defence for. They have not used their position in government to investigate alternatives. And they've been playing the ball right in the legs of all local actors who are too shooting field, just not in their municipality. And now you fight like a biker. Unfortunately, this government has not dealt with the important and great, perhaps the greatest natural protection issue in Norwegian history in such a way that we now have some very great hope of winning.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e384	Some words about predator management. The size has set itself the high goal of meeting our international obligations on protection while at the same time keeping both sheep and clean in the open. It goes without saying that there must then be a difficult balancing process that will require large resources for prevention, stock registration and regulation. I am therefore pleased that the Committee points out that the big community must take greater responsibility, including: the public responsibility to conduct stock management. In my view, we have left too much responsibility to the business community, which, together with the community, is now becoming the losing party. I think we have to think a little bit differently. In a far more active way, society must manage its predatory strains, make sure that it knows their size and that they are kept to an acceptable level. We also need to recognise that, in some places today, there is only one prevention measure that will work, namely to reduce the number of predators. There can be no doubt that in certain areas we have too many predators. We have seen a sharp increase in recent years. In parts of Northland, the yews are winning their final victory over both sheep farmers and reindeer. Lose 50-70 pst. has already caused many to give up, e.g. in Sagfjorden, where they have really tried to prevent. It has made a strong impression on me that, despite the losses, not to say the defeat, no one wants to clear out the yew. But the number of animals can and must be reduced, if necessary in an untraditional way. With the big sheep team we've had for a long time, some places we can't get out of some kind of minimum management if Storting's intentions are to be fulfilled. It imposes extra demands on continuous population registration, which the community must take the consequences from. I agree that we do not need a new comprehensive predatory debate, but there is a need for some innovation and a lot more money. The answer to the problems we are facing is not unwitting hunting, as someone in this room seems to want, but a planned management. If we don't do it, I'm afraid the protection work will be put under ever stronger pressure and in the long run lose completely. With the proposal for an increase in the allocation of 5 million. kr shows the Workers' Party that we take the predatory problems seriously. And once again, we can only be amazed at the center games, which recently had money for absolutely everything. Instead of supporting a proposal that would allow for an even more offensive management than the Government proposes, they clearly also rate here on some kind of cash support, namely compensation for losses. But as little as anyone can live on the cash support alone, someone can keep it going on just damages, neither economically nor morally. In this area, too, it must be far better to prevent damage than to pay compensation passively.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e399	I noticed that the representative Stoltenberg in his speech earlier today tended to oppose making this a financial debate. He spoke about the political priorities of the government parties in 1997, the need for greater tightening than we received last year, and also reminded us that the Workers' Party warned against lower oil prices. This is probably right. The Labour Party warned, but at the same time took decisions to extend the framework, both in the context of the 1997 budget and in the treatment of the revised national budget half a year ago. The Workers' Party accepted the extension of the framework. That is why the Labour Party must also take responsibility for this now and not blame the centre parties. I want to ask the representative Stoltenberg about what happened to the private consumption. We heard a strong message from the representative Gjul about how the private consumption has increased. In a period when interest rates should have started to rise slowly, Minister of Finance Stoltenberg put interest rates down together approximately. 1.5 pst. And in the same period, the debt-financed consumption increased by approximately. NOK 110 billion. This must involve the Workers' Party in taking responsibility for it. This was also said very clearly in the election campaign. Gunn Karin Gjul just referred to the significant increase in private consumption and what to do to get it down. Among other things, she referred to the electricity consumption, which has increased by 5 TWh. Then we have to remind ourselves of the proposal to increase the electricity charge and what the Workers' Party did with that proposal. In the case of the Adultås declaration, there is an agreement between three lots concluded after the election. On the other hand, the programme of the Workers' Party is a contract with the voters, and in this contract with the voters it is called: ‘The batch will normally generate electricity equivalent to the Norwegian electricity consumption using renewable energy sources. It shall be ensured that hydropower, energy saving and alternative forms of energy can make Norway independent of electricity imports from polluting energy production.’» So now this position is left, and the contract with the voters is broken. Now it is no longer the case that the gas power has to be exported, and now we are also going to cover our own ever-increasing power consumption with gas power. As a result, the objective of being able to meet the Norwegian electricity demand with its own electricity from renewable energy sources is also abandoned. This is not an emergency stop in environmental policy, it is really turning the car around and driving with full gas in the opposite direction. I also noticed that the representative Johnsen had problems controlling his temper when he referred to my satisfaction with the budget that the Government provided. I have to ask if this government storm he warned, is the Right's official political line now, or whether it's Rogaland's Right Department Solastrandens.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e424	I'll first say a little bit about what I drew to say a little bit about, and if I reach it, I'll comment a little bit on what the representative Rises said. What I designed was to clarify something about the reimbursement scheme for the document fee. In that case, a majority of the Committee in the vote in proposal IV is in favour of the Storting extending the time limit for the application for reimbursement of the document fee until 31 December 1998. Then I understood Arnstad that she and the Government are open to such an extension if we talked about the deadline for ownership decisions, i.e. the decision of the owners to go in for a reorganisation that could then form the basis for reimbursement of the document fee. If it is such that the Council of State can confirm that it is possible to extend that time limit for ownership decisions until 31 December 1998, that proposal may be converted into a transmission proposal, and that is the case out of the world. When it comes to the representative Rise, I just want to say: I am recording that the Christian People's Party believes that private consumption was too high in 1997. Then it is strange that the Christian People's Party is increasing consumption even more, from this very high level in 1998 to even a little more in 1999. You might want to be a little bit careful about going so far towards private consumption when you add up to a still massive growth in consumption. Of course, this is also the reason why electricity consumption is now growing more than in a very long time. Now what we're doing in Norway is that we can't agree on how to cover our own power consumption. The only thing we can agree on is to increase imports, and that's all batches against! And that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e440	Let me first be allowed to confirm, as I was also involved in my post earlier today, that I have registered that a majority in Stortinget expresses the desire to extend the deadline for reimbursement of the document fee to 31 December 1998. I take note that one then extends the deadline as a deadline for the decision of the owner relating to the reimbursement scheme. – So I can safely confirm that, as the committee leader expressed his wish. So a few words about a few of the things that have emerged in the debate. Firstly, a few words about the framework conditions on Norwegian continental shelf. It is kept under constant review in the Ministry. We are concerned that there should be acceptable framework conditions, whether there are higher oil prices or there is a more uncertain price picture, as we see in today's oil market. That is why the Government has now launched a project to monitor the competitiveness of the Norwegian continental shelf. Let's go through it. We have also decided to issue new extraction permits, which may allow new exploration activities in the years to come. We have so far not been willing to go in and assess the tax system, and that is because framework conditions are far more than just the issue of taxation. To bring down the tax conditions would be unfortunate all the time we have a reasonably flexible tax system on Norwegian continental shelf. We have a more flexible tax system on Norwegian continental shelf than we have on British continental shelf, in the sense that we can see more fields in context, both fields that are in an expansion phase, and fields that are in a production phase. I notice very well that there are divided opinions in the Storting about the concrete tax proposals proposed by the Government, but we did not have the opportunity to go further in an agreement with the Right and the Advance Party. Stoltenberg raised the question of the use of oil revenues. Let me also say two words about it. I agree with the considerations he came up with, and I want to mention that the oil-corrected deficit in next year's budget is actually lower than it has ever been. There is also a sign that we are using less and less of the oil revenues in the Norwegian state budget and are therefore also less dependent on the oil sector than before. Let me mention the investment appropriations – which I was in my post, but there I got a little too little time – because we've had debates in Stortinget on that earlier. Investment estimates have been associated with extra uncertainty this year, due to the sharp fall in oil prices. It contributes to increasing the uncertainty surrounding the time and budgeting of licences. I have already said that so far we see a trend towards an increase in investment estimates for 1999 compared to the national budget, but we need to get closer to the Stortinget in the revised national budget with final forecasts about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e451	It was in many ways a little unfortunate that it was first in the closing rounds that this debate got a little temperature, and it was then initiated by the representative Jan Johnsen, who spoke to the Stortinget in capital letters, and that was so much okay. What was the problem was that it was hard to understand what Jan Johnsen really meant. He said on the one hand that we were bathing in opportunities for energy using alternatives to what we have today. At the same time, Jan Johnsen is the leading builder of Upper Otta, and is the leading builder of gas power plants on most street corners. He said at the same time that he wanted to bear this government, which he himself has just supported, out of the government offices, to complain at the next moment that this government does not have a majority in the Stortinget. The sum total is left with a message from the representative, Jan Johnsen, who essentially has the form of a single big question mark. So to the representative Gunn Karin Gjul, who spent a lot of his time on a massive attack on what she defined as the government party's betrayal of environmental policy, referring to what is stated in the Adult Declaration, and other things for which the government parties must have expressed themselves. There's reason to remind Gunn Karin Gjul that the program she went to choose on is a contract with the Workers' Party's voters. The national meeting of the Workers' Party has now made a mid-term change and opened up the possibility of using gas for domestic consumption. I know it's a decision that Gunn Karin Gjul himself regrets. However, despite tightening budgets, the Government has managed to maintain its main priorities in the energy and environmental sectors. With regard to priority for an additional and alternative energy, there are proposals for significant increases. We have invited Stortinget to participate in measures that can reduce electricity consumption and have among other things. set up the electricity charge, an instrument we have great faith in would be effective. So finally to Karin Andersen, who, like his party colleague Langeland, refers to cash support as an obstacle to increased investment in the environment, and who claims that the squeeze in which the government parties have put themselves through an agreement with the Advance Party and the Right, prevents us from entering into cooperation in a different direction. To that it is to say that this is not the problem of the government parties, but that it is a problem that we have a party in the Storting that does not accept that there is a majority in the Storing that has agreed to this agreement, and that at the same time forms a majority behind the law. It's a bigger problem for that party than it is for the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e461	Like Gunnar Breimo, I agree that the questions about predatory game are important, not least because we have a common responsibility to try to combine two seemingly conflicting considerations, namely to maintain a viable population of the four largest predators, while at the same time we are committed to using outreach for both sheep and pure, probably the most sensible and environmentally friendly meat production we can have. It has been the government's idea that the most important thing we could do in this area was to increase the funding for stock registration. The reason for that is simple. There is a relatively large disagreement about how many predators we have of the different species. So once we've chosen to increase this post, it's for us to enable ourselves to, among other things. to track snow and get as precise knowledge as possible about how many predators we have. We have also done a number of important things about prevention. Among the things we've done is that we've opened the way for the extraction of pests and, to a large extent, have also delegated the power to this locally. What we are doing now is to carry out a broad evaluation of the situation after the year's grazing season, where, in addition to going through loss patterns and what we need to know about the populations, we are interested in having a proper evaluation of the prevention measures, not least to get knowledge of who works well, what kind of transfer value they have and where they may be transferred. It is also the case that the sum of compensation has increased, and the draft legal text of the statutory right to compensation is being consulted. In the end, I just want to say two sentences about the region field of Eastern Europe. If I didn't say so instead, it must have been a mistake. But I think it's important to stress that the reason for the government's failure to recommend the options is that we have documented that there are major natural interventions. I find it hard to understand that the documentation could not help those who are engaged in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e470	First of all, the documentation contained in the impact assessment for the Eastern Region, which is located in all the hearing bodies, is good. But one doesn't find it in the main message. There's a really save on paper and not taken with good environmental arguments against, but tried to minimize them. One has systematised it in such a way that one has zeroed out many of the important environmental policy appeal points. It's regrettable, but we who want to fight this, are helping to better understand these facts during the Groeting. So to the representative Rahm, who says it's not the government that has a problem, but there's obviously someone else who has a problem, because the government has concluded a cash support agreement with the Right and the Advance Party, and now one has also concluded other agreements with the same parties. The problem is that they have entered into an agreement that they say they cannot break, and they have raised it to the most important thing, because it should always be at the bottom – it should always be there. I have heard that the Workers' Party has said that they are willing to negotiate this cash support and look at the possibilities of leading parts of it further, and we in SV have also signaled that we could imagine that. But I have not heard at all a single signal from the Government about how it might think of positioning itself in this matter to get out of this squeeze. Because in the tight government parties are now sitting, they are not going to do anything about environmental policy that could mean a change, nor are they getting done anything about distribution policy, which I think is almost as regrettable. So the problem is not that one has got this case through once, but the problem is that one has signed up with other parties on agreements that they say they can't break, and then they're going to force this case through first, in front of all other matters. And if it's not in front of all other things – if that's the signal that's coming, that it's not the most important – you're told that this agreement we have to go away from, because there are other things that are more important. But as long as the government parties sail continue to deal with this one matter in the way that one does, it becomes the one that becomes the most important, and the one that gets to rule everything. Unfortunately, then, we do not find solutions to environmental policy, nor do we find solutions to a number of other issues. Therefore, it would have been important if representatives of the Government or government parties today had given clearer signals as to what direction they might expect to go environmental policy, who they think is the alliance partners to get there – a little bit about where they might think they would go to get this. They don't. Now they just close their eyes to these realities and keep leaving it with the Right Party and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e477	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 4 - 6. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e485	It shall then be put to the vote in the case No. 4-6.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e492	Twelve proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 8, by Jens Stoltenberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 2, 5, 6, 7, 11 and 12, by Hallgeir Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 3, by Lars Rise on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left Proposals No. 4, 9 and 10, by Øyvind Waksdal, on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Right The President will first address the Framework Area 12 and then the Framework Area 13. Minority proposals independent of the budgetary framework are first taken under each framework area, and proposals for Roman Num Decisions outside the budgetary framework are finally taken under each framework area. Are there any contradictions to this procedure? – It is not, and that is how it will be done. We start with minority proposals in Framework Area 12. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 5, 6 and 7 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the Planning and Building Act, the building regulations and relevant guidelines with a view to increasing energy efficiency and ensuring increased use of alternative renewable energy carriers.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to explore the possibilities to finance an increase in private households’ actions over the network lease.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of a labelling system that demonstrates energy use in all household products and establishes minimum standards that will help to remove the most energy-efficient products from the market.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e538	Proposal No. 4, from the Advancement Party and the Right, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the conversion of Statkraft SF and Statnett SF into limited liability companies and the opening of private capital.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e552	Proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left, will be recorded together with the setting I under B.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e1386	There are two different proposals here. That is proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party: ‘I. The 1999 budget provides for: Chapter.PostDestinationCronesCronesExpenditure1800Ministry of Olives and Energy [[(see section 4.4). cap. (Rule 5440)]] Revenues4810Directorate of Oil [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2440)]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e3144	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left: ‘Approval of projects in the Norwegian continental shelf The majority agrees that in 1999 the King may authorise projects on Norwegian continental shelf under the following conditions: The project must not have any principal or social implications. Upper limit of total investments per year project represents 3 billion. krones. Each project must demonstrate acceptable socio-economic viability and be reasonably robust against changes in the price evolution of oil and natural gas. There must be ad hoc cover for investments under cap. 2440 Direct economic involvement of the State in the petroleum industry.»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e3200	Then we're dealing with IV, which is transformed into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘IVIt is recommended that the Government extend the period for applications for reimbursement of the document fee until 31.12.98.’; The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e3217	It is the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right that are behind this Roman number.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e3228	So we're going to go to area 13 and we're starting with the minority proposals. We first deal with voting proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The magnitude is known of the positive effects of liming on life in water and watercourses and asks the Government to increase efforts in this area.’ Here the Progress Party has announced its support.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e3246	Proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to strengthen research on environmental impacts related to the operation of fish farms.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e3258	Proposals Nos. 9 and 10, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, shall be taken up for parturition. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to draw up a plan for the gradual sale of the State’s holdings in Norwegian Waste Management AS.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to separate the commercial activities of the Staten Kartverk as its own company. The new company is transformed into a limited liability company and sold.»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e4997	There is an aberrant proposal, No. Eight, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I. The 1999 budget provides for: Chapter.PostDestinationCronesCronesExpenditure1400Ministry of the Environment [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5491 and 5603)]] Income4400Ministry of the Environment [[(see section 4.4). cap. 1441)]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e6693	The vote will be taken first on this proposal and then on the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07-2.ana.ud94e6716	Here the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against it.
