ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24-lower.ana.ud2207e35	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are processed – and considered to be agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24-lower.ana.ud2207e56	The first case we have to deal with today concerns the revision of a law that has had and will get a lot to say to most of the communities in Norway. The base of Ot. pp. No 57 for 1997-98 is among others a selection work presented in the autumn of 1995, entitled ‘Future work of the Land Change Agency’. Attention has been paid to these hearings. It's been about. 25 years ago worked with the law that we have today, starting. Much has happened in agriculture and society in those years or so. The importance of off-road industries, garden tourism and the construction of forest roads have changed their capacities to a large extent. Environmental conditions have also gained a stronger position, both in general opinion and in legislation. An important principle of legislative change is that one will try to meet societal needs in relation to basic conditions in an effective way, so that the parties are least affected. A landowner can also acquire new land instead of money compensation through land change. There is a broad consensus in the Committee that the right to change the land is passed on as a special court. This is also in line with the overall increase in 1993. The Committee is in favour of providing a general opportunity for the public to demand land change, land change, in connection with development measures. In such cases, the right to land change is discretionary, and the premise will be that the area plus damages and disadvantages will be replaced by the area. To get this done, it's important that one of these things secures the right area where the ratio is right for this. The experiences that have been done in the last years of a shift in the world of traffic are good. Especially at the Gardermoen project, including the running of the track, it has been found that this shifting of land in such cases is both socially and privately beneficial. The rules on operational arrangements and common measures, such as hunting, fishing, grazing, road, gravel and cabins, have been improved in important areas. A new rule is introduced to the effect that the individual party in the strata of the right to change the earth only binds for its own part in relation to the third party. The problem of land renting has reached a monthly level in Norway today. Here the bill has new rules. If rentals and landowners are some, and the lease contract is longer than 10 years at the time the land change was made, landowners may require the leased land to be designed as part of his operating base. The rules of procedure are now largely harmonised with the general law of discretion. The parties' legal certainty seems to be improved in this way. A joint committee has pointed to the danger that the contact between land change rights and the powers of public plan boards can become too close, which in turn may lead to unclear distinctions between administration and the right to land change. The Committee therefore asks the Ministry to follow developments in this area closely. When it applies to Inst. O. No 13, to Ot. pp. No 5 for 1998-99, this fixed the fees that are now to be paid for cases under the named Land Change Act. A proposal to introduce the same principle as in the Law on Fees, where the claimant of a case has an obligation to cover all expenses. expert and special investigations. The economic impact of the bill has been estimated at about an increase in revenue. Six million. kr. Of this, the fee is approx. 3.5 million. kr. The economic effects are already included in St. Prp. No 1 under cap. 4145.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24-lower.ana.ud2207e90	The Workers' Party has noted that many of those who have been heard in connection with the Ministry's work on the changes to the Land Change Act have expressed a positive opinion on the experience with land change. Emphasis is placed on both private and socio-economic impacts of using land change as an instrument in issues where the public needs land in one context or another. It is natural in many ways that most hearing parties are positive to the system of earth change. A landowner with agricultural property will almost always be occupied by landslides rather than expropriation, because the land is the basis of the landowner’s business. If the farm is to be able to operate, it must be possible to have sufficient area. At the same time, it can be argued that this dependence is also in many ways at the heart of the criticism that some people raise against the law on land change, namely that this dependence raises the question of the legal position of landowners. If one fails a land change, the option will often be expropriation. It is claimed that there are few situations in which landowners accept a decision in the right to land change despite a feeling of ill-treatment, because the option may appear to be even worse. The Labour Party has taken note of the letter sent to the Committee by the Norwegian Judicial Association and the Norwegian Law Association on 28 September this year. This shows that these associations are very much concerned about the role of the right to change in relation to the principle of the independence of the courts. In particular, the Norwegian Judicial Association and the Norwegian Law Association are concerned about what they experience as a bond between the law of the land change and the relevant planning authority. In its letter, the Norwegian Judicial Association and the Norwegian Law Association draw the following conclusion: ‘We believe that, instead of continuing the clumsy extension of the jurisdiction of the land change court, the time has now come to review in principle the whole system of a specialised court for the types of cases in question and the relationship with the planning authorities. ‘... There's a reason to take note of this statement. At the same time, the Workers' Party will point to all the hearing bodies which have expressed a positive opinion on the practical functioning of the right to land change. These opinions come from both organisations representing a significant number of owners and from several counties. In this context, I assume that the county offices have also been able to assess the question of how the different parties in a land change case are being protected their legal interests, just as I assume that, for example, they are. The Norwegian Confederation is also engaged on behalf of all its members. The opinions indicate that the system in relation to the right to change is working well from the perspective of the users. Of course, there must be a great deal of emphasis when Odelstinget is dealing with these changes today. Nevertheless, it should be interesting to see the judgments of the Court of Justice and of the Court of Justice in relation to these principal aspects of the right to change. However, the working party will not await these assessments until the proposed changes to the Land Change Act are addressed. The changes in the propositions appear to be a natural consequence of social developments in this area. The Workers' Party will also stress that public interest in land is growing, not least in relation to the increased environmental interests that the State wishes to pursue. In this context, it is clear, in the view of the Workers' Party, that land change can often serve as a means of reducing conflicts and increasing local involvement in the environmental challenge at stake, and not least in relation to the relatively extensive deforestation protection that is now being implemented, that the Workers' Party would stress the importance of land change as an instrument for ensuring both environmental and industrially important conditions. The working party has noted in particular the mention of the extensive land change that took place in connection with the expansion of the Gardermoban and the new main airport at Gardermoen. We agree that land change appears to be an appropriate instrument in relation to such major societal interventions. Therefore, there is every reason to gain experience from this land change when government starts planning other similar matters. In such major parcels of land, the outcome will often depend on the country’s ability to have sufficient free space on its own that may be part of the work of the land change court in the case in question. Here, the state as the landowner will often be challenged. The Workers' Party would point out that the State is a major landowner, not least through Statskog, but also an institution such as the Information Society's fund. The Ministry of Agriculture has carried out an evaluation of how Statskog operates after the transformation into state enterprises in relation to the objectives set by the Stortinget in this transformation. In this context, it will be interesting whether the Ministry also assesses whether and, where appropriate, how State Forest will operate in future in land parcels where the State has significant interests. The same would also be true of an institution such as the Information Society's fund and, where appropriate, other governmental bodies. The Working Party will recommend that the Committee be set up in the two cases in question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24-lower.ana.ud2207e121	The proposals in the proposal to extend the work of the right to change will help to strengthen the legal certainty of individual landowners. Most of the hearing bodies also take a positive view of this in the light of experience with land change. Nor is there any doubt that land-exchange will be an appropriate instrument for many landowners as part of achieving efficient and rational use of resources. Therefore, it must be considered beneficial that land owned by the public authorities can be used to compensate private owners for the land change. From a principle point of view, it must be more appropriate to replace lost area with new area rather than to convert lost area into a payment of money. The progressing party regards the right to land change as a suitable body for this purpose. The Redsmoen thing was a big land change thing. In connection with the establishment of Rena clay, the defence building service and the landowners concerned entered into an agreement to resolve the land issue by means of land exchanges rather than traditional expropriation with money substitutes. The Christie Committee, which has assessed the experience of Red Smoen, says that this land change case has been carried out in a way that appears to be successful in its entirety. Furthermore, the committee says that it is likely that the State saved money by carrying out land-exchange acquisitions rather than traditional replacements. Both parties can thus come out well. The country can make money to carry out land exchanges rather than traditional replacements. The landowner, who often has an agricultural property, also has advantages because the land is the basis of existence. The further development of the right to land change with extended tasks now proposed provides opportunities to establish alternative solutions to land and property-related problems. The bill allows the right of land change to measure the compensation for the loss incurred by the owner of the land by assigning the property an area value equivalent to that of the loss. Some hearing bodies have correctly expressed concerns about what they consider to be a binding link between land change rights and planning authorities. But in this respect, we know that the Court Commission and the Committee of the Court of Justice will assess the principal aspects of this, and the result will be presented at a later stage. In any case, the progressing party emphasises the positive experience of land change and will, on this basis, join the setting of changes in the Land Change Act.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24-lower.ana.ud2207e136	The purpose of the Earth Change Institute is to transform property and rights to make better use of the properties included in a land change. Since this scheme was established early in the last century, it has had a major impact on the value creation of agriculture and forestry. The removal of blending pots and the distribution of rights and general government has been important for the preparation and consolidation of property. Clear and practical property is of great importance for private initiative and for value creation. When the farmer and the small user themselves reap the fruits of their own work and have rational units to work on, both the motivation and the economic benefits increase. Much of the land change gains are far too high, and it may seem that the land change rights are largely concerned with many issues that have marginal private and socio-economic gains. According to Section 3 of the Land Change Act, land change is not to be promoted ‘if the costs and disadvantages are greater than the benefits of each individual property’. So the Land Change Act has a clear private economic objective. The Land Change Act shall promote economically appropriate holdings and contribute to clearly defined property rights. In the light of several individual cases where the use of land change by landowners or rightholders has been negligent, I find it reasonable to stress that there must be a clear and demonstrable private economic gain in order to keep a land change. That is not always the case today. The right, therefore, looks forward to an overall review of the remaining work and form of work of the right. On the right, it is positive that landowners who lose land by expropriation decisions are compensated for by a land change with the public. Experience has shown that, in such cases, landowners receive better and more appropriate compensation than in the ordinary settlement of claims. I note that the many good experiences with such landslides, for example. in relation to the Gardermout construction, the background to the Ministry’s proposal to extend the scope of the right to land change in ex-propriation cases. The right is skeptical of the Ministry's proposal to extend the current system of trade-related land change in Section 6 of the Land Change Act to so-called Oreigning Land Change. The proposal extends the competence to require land change in the context of development measures to public governance powers with expropriation barriers, regardless of the nature of the action. I believe that this raises clear fundamental concerns about the often subordinate relationship of the right to land change with public planning and regulatory authorities. When taking its decisions, the right to land change must in practice have the approval of the municipal authorities and clarify whether any decision is in accordance with existing and future municipal plan decisions. That process may imply that municipal planning authorities not only premise the recognition of the right to land change but actively contribute to the final outcome. In cases where the municipality itself is a party to the case or later becomes a party to cases for which the judgment in question is relevant, the impotence of the court is doubtful. The present proposal may help to reinforce these concerns. In this respect, I refer to the views of the Norwegian Judiciary Association and the Norwegian Law Association on the Ministry's proposal expressed in a letter of 28 September 1998 to the Economic and Social Committee: ‘If this proposal is adopted, municipalities will necessarily become parties to many § 6 cases, as expropriant. We are particularly concerned about a system whereby the municipality of A in a case involving land change acts as a judicial remedy against the land change court's plan decision, and in the next case as a defendant in a § 6 case. In principle, the scheme also seems to allow the municipality to review the same case in retrospect, for example. if the marshalling plan which terminates the marshalling parcel contains measures which fall within the scope of the previously mentioned regulations. Such a system is legally unacceptable. ‘... Right-wing share these views far along the way, and there is a need for a fundamental review of how the tasks assigned to the right to land change can best be solved. However, pending a more fundamental review of all aspects of the functioning and future of the right to land change, the Right will, in view of the obvious benefits that landowners often derive from land change in expropriation cases, nevertheless join the Government's proposal for changes to the law on land change. In the proposal, the Ministry estimates that the proposed amendments to the Law on Land Change and some other extensions to the work of the Land Change Rights require more than 30 new annual works. The right considers that the right to land parcels must make a more stringent priority between different land parcels and refrain from dealing with cases where the private economic benefits of a shift are marginal. Instead, the resources saved in this way should be used for the tasks now assigned to the right to land change. I would like to signal that we will therefore be voting against increased appropriations due to the proposed extension of the scope of the right to land parcels. I repeat the need for a fundamental and comprehensive review of the role of the right to land change, and hope that the Government will follow up as soon as possible the strong and unanimous desire of the Committee for such a review.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24-lower.ana.ud2207e156	I am pleased that an overall committee concludes on the proposal for the revision of the 1979 Law on Change of Land and also on the firm review of the subject matter under consideration by the rapporteur. As a result of the audit, public authorities can now generally require land change in the context of development measures. The proposal builds on, inter alia: on the positive experience gained from the so-called shifts in traffic. In this connection, I refer to the evaluation of the foundation work in the Gardermo case. There is also reason to point to the recent setting of an evaluation of the soil change issue on Rena clay, Rødsmoen. The main message seems to be that both landowners and builders prefer land change rather than traditional expropriation in larger public land acquisitions. The legislative review also allows the protection authorities to require land change. We are facing major challenges in the implementation of deforestation. In my opinion, land-exchange through land-change could be a very good alternative to expropriation based on cash payments in these very large and land-intensive cases. The amendments also allow municipalities to require land change in connection with housing, schools, industry, outdoor activities, sports facilities, etc. I see it as particularly important that landslides can now become a well-suited instrument in the decommissioning of private railway crossings. With the introduction of high-speed trains, we may face the closure of several thousand such transitions. I also refer to the tragic accidents we have had in recent times on such transitions. The Lantmeterive, which can almost be called a sister organisation of the Land Change Agency, has proved to be a suitable and effective body in the implementation of such measures in Sweden. One of the main objectives of agricultural policy is to: have been able to create sustainable use, reduce cost levels and increase emphasis on environmental considerations. I have noticed that the Committee believes that further development of the right to land change is at the heart of such a change. I agree with the committee on this. However, I would like to stress that the right to change is a special court which must build its activities on fundamental principles of law. I am reasonably convinced that through this revision we have found the right balance between these considerations. I have noticed that the Committee deals with the relationship between the right of land change and public authorities. I would like to emphasise again that the operation of the right of land change is to be carried out on the basis of general principles of law. The Ministry will closely monitor developments in this area. The property design objective paragraph is linked to a more time-consuming and dynamic efficiency criterion than before. The environmental protection paragraph will be expanded and reinforced. For the first time in the history of the law on land change, provisions are introduced to allow the entry of land leased into the plan. When landowners and landowners agree and the lease term is more than 10 years, leased land may be included in landowner design. An owner may also require that his property be designed for renting land. The rights to land change amount to approx. 150 land-ownership teams in relation to issues relating to the use scheme and joint actions. Under the applicable law, the form of liability of these teams is based on joint and several liability. On a proposal in the proposal, the form of liability of each party shall now be limited to his or her share in the case. Investment measures that could lead to a high risk of loss, such as: commercial cabin construction and raw material extraction shall no longer be possible after a decision on the right to land shunting has been taken. The task of the Court of First Instance shall be to be the facilitator. The parties shall be required by majority decisions to implement such plans. Any implementation will require the establishment of an operating company and the minority will be secured income based on market value. In my opinion, these changes are an important innovation. The legal certainty of the parties has been central to the audit process. A number of changes are therefore being made to strengthen it. A new form of decision is being introduced, which is of major importance in this respect. The corresponding procedural provisions and justifications will be put in place. I have seen it as important to introduce access to take up a land change case under the general provisions of the Dispute Settlement Act. I have seen it as at least as important to allow the parties to resume a land change case on the basis of changes in the administrative assumptions on which a land change plan might have to be based. In the course of the legislative process, two conditions have been of fundamental importance: One relates to the assumption that a private economic gain should be created at a land change. The second is the so-called loss guarantee clause, which ensures that no party can lose by becoming a party to a land change. These important conditions are continued and shall be taken into account in all future land parcels. The unanimous committee position is of great importance for the continued work of the Land Change Agency, and I also see it as a tribute to the trusting and important work carried out by the Land Change Rights throughout the country. It is important to note that those who use this law give positive feedback, which to me, as the Council of State is one of the most important arguments that this is a useful instrument as it works today. I would also like to add that what is being done through the right to land change in this way is socially sound work. So a small remark in the end when it comes to major issues where land change is used, which is referred to in the setting and to which I have also referred in my article. Obviously, it is assumed here that the public has land to be able to participate in that type of land change. So in matters that you know are coming, it's important that the public has this in mind when the property is for sale, because it can be used in the kind of trades when we're going to possibly do such grips as it's referred to, and that's been positive in relation to this setting as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24-lower.ana.ud2207e192	No more people have asked for the floor to speak on the matter. 1 and 2. [[Footing, see page 57]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24-lower.ana.ud2207e206	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to five minutes per group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual posts, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to three minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24-lower.ana.ud2207e209	The proposals for a change in this case were presented in the Official Journal of the European Communities. No 1 Appendix No 3 for 1997-98. The size joined these. The Committee supports the legislative changes addressed by the proposal. Changes in the laws mean, inter alia: the requirement that father must have been in work during the last two weeks immediately before his period of social security starts to rise is removed. These changes mean that father's professional activity is linked to the time when his period of benefits begins. This change means that the vesting period for both mother and father could be linked to the time when each of them begins its part of the social benefit period. The changes in the law also imply the introduction of a right to maternity and adoption benefits for people who are in a job-like situation and who receive a salary from the employer. It also provides for the harmonisation of rights between adoptive parents and biological parents. These changes include, inter alia,: adoption parents are now entitled to adoption benefits regardless of whether their father has been active, i.e. equivalent to what their biological parents currently have. Furthermore, the Committee welcomes the fact that parental quotas for adoptive parents are to be in line with those for other fathers. Finally, I would like to go into the comment from the Progress Party. The Progress Party believes that parents who are out-of-work and parents who work at home are entitled to the same rights. This implies that all current transfers to families with children should be neutral and that everyone should receive the same amount from the public. I would like to ask how the Progress Party intends to put this into practice. Absence in the case of a child's disease is, for example: a right of employees today. With the proposals of the Advance Party, the residents shall receive equivalent payments or proof from the State. Furthermore, the Progress Party believes that the support from the State should be so large that one has the opportunity to opt out of a labour income. I think there is reason to ask the Progress Party about what kind of costs this will have for society, and about how the practical device should be? I think that the cash support will be a small matter in this perspective. Although I know that the Progress Party believes that Norway has won Lotto, I see no economic reality in order to achieve such an arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24-lower.ana.ud2207e226	It's true, as the Labour Party representative points out, that the Advance Party wants to focus on what you can call the entrance ticket in order to receive birth money. It is also true that the Progress Party attaches great importance to the neutrality of transfers to families with children, so that the distribution is equal to that of the public, irrespective of income and social status. If one had followed such a principle, one would not only have achieved justice, but one would also have gained greater resources for distribution through a much simpler regulation and a much simpler system of distribution. I understand that the Labour Party has a number of problems in interpreting the comment from the Advance Party, and I can probably be willing to admit that there may be some problems. But if one divides the note into two, it should be simple. In the first part of the note, we point to the main desire of the Advance Party for an equal distribution of birth money. The second part of the note is related to the Workers' Party's incorporated system. Even in the Progress Party, we realise that it may be difficult to get a majority in favour of the proposal that I will be promoting later, and that is why we have attached the note to today's system. We point to the fundamental view of the Advance Party in terms of popular security, that it should have an insurance element and that it should be decisive. It will primarily make unnecessary speculations about who should have the rights. It is true that what is stated in the proposition – the opinion that also shares the Progress Party – is that it pays a premium, one must also be entitled to benefits. This means that the birth and adoption allowance will automatically apply to persons who are in work-related situations. Once again, when criticism comes from the Workers' Party, I have to be allowed to refer to the Central Bureau magazine Societal mirror, which goes a bit historically to work, and looks at the distribution that the Workers' Party has stood for. Initially, it says that the subsidies to the families of children have benefited parents with higher incomes. That's exactly what the Progress Party wants to live. We want one regardless of whether a profit is $200,000 or $1 million. kr, shall have the same in payment of birth grant. Now, the situation is that those who have been so fortunate, or have prioritised their career and profession and have high incomes, can receive up to NOK 250,000 in birth grants, while those who have prioritised a little different, and have one income and actually pay the same in taxes and taxes as those with two incomes, shall not be entitled to these birth grants. It's a little strange that the Workers' Party kind of equates birth with sickness. The result of the system built up by the Workers' Party is exactly the same as for parental deductions: more deductions, more transfers to those with the highest income. If the Workers' Party still wants to criticise the Advance Party because we want a more cohesive distribution of the funds that the public is going to spend on the families of children, it will be on their account. Finally, I would like to put forward the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24-lower.ana.ud2207e237	The representative Per Sandberg has looked forward to the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24-lower.ana.ud2207e240	This bill corrects some unparalleled circumstances in connection with performances at birth and adoption. Changes proposals were also presented in St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 3 for 1997-98. The central government is promoting in our proposal on changes in the People's Security Act Chapter 14 on the benefits of birth and adoption. These changes include: the removal of the requirement that father must have been in work for the last two weeks before his period of benefits begins. It has been that if the father has been unemployed just before the leave starts, he has lost the right to birth money. Those who have become the frame of this have felt very unfair, and it is positive that it is adopted as amended by law. In addition, the introduction of birth and adoption rights is proposed for people who are in a work-like relationship and who receive pay from employers. It has been such that they are like, for example, has a salary from an employer under educational leave, has not been considered to be economically active in relation to birth legislation. It's positive that this is now changing. Furthermore, there are some differences in the legislation on birth and adoption money that the centre part is not found to be reasonably justified. For example, none of the parents have the independent right to receive adoption money. At birth the mother has such an independent right. The central government proposes that adoptive mother be given the independent right to receive adoption money. In addition, some other harmonisations of the rules on the right to maternity and adoption are proposed. It is proposed to change the timing of the ignition of birth and adoption money, so that the ignition time for women and men is limited to the time when the period of benefit takes place instead of the time of birth. It is positive that the Committee supports the legislative changes addressed by the proposal. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to have a family policy that facilitates the greatest possible amount of time for children and parents together. It is also important to pursue a policy that provides a good opportunity to combine professional activity and childcare. I'm pleased with the centre government's high priority of this, and I'm glad that the Storting joins the proposed legislative changes. When it comes to the Progress Party's proposal, I think it's important to have the paid maternity leave that we have today, and the one-time allowance for home workers at birth. It was a lot lower than it is now some years ago. The Christian People's Party has worked actively to increase it, and we think it is right that we have a single-time support as we have today, but also that we take care of the paid maternity leave. Both systems are important.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24-lower.ana.ud2207e257	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 64]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24-lower.ana.ud2207e265	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-3.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24-lower.ana.ud2207e917	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24-lower.ana.ud2207e924	The legislative decision will be sent to the Saving Decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24-lower.ana.ud2207e1000	The President would like to make a little point about a correction here. The following should be entered: « § 74 current eighth and ninth paragraphs are new ninth and tenth paragraphs. ‘... It was also recommended that:
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24-lower.ana.ud2207e1034	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24-lower.ana.ud2207e1041	The legislative decision will be sent to the Saving Decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24-lower.ana.ud2207e1047	During the debate Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Progress Party, presented the proposal included in the vote on page 4. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks for proposals for legislative changes that provide equal benefits to young children’s parents at birth and adoption, irrespective of income and occupational activity. ‘... This proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24-lower.ana.ud2207e1330	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24-lower.ana.ud2207e1337	The legislative decision will be sent to the Saving Decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24-lower.ana.ud2207e1346	There is no record available.
