ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e36	The representatives of Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, Gunnar Kvassheim and Per Ove Width, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e50	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e55	I'd like to suggest Ursula Evje and Per Ove Wideth.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e60	Ursula Evje and Per Ove Width are proposed as presidents of the current week's meetings. – Other proposals are not available, and Ursula Evje and Per Ove Width are unanimously elected as chairmen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e68	The representative, Tore Nordtun, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e71	On behalf of Jan Johnsen, Jan Simonsen and myself, I want to promote a Document No. 8 proposals for changes of the Ministry of the Environment to Stavanger municipality's spatial plan.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e77	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e91	Before the summer holiday, the capital increase decided that the income from corporate tax in the future would be due to the State and not to the municipalities. This Decision will have significant financial implications for several municipalities in Rogaland. For example, the municipality of Sol will lose approx. Nine million. kr annually. In the future, the loss could be even greater because the income from corporate taxes from the municipalities of Northern Ireland is expected to grow, among others. because the business community in this district has good business cycles. In the case of Solas, the situation is that several large enterprises have recently moved their head offices to the municipality, and large enterprises in the municipality have made significant investments in recent years. In a few years’ time — when these investments are tax written off — businesses will have greater tax profits and pay more taxes than today. Stavanger Municipality has received from 5 to 10 pst in recent years. of its tax receipts from corporation tax. Of course, municipalities can get the loss of tax revenue from corporation tax compensated by increased transfers and changes in taxpayers. However, this means that the revenues of municipalities will depend to a lesser extent than in the past on the local authorities' own efforts, for example through the organisation of new start-ups and the operation of existing businesses through the organisation of land, the development and improvement of the land and other infrastructure. The dependence of the municipalities on the State will be reinforced, contrary to, for example, the Central Party's programme, which says: "The Central Party believes that municipalities should be made less dependent on the State." At the same time, of course, municipalities will become less interested in establishing and developing industrial activities. It will be more profitable to prioritise the use of land for residential purposes rather than for commercial purposes and to focus on the feeling that surrounding municipalities are more responsible for providing jobs. Such developments will not promote the desire for full employment, but will lead to increased unemployment in the long term. For the municipality of Stavanger, the loss of corporate tax has been particularly unfortunate, as it coincides with the refusal of the Ministry of Environment to build a sufficient number of housing for the inhabitants of the city. Following the recommendation of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of the Environment has used the planning and building laws to amend Stavanger City Council decision of 29 September 1997 on the area area of the municipal plan, so that there will be no new residential areas in the Madla and the extension of the Forus industrial area. In other words, the Ministry of the Environment reduces the planned redeployment of 425 agricultural areas into construction areas. This happens despite Stavanger having already secured 95 pst. of the agricultural areas within the urban border with fixed limits on the spatial map. There are today more than 100 farms within Stavanger municipality's border. Stavanger is today Norway's densest populated city with 2.7 people per year. 1000 m2 density area and the only Norwegian city that has increased its density in recent years. Stavanger has planned for a moderate growth of 1 pst. annual in the future. The Ministry of the Environment believes that growth can be reduced to 0.7 pst. per 1 % years, which is totally unrealistic as long as the growth in the region is twice as large. Another option for Stavanger will, of course, be to reconstruct the airholes for the population further by building down green lungs and large gardens. It will of course make Stavanger a less pleasant city to live in. The consequences of the fact that the municipality of Stavanger is forced to reduce housing to far below real needs will obviously be higher housing prices, with the consequences that we all know it will have for the private economy of people, the relocation of youth and social problems, as well as the poorer municipal economy and thus the poorer provision of the city's population. In other words, the Ministry of the Environment is destructive to Stavanger and to the well-being of its citizens. But that might not be the main point. The main point is the arrogance of power and the total lack of respect for local democracy as it is, of course, when a decision in a city council was made by 66 to 11 votes, as far as I remember, is set aside by a dictatorship of higher authorities. It was the Left, the Center Party and the SV that constituted the small minority in Stavanger City Government. Now it has clearly been appropriate for some of these parties to go through a government decree according to the best tradition of the old Communist states. Detail management by the Ministry of Environment is almost unlimited. For example, for the sake of curiosity, let me quote what the department writes about the planned residential area of Tasta in Stavanger, which the department accepts: ‘The main challenge is to find solutions that provide high land use while ensuring good common areas. In addition, it may be interesting to focus on environmentally friendly use of materials, reduced energy use, minimisation of parking areas, etc.» What is Stavanger to do with its own bureaucrats and politicians as long as the Ministry of the Environment's head of mission and Minister of Environmental Protection Guro Fjellang controls the city in detail? I have taken the liberty of lingering in the election programs of the government parties to see what these parties are telling the voters about what they think about local self-government. The Central Party states that ‘local elected bodies must be given increased authority and responsibility.’ Furthermore, ‘Better real power to elected bodies, not least in municipalities and county councils, is a prerequisite for people to find it meaningful to engage in political work and take responsibility for social development’. Both the Party of the Centre and the Party of the Minister for the Environment, Left, have programmed the need to lay down basic laws for local self-government. With as many centralist politicians in the Norwegian government as we have today, it could actually be a good idea, so we didn't get centralized from Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e124	In my opinion, this issue is about how to best practice a land policy that ensures a sustainable pattern of development in the long term. At the same time, it raises the question of what is the role of the Government in land policy: When is it legitimate to intervene in municipal planning processes? The vast majority of spatial plans in this country are adopted by local government. Each year, between 30 and 40 regulatory plans and municipal plans come to the Ministry of the Environment for decision because objections have been raised at county level. In approx. half of these cases are maintained under the decision of the local council. Conflicts in cases concern most areas of society, not just environmental protection. A few times we have found it necessary to intervene in our own approved plans, i.e. plans where no objection has been raised. This has been done in connection with regulation to the purchasing centre in the municipalities of Fjell and Sarpsborg. In order to ensure national landscape values, we have stopped a plan for pucking in the Jondal municipality, and we have assessed the road planning along the Sørfjorden in Ullensvang heread. And last we have this case in Stavanger. The principle of the Law on Planning and Buildings that decisions are to be made locally – in the vicinity of the people concerned – is firm. The Government's commitment to Local Agenda 21 is central to this. In addition, I can mention that in natural management matters, the transfer of authority to the municipalities is being carried out. Only exceptionally may it be appropriate for the Ministry to use the home to intervene in municipal planning processes. This will be particularly relevant when launching a new policy. In order to understand why we have chosen to actively address these issues, including Stavanger, St.meld. No 29 for 1996-97, regional planning and land policy. In the summer of 1997, when the Stortinge addressed this communication, which was promoted by the previous government, it was agreed that the following five policy premises should be given greater emphasis in regional planning. These are: consideration of biodiversity, consideration of development policies and transport systems, consideration of soil protection, consideration of aesthetics and landscape design, consideration of people with disabilities; Several of these challenges need to be addressed at regional level. Therefore, the Communication refocussses on county planning as a central tool for finding cross-border solutions. The need for such regional solutions is particularly great in urban areas with expansion pressures and valuable land resources. The Stavanger area or the Nord-Jären is one of the areas in the country where the need for regional solutions is greatest. There has been continuous investigation and planning cooperation over a number of years. A main task that remains is to agree on a long-term regional development pattern. Currently, a district plan for the North-Jear is being worked on. Following an application from Rogaland County Council, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment have provided financial support for this plan. I would like to pay tribute to all those who have contributed to regional cooperation flourishing, because this is a right and important way to go. Soil protection is one of the central areas of St.meld. No 29. The background for this is that well-suited areas for food production are a highly valuable and increasingly scarce resource both nationally and internationally. The Government therefore emphasises that the production capacity of land should be central to the balancing of land-use issues. Most of the areas suitable for the production of grain are located in the Mjösa countryside, the Oslofjorden and the Jären. It is therefore no coincidence that the Government feels a particular responsibility for the long-term land management in these areas. In this context, I would like to mention that the Ministry of the Environment, when dealing with objections in the last few years, has said no to the development of cultivated land in the municipalities of Hamar, Sandefjord, Sandnes and Fredrikstad. Through the work on these issues, the new land policy in St.meld. No 29 has been put into practice, and I have tried to ensure that the practice is as similar as possible. It is important to be aware that the municipality plan for Stavanger was at the hearing and for treatment in the County Agriculture Board before the St.meld. No 29 had been treated in Stortinget. As a fact, I can mention that there are only a small part of Stavanger Municipality Plan's area for the period 1998-2009 that is conflict filled. There are three residential areas at Madla on a total of 215 dekar and an extension of the Forus industrial area of approx. 200 deacons. The municipality is informed that we want to change the plan so that these areas are returned to agriculture. There is a broad consensus that the contested areas in Stavanger are best-quality soils in a climate zone with the best conditions for food production. According to the leaders of St.meld. No 29 there should therefore be very serious considerations to allow re-disposals of irreversible nature. After a thorough review of the municipality plan for Stavanger, I have come to the conclusion that it will be fully possible to meet the need for a localisation and socially differentiated housing offer through: the exploitation of existing landowners' re-regulation for the greater exploitation of the development of a urban centre in the Tasta area, in general, the tight implementation of urban renewal projects; It is important to be aware that the municipality has approx. 1500 decks in land reserves for housing, which were released during the previous planning period. In addition, 250 floor space for housing at Tasta is approved in this planning round. At the same time, the municipality assumes that the number of densities will decrease from approx. 400 dwellings per year to approx. 300. One reason for this is that the municipality has little control over this part of the housing structure, which is entirely privately initiated. I cannot see that the municipality of Stavanger has demonstrated that the potential for densification and land savings is satisfactorily exploited. During the planning period, the municipality contributes to a total of 7 500 dwellings – an average of 625 dwellings per person. years. It is assumed that 300 dwellings are built as densities. There will then be a need for 325 dwellings per person. years in new fields. The municipality expects it to be built on average two dwellings per year. dekar. This means that it is necessary approx. 162 covers new area for dwellings per year. years. The space reserve during the period of the plan, including the Key, is 1750 Dec. This means that the municipality can meet its housing needs in approx. eleven years ahead without being dependent on using the disputed areas of Madla. In other words, it is time to await the definition of the regional development pattern in a new North-Jear district plan. In addition, I can tell you that the state goes in with 21.6 million. kr for the construction of a new tunnel that will reduce traffic load in Stavanger centre. The project will also improve conditions for vulnerable road users and reduce traffic through the residential areas of Storhaug. The environmental improvement of this road project will provide opportunities for urban renewal and more attractive living environments in eastern Stavanger centre. In line with the above mentioned leadership, I maintain the principle that no further irreversible re-disposals of cultivated land are to be carried out until a regional development pattern has been specified and adopted through a district sub-plan. These signals were given to the municipality already by the Ministry of the Environment's handling of objections to the area area of the municipal plan for the period 1988–2003. I have noticed that the majority of Stavanger City Council focuses on the municipality's active role in urban housing policy. This is a line that we from the Government's side also add a lot of weight. Among other things in St.meld. No 49 for 1997-98, on housing for young and disadvantaged people, the Government has taken steps to ensure that local action plans for housing are drawn up. I can therefore fully support the relationship Stavanger City Council has pointed out when it comes to building a diverse housing structure with opportunities for good social and family networks. However, this is not an argument for building dwellings on valuable cultivated land on Madla. As mentioned earlier, the municipality has enough space to meet the housing needs during the planning period without having to use these areas. Let me finally sum up: When Stortinget adopted St.meld. No 29, Regional planning and land policy, increased emphasis was given to five areas of regional planning. One of them was soil protection. This government is emphasising on strengthening local democracy and anchoring environmental policies in local elected processes. Therefore, the Government, and has taken the initiative, wants to increase the use of the Law on Planning and Building in several areas. Decisions must be taken at the lowest possible level, which means in most cases at municipal level. However, if a plan decision has major regional implications, decisions must be taken at regional level. And if the decisions are contrary to national interests, we must ensure that the national considerations highlighted by the Storting are also safeguarded in the planning process. Good planning is the most important tool we have to ensure a physical framework for social development that provides good economy, prosperous societies and, above all, ensures the environment and the resource base for future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e211	When the municipality of Stavanger started working with the area section of the new municipality plan, the county council and representatives of the agricultural department, the environmental department and the municipality department were invited to a daily seminar where the municipality, among others, was invited. was represented by the rapporteur and the adviser. During the planning process, realistic solutions were found in close contact with both county and county authorities. This cooperation solution was approved by the county because it took sufficient account of the city's agricultural land, and the Ministry of the Environment has now tried it. It's alarming. We know from experience, and also from the neighbouring municipalities of Sandnes and Sola, that the county council often oversees local elected decisions in a way that at least those who are signed find directly undemocratic. It is bad enough and should have been the subject of more debate. However, the fact that we have now received an environmental protection minister who not only celebrates city government decisions, but also in practice celebrates alongside the state's own local representatives is worrying. I noted that the Minister for the Environment continues to argue in the same way as the Left, her own party, did in Stavanger City Council, and that she argues against the majority of Stavanger politicians who actually live near the areas covered by this decision. As the Council of State may have noticed at the beginning of the grubbing-up meeting, a private proposal, called Document No, was handed over today. Eight proposals, from the representatives of Tore Nordtun, Jan Johnsen and myself, a proposal drawn up by the representative of Tore Nordtun, to which we have joined. This proposal, which is thus signed by representatives from three parties who together have a solid majority in Stortinget, asks the Government to reconsider Stavanger Municipality's spatial plan. The premise of the proposal strongly criticises the decision of the Ministry of the Environment to amend the spatial plan. This proposal will, with a high degree of certainty, reach a majority in the Grand Chamber after the Committee's proceedings have been completed. That is also why no proposal has been made in this inter-pelling debate. In my opinion, it is more serious to have a thorough committee discussion of a private proposal rather than non-reworked proposals in an inter-pelling debate. But the Minister for the Environment must be aware that if she stands at the positions she has taken here today, she will beat her head quite hard against the quarry, and it is a quite solid wall building; it will do quite harm.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e220	I spent some time in my first post reviewing the situation in Stavanger regarding the areas released in the previous plan round and what was released in this round. If we take from Stavanger's own figures for progress both in the case of fortification – which we think should be more ambitious – and in the case of how many dwellings they think they are able to build by. year, they show that the areas released per year. Today should last for 11 years. I am therefore a little surprised that this document No. The 8 proposal is being promoted today. I believe that, both through the government's treatment of this matter and what I have said from the Parliament's pulpit today, we have shown that we are committed to combining the need for adequate social housing with regard to good family networks and the provision of food on our soil. I would also like to stress that what makes this matter a little special is that the Ministry of the Environment has chosen to call this case after the Stortinget even reported during the treatment of St. Announcement. No 29 for 1996-97, regional planning and land policy, called for increased emphasis to be placed on soil protection. No one disagrees that the quality of this food is of the highest quality. Nor is there anyone who disagrees that the food soil here is in one of the best climate zones in the country. And I don't think anyone disagrees that it's important to keep this important resource in place for the future, not least on the basis of a precautionary principle, because global food supplies can change in the future. I want to say a little bit about what the Government has done to get a better dialogue on urban development. One of the things we've done is to set up what we've called the Urban Development Cooperation Forum, where the Government has invited the four largest cities, among others. Stavanger and Tromsø, to join. I have been briefed on this cooperation forum in connection with an interpellation by the representative Nybakk a few weeks ago on the Alna and Groruddalen in Oslo. The purpose of the forum is to clarify and raise fundamental questions and issues about urban development for government and urban sprawl based on the city’s own practical experience. I assume that questions related to the provision of housing will also be addressed in this forum, and that further discussion and clarification will be possible on this topic.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e229	Initially, I would like to say that the Storting should generally be withholding from trying out the Government in areas where the Government is authorised to make decisions, I just have to say quite clearly about that. But this matter is of such importance to this whole region that I believe the Committee and the Storting should really reconsider the matter, as the outcome has now become. That is why it is important for us to put the matter on the agenda. I'm talking about a region that basically has the same structure on food and other things, and it's a region where business is active and growth-intensive, and the population is young and knowledgeable. There are good schools and growing conditions, and it is a region with strong growth impulses. We need to be aware that the region has had a growth of 80,000 inhabitants in 28 years. There's an average population growth of 1.4 pst, all of the municipalities in total. The region will then have to plan for population growth of between 1.5 pst. and 2 pst. It is not only useful to say to one municipality that is under pressure from its municipal borders: congestion. Several who have had the word, and who are going to have the word, live in this city. We know what density is, and we know how much irritation it eventually creates when we look at the areas around us. But I would also like to stress one important point: there must be 35 000 new jobs in the next 25 years, and we will not only talk about housing, but we will also talk about industrial land. I've noticed that it's now easier to get golf courses than nutrient areas over there. But the region is a locomotive for business development. The value creation in this region is also of great national importance. I would like to stress that business is vulnerable and significantly oil dependent. That's what we have to look at, and we have to look forward. Then it is not useful to lock a leak in Stavanger for housing only. The region must be seen as a whole. Then we also meet the agricultural areas in Sola, Randaberg and Sandnes. We have a problem, that's clear. But as long as we also struggle with the municipal boundaries, which cannot be regulated a single centimeter or millimetre – with the sitting government there is no hope of getting anything done about it – we must have a bigger perspective than just closeness in Stavanger. Stavanger City and the region are essentially demanding that a real signal be given from the Stortinget and from the Government on what we are going to do in this region to meet the growing family and the need for both nutrient land and jobs, not least for the homes of the people who want to live in this viable region, when such restrictions are put in place. [[President clubs]] I just notice that the only answer is no, no, no to areas – nothing except a wild alternative to looking at intercommunal solutions that we have been working on for many years. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e240	Then the president also has to say no to extend speaking time beyond 3 minutes, and asks the next speaker to notice this.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e243	In my opinion, the interpellation of the representative Simonsen also raises fundamental questions as to the extent to which the Storting is going to go heavily into individual matters and regulate in detail the position a state council should take. The size should concentrate primarily on the formulation of policy guidelines and principles and, where appropriate, on their follow-up. Now we heard that the representative Nordtun urged Stortinget to be careful about intervening in matters where the government has the power to make decisions – but not in this case, because it is so important. I am very surprised by the document No. The 8-proposal presented by Tore Nordtun at the beginning of today's meeting. This proposal is in stark contradiction with the earlier agreement of the Workers' Party. Let me get quotes from St. Report. No 29 for 1996-97, presented by the Workers' Party, where the Workers' Party underlines the need for strong soil protection: ‘In the practice of soil protection, the quality and production potential of cultivated and arable land will be an important basis for balancing land-use conflicts.’ And on the other hand, ‘In view of our shortage of high-productive agricultural land, it is important that in future land policy places greater emphasis on safeguarding cropland and arable land. Agriculture provides us with basic necessities, and the best possible self-sufficiency of food in the future could be of increased importance, both in terms of national preparedness and in terms of global distribution policy assessments. Before our principle implies a land policy that will be able to cope with future fluctuations in the global food situation.’ Let me also include the following from the principles of soil protection practice in land conflicts, from the same message: ‘Earth protection considerations shall be given high weight in the selection of long-term expansion patterns.’» And... «Ensure must be required within existing construction zones before taking agricultural land and natural and open air areas into use for reconstruction.» It's not necessarily necessary to say that much more. What the Minister for the Environment has said, and what the Labour Party itself has said in the past, suggests that we agree. Unfortunately, however, we have to note that the post of the representative Nordtun suggests that the party is no longer equally concerned with soil protection. It's regrettable, but it's also alarming. It is hoped that the Workers' Party will now throw an important environmental issue overboard and join the Right and Advance Party line. It's a search for Stavanger, it's a search for Norwegian food soil, and it's a search for our commitment to maintaining some of our own food production skills. It is also sad for the environment in general if this is a line the Workers' Party will follow up in other areas where environmental authorities have the right to review local decisions. This right of review is there for its application in important cases where local politicians have not found solutions consistent with the national objective. And we heard in the post to Nordtun how he warned against intervening in cases where the government has been empowered to make decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e276	This matter is absolutely not a matter of closeness, as the representative Rise said, and on which the Council of State was also involved. I just want to repeat what Tore Nordtun said, that Stavanger is Norway's densest city and the only one that has gradually become closer for the last 25 years. We're not going to have it closer in Stavanger than what we have now. I would also like to refer from Document No. The 8th proposal, which reads as follows: ‘The Community, in consultation with the Agriculture Manager and the Agriculture Director, has placed great emphasis on the fact that the areas proposed to be developed are characterised by an arrogance of urban settlements in relation to agriculture. At the same time, great emphasis has been placed on finding natural and final boundaries between the city and agriculture. The purpose of Storting's Plan and Building Act § 20-5 was not to provide a purely detailed correction of municipal plans, as in Stavanger's case. This is all the more so when it comes to a plan drawn up in full agreement with the local government sector authorities. The state local authorities have made their comments and have accepted the plans without objection.’ Does the Minister for the Environment think that the state authorities in Stavanger or the state have not done their job? In case she should say it from this pulpit. Then I am amazed at the Minister for the Environment who says that she is surprised that Document No. The 8-proposal was promoted. The Minister for the Environment was aware of this as we had a debate in ours in which it was made perfectly clear to her what would happen in this matter if she did not understand what was said from this pulpit. And what was said was that we would never accept what the minister said, and that we would reject deviations from what an almost unanimous city government had come to. I therefore ask the Minister to take this Document No. The 8-proposal seriously, and if she does, she can already signal where the road is going. I fully agree with the representative Simonsen who says that the Minister for the Environment will run right in the landfill. And I can assure the Minister for the Environment that the building is standing, but I am more sceptical about how the Minister for the Environment is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e292	I was hoping that maybe we could get a slightly different level of this debate. The challenges associated with soil protection, growth and land use for housing and business require a rapid clarification, otherwise land use in this part of the country can be rapidly reduced. Here there is also the best agricultural land in the country, with up to a meter deep mud earth. So this is what someone will build up. In Norway it's 4 pst. of the area arable. Of these, only one-third are suitable for food production. Since 1990 several tens of thousands of coverts of cultivated land have been built. In other contexts, the Järregion has shown that it can work together for the benefit of everyone. Why should it be so difficult when it comes to building buildings? Continuing to build up the best agricultural land in the country must be wrong. Maybe Stavanger can now scream to some hundred deaks of cultivated land, but what then? However, in a few years it will be ready for new rehearsal exercises. I fully agree that the Minister for the Environment should have a restrictive line with regard to the reduction of cultivated land in Stavanger. It has also had previous government councils, including those from the Labour Party and the Right. They realized that this was a very valuable area. At the same time, we also have a responsibility for those who live in Stavanger when it comes to green lungs and free space to make the city pleasant. And if this is to be built down, it will be a denser city – mark it. There is an unproductive extension area in neighbouring municipalities, and the whole area is a common work and housing area. Some people think that the answer is to merge the municipalities. But an investigation by Stavanger Aftenblad this summer revealed, however, that there was a clear plurality against the coercion of municipalities, also in Stavanger. Nor is there anything that suggests that this is useful to prevent the degradation of cultivated soil, and I think it is a blind trail. Therefore, the need for new areas of development needs to be resolved through cooperation between municipalities, but above all, it needs to be done. Stavanger wants it too! It'll tens the whole region. When the distribution of taxes, expenses and income is involved in municipal cooperation, it is now being worked on in the Ministry of Local Affairs. One can also consider soil protection funds as an alternative. I react to Tore Nordtun following Stavanger Aftenblad Saturday thinking that it is the country's role as an oil capital that is decisive for the Workers' Party's opinion in this matter. And then I wonder, is there going to be a different policy for Stavanger than for other places in the country that can also point to special things in order to grow?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e307	The President will again recall that speaking time has to be observed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e311	Let me first say that the Stortinget has given its support to the policy that the Minister for the Environment is trying to implement. It's important to be clear when the argument here reaches surprising heights. During the treatment of St. meld. No 29 for 1996-97, the Committee on Energy and the Environment stated its plurality, the members of the Labour Party, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party that: ‘have noted that the Government of the message places greater emphasis on the need for sustainable development and a stronger protection of the earth’. It was the Workers' Party at that time. Now it's been sixteen years, and the Labour Party has completely changed its vision. So the Labour Party is leading a policy that they took a great distance from just sixteen years ago. This is not only amazing, but also unfortunate. For SV's part, the principles that the majority of Stortinget established sixteen years ago, the current one. SV has followed up this vision locally, by the following main argument: Soil protection is open-minded The direction of expansion is wrong and contrary to both the town of Stavanger/Sandnes and a future urban runway The city has a strong need for green areas The use of existing nutrient and housing areas is too poor The Fortress and urban renewal potential is great. The expansion of Jåttåvågen with 1,500 housing units plus the working area will reduce the pressure. In addition, regional cooperation on housing should be ensured. It's done before, but it cooperated precisely with the parties that stand on the pulpit here today and argue against it. They ruined the cooperation that was with the Workers' Party at the head. There is no reason for SV to change the policy that Stortinget has said to be guiding. What is needed is clearing up the political course for which the Labour Party in an interpellation debate makes itself a spokesman. The next thing I know is that the Workers' Party is going further and will support the local boys in the Right and Advance Party, namely that the homes have to get bigger, and in that way they'll feel that even more of the food that we need so much is bad. SV gives tribute to the Minister for the Environment, who has loyally followed up on what the majority have adopted on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e352	It should be interesting to see whether the representative Johnsen's thunder speech gives an impression on the Richter scale at least. There are still reports to confirm or cancel it. There is good consistency, as I see it, between the guidelines adopted in the United Kingdom in the spring of 1997 when these issues were addressed and the practice that the Ministry of the Environment is now putting forward in this matter. And I would like to remind you – like the representative of Langeland – that the majority consisted of the central parties, SV and the Workers' Party. So to the extent that there have been changes in attitudes to these issues, it has happened at the Workers' Party and not at the Centre Parties, which stood for the soil protection line in 1997, and which is doing so now. If there has been a development in these issues in the last year, it is more likely that soil protection is more significant than in the past. I want to quote what Kåre Willoch said to the Nations on October 3, 1998: ‘I’m sure we’ll have a situation where food is valued more than now. That's why we have to protect the land." – It is strange that the Right People must become statesmen in order to contribute to such forward-looking views! It has been produced as if Stavanger's role as an oil capital, administrative and cultural centre and the main engine for industrial development in the region depend on the decision taken by the Ministry of the Environment. That's wrong. There is so much documented today, among other things. 11-year extension potential in the case of residential building within the areas available. There is sufficient time to carry out the overall assessment of further development in this area on which the entire Environmental Protection Ministry Decision is based. But let's be clear that the Left and the Government will help this area evolve. It has been done through the compromise of the Environment Ministry, where some land is released. It has a show with the stakes on the Storhaug tunnel, which is in the state budget, and which opens up great opportunities for Stavanger. It is in the planning of the North-Jear transport plan that is now coming, which shows the willingness to take an overall approach for the whole of the North-Jear in terms of transport issues, and it is in the signal that came from the Ministry of the Environment that a person would make funds available for an impact assessment of alternative urban development patterns. The government has not countered the development potential of the Stavanger area. It has shown through the grips to which I have referred the willingness to be an active and constructive co-player.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e372	Cultivated land is under proper management an eternal resource, and a resource we rely on. What we've seen over many decades is a permanent re-disposal of cultivated land here in the country after a bit of bit-strategy – a little here and a little bit there to the constant summing up to large numbers and in the context of the country to hundreds of thousands of targets. The Minister for the Environment stressed that the cultivated land is the most important to take care of, is the one on which we can produce grain, and placed it in the Mjø area, the Oslofjord area and the Jären. Now I'm from one of those areas, Akershus, and I've seen developments there. In the 1980s there was a take-off of approx. 1 000 jobs this year in Akershus. It has increased in ten years, so that the level is now at 2,500 deches per year. This is for one state; on a national basis, this is summed up to large numbers over time. That's probably why the Stortinget so late as one year ago took on an overall strategy to find an alternative to a bit for bit-by-bit withdrawal of cultivated land. – How can we put the headlines to counteract this development? This is what we do by regional planning, consolidation and development against unproductive areas where local authorities have one role and the central authorities have one role. And in this particular case, which is the starting point for the interpellation, the central authority has exercised its role according to what the Storting said. And now, obviously, Stortinget is about to intervene in those powers again to override – unfortunately. The exciting thing now is about the batches that are the proposers of Document No. Eight proposals that come after this debate will continue on a bit by bit strategy; that there will be a few thousand targets in each of these central areas each year, or whether they are willing to look at this overall and join an alternative strategy. The big question is what the proposers do when the area they are fighting through is developed. Will they change strategy, or will they start a fight for a new area, and when it's built, another new area? And this applies not only to Stavanger, but to cities and agglomerations around the East, the Mjø area and the Järdistrict, where we have parallel things in a lot of ways. What is needed is an alternative strategy, not a continuation of what has been achieved until now.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e383	I only have one small comment. I've listened to the government party's argument, and it's in itself just fine as far as it goes. As far as I can see, it aims to convince representatives of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right that they are wrong. Of course, it is possible to pursue that strategy, but that is not at the heart of the matter. The essence of the matter is simply that here are the representatives of the three parties who, on behalf of their co-representatives, express a view, and what is therefore the problem of the government parties is: what do they do at the moment they find that they do not come up with their argument, that it is the argument of the majority parties that will be the reasoning on which the Storting will base? That's the question that government parties should address, not make an attempt to convince the three parties that really they should think something else they do, because they don't. That is the relationship that the Minister for the Environment will have to deal with later.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e388	I have registered that the Council of State believes that her proposal combines consideration for adequate housing in terms of protecting agricultural land. But that is exactly what Stavanger's politicians also think they have done in their municipal plan. They've been keeping 95 pst. of the agricultural area of the city. They have developed a compromise in cooperation with regional agricultural and environmental protection authorities, in cooperation with the county council. It is this compromise solution that the Minister for the Environment is so sovereign. I agree with the representative Tore Nordtun that Stortinget should be somewhat restrained in overcoming the Government's decision. But then the government must also be restrained from reviewing municipal decisions. This case might look a little bit more simple, but it's actually something more. It is also an important principle of local self-government. For it is wise politicians in Stavanger and we who live in Stavanger, not bureaucrats and politicians in Oslo, who know best where the shoe prints in our home town. It is quite alarming that the representative Unn Aarrestad and the Central Party have taken the position they have, as long as the programme of the Central Party says that the municipalities should be made less dependent on the state, and that local elected bodies must be given increased authority and responsibility, and so you agree to support a total review and failure of a municipal government decision made by 66 to 11 votes. It is also alarming that the Left who wants to legislate on local self-government, as sovereignly disregards the local self-government that they want to legislate. You have to ask the question: is it that local self-government should apply only in the municipalities where the Central Party and the Left have a majority?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e399	There are several representatives who have stressed the importance of putting the region on the agenda, and there are also others who have said that we need to take into account the legitimate needs of the municipality to plan for population growth, and that it is not just beneficial to say closeness and no, no, no. That's also why I used my post to do something other than that. I showed that there are a total of 1750 dekars for new construction. I showed that we from the Government have entered into a collaboration with getting to the Storhaug Tunnel which will enable more new dwellings to be built and in addition to using existing ones in the center. I showed that we have been in favour of a transport plan for the North-Jear, which I believe is an important contribution to continued growth in the region, and I also want to say that we have a good cooperation with the municipality of Stavanger in terms of green lungs and green structure, where we think they are doing a good job. Just this need that was pointed out by several speakers, to see the region as a whole, is why we have a cooperation and have provided the means to put in place a North-Jear district plan. There are some who have raised questions about, in particular, – you almost have to be able to interpret it this way – the Council of State is thick enough in its head to tolerate a meeting with the Stortinget. I think it's more important to say that what we're trying to do on the part of the Ministry of the Environment, which is our job, is to make sure that national concerns are taken into account at municipal and regional level. So we're going to follow up St. Report. No 29 to the best of our ability, and any new signals, we allow ourselves to wait until the Storting may have brought them. I would also like to stress that this is not the first time that the municipality of Stavanger proposes redeployment of the areas concerned. There was also an objection raised the previous time. The objection was taken as a result of the Ministry of the Environment, and the workers' party government found soil protection to be more serious than the expansion of these areas. Is it true that we have left our ideal of local anchoring? No, that's not it. There are no more than 30 to 40 cases that end up at the Minister for the Environment's table, and half of them are not changing. Most municipal plans and district plans never come to my table, nor should they come there. In addition, I would like to stress that we have taken some new initiatives to get more local anchoring. We have launched a parallel process between the Law on Nature Protection and the Law on Planning and Building in Naustdal/Gjendal to improve popular governance. We have proposed local management of 1 500 protected areas, and in the case of predatory policies, we have both a local distribution of prevention funds and the granting of conditional breeding permits. I therefore believe that this government has shown that it takes the local government seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e417	That being the case, it is no. 1 ready-to-use.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e431	One of the most cruel acts in modern war history was the nuclear bombs that were released over Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 1945. Only in Hiroshima did the bomb burn up 80,000 people in seven seconds. In the decades that followed, tens of thousands more of those who survived this human slaughter have suffered a painful death because of the aftermath of radioactivity. The world never became the same after Hiroshima. The energy and strength of nuclear weapons, today many, many times greater than in 1945, is of a character we can barely grasp. The very first atomic bomb narrowed in Los Alamos, New Mexico, July 16, the same year, where scientists were working on bombs to develop the new weapons of destruction. They said the sun stood up twice that day – the second time like a reddish-hot bullet, the first time with a giant click. The entire landscape was covered by an intense light, much stronger than the sun in the middle of the day. Then came the strong and persistent roar. Los Alamos – the name sounds like the title of an old-fashioned American western film. In reality, the name represents the beginning of the nuclear age and the nuclear race between the powers of decades after decades of cold war. Today, the threat of nuclear war does not stem from major activization in a two - part world. The nuclear threat has changed. It is there in the form of spread hazards to countries with totalitarian and unpredictable regimes. It is also there by the fact that nuclear competence and fissile material after the fall of the Soviet Union are out of control and can become a means of pressuring terrorist groups. And the threat exists because of the environmental threat of nuclear waste and reactors in poor conditions in Russia and other post-Soviet states. Unfortunately, while in the east and west you are now rusting down heavily, some countries in the third world are rusting up, and they are acquiring expertise, technology and enough fissile material to develop nuclear weapons. This is also linked to the increased availability of high technology that can be used both for civil and military purposes. The nuclear testing in India and Pakistan showed that we have significantly reduced the number of non-proliferation and global disarmament and the elimination of nuclear weapons, and the first tests since the extensive probation agreement was signed by 144 countries two years ago. The Workers' Party has supported the Government's condemnation of the trials, a step backwards for the international work on non-proliferation and a danger to both health, environment, safety and stability in the region. We also supported the call for India and Pakistan to join both the Nuclear Test Ban Agreement and the Non-Proliferation Agreement as soon as possible – and without any conditions. At the same time, the testing is an unpleasant reminder that the international community must have a position on threshold countries such as India and Pakistan, large people-rich nations – barred from the UN Security Council and other fora – and nuclear envoys who have not signed the test stop or non-proliferation agreement and who are trying to detonate into the good company: the nuclear club. Nevertheless, India and Pakistan are probably the least dramatic example of nuclear weapons and fissile material being de facto out of control. We are all concerned that we are not in control of the dissemination and development of competences. We hear about scientists and engineers from post-Soviet states who sell nuclear competences to questionable regimes and terrorists, just to get money to survive and to have the opportunity to conduct technological research. We know that there are nuclear weapons in the hands of people we don't have the ability to control, that there are literally bombs around. In the fight to abolish nuclear weapons, we no longer fight against ignorance, monetary power, political prestige, technocrats and cynicism. We also fight against systems without central control, where political, economic and social anarchy prevails, where every day is able to survive, where soldiers and researchers have not been paid for months. And we are fighting terrorism, despots and dubious regimes. In fact, control of dispersal is becoming almost more important than quantitative disarmament targets at this stage. Nevertheless, the aim must be to abolish nuclear weapons. This is not done overnight and will require laborious political and diplomatic work, even along the small steps of the road. Much has been done in the field of nuclear disarmament in Europe. The United States and Russia committed themselves in 1991-92 to relatively large reductions in tactical nuclear weapons. START I and II mean that US and Russian strategic nuclear warheads will be reduced to 3,500 in 2000. In 1990 the number was well over 10,000. Hopefully, START III will lead to further reductions. The 1996 Canberra Commission made a number of proposals and recommendations on nuclear disarmament. These included ending sub-critical testing of nuclear-related equipment and stopping the deployment of non-strategic nuclear weapons. In the same year, the Treaty on a Total Prohibition of Nuclear Testing was adopted and opened for signature at the UN General Assembly. As regards the Non-Proliferation Agreement, it was extended indefinitely in 1995. From the Norwegian side, it was important at the time to have the agreement without a time limit. No other multilateral arms control agreement has such broad support, and it is an important barrier to the proliferation of nuclear weapons. The agreement also establishes the objective of a nuclear-free world, and has provided us with an instrument to influence and assess nuclear disarmament efforts at periodic surveillance conferences – in the form of dialogue between nuclear and other countries. Last year, Malaysia and 47 other countries presented the so-called Malaysia Resolution, adopted by the UN Disarmament Committee on 10 November to 26 votes, with 24 abstentions. Norway was among those who abstained. The resolution called for a ban on, inter alia: development and production, and were in favour of the total abolition of nuclear weapons. In the United Nations, a new initiative for full nuclear disarmament, the New Agenda Coalition – N.A.C., is under consideration in these days. The initiative comes from eight countries – Brazil, Egypt, Ireland, Mexico, New Zealand, Slovenia, Sweden and South Africa – and is based on the report of the Canberra Commission. N.A.C. was presented in Stockholm on 9 June this year by Minister for Foreign Affairs Lena Hjelm-Wallén. The N.A.C. initiative contains a number of proposals for nuclear disarmament, including: progress in the START III negotiations, the launch of a process to remove all nuclear weapons and an appeal to those States that have not signed the Non-proliferation Agreement to do just that. The agreement is now under consideration in the United Nations, and there are a few days left to final treatment and position. I would therefore like to commend the Minister of Foreign Affairs for responding to my interpellation as quickly as he has done. I would also like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to explain the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the various elements of the proposal and on the totality and arrangement of the proposal, and to ask whether it is such that Norway will actively go in and negotiate the text with a view to its amendment, so that it can join as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e473	Let me first make a few general considerations about the issue we are going to deal with in this debate. The government wants to contribute constructively and actively to nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. The goal is to reach a nuclear-free world, and I am pleased with the support of the representative Nybakk, although it does not surprise. We believe that the prime responsibility for nuclear disarmament lies with the nuclear powers. But all countries have a responsibility to contribute to progress. For our part, we are also conscious of our responsibility. At the same time, we have to recognise that the path towards the goal is the path of small steps. We must help to eliminate the causes of countries having, or want to acquire, nuclear weapons. We need to provide comprehensive verification and control systems, both for disarmament and non-proliferation. To move forward, the right framework conditions must be in place. The situation today is marked by both positive and negative moves. There have been considerable reductions in nuclear arsenals in nuclear power in the 1990s. Most recently at the summit between Presidents Clinton and Yeltsin earlier this year, new important initiatives were launched. The United Kingdom has also implemented important disarmament measures recently. A recent agreement was reached to launch negotiations on an agreement to ban the production of fissile materials for weapons purposes at the Geneva Disarmament Conference. This is a goal that we from the Norwegian side have been working for a long time. At the same time, there are several features that give cause for concern. The Indian and Pakistani bombings, on which Nybakk's representative was involved, have put pressure on the non-proliferation regime. The work of the Geneva Disarmament Conference has been characterised by a number of standstills and the NPT process has been locked down. Russia has not yet ratified the START II Agreement and thus the path to further disarmament agreements is not yet open. We're impatient to move on. We want to help make this possible. It is the Government’s view that the best strategy for Norway is to invest in political processes where we can make realistic, concrete and constructive contributions to the work of disarmament and non-proliferation. We come further with a pragmatic strategy of action in areas where we can accomplish something, than by speaking in capitals, even though this is also necessary from time to time. On the Norwegian side, we have made proposals, at the latest in the 1st Committee of the United Nations in October this year, with a view to softening the situation in the Disarmament Conference and the NPT. We have reacted strongly to the Indian and Pakistani trials and made appeals to Russia and the Russian Duma to ratify START II. Furthermore, together with Japan, we have tabled a motion for a resolution on measures for full disarmament which we believe to be realistic in the current situation, although the nuclear powers disagree with some of the proposals. The proposal encourages nuclear weapons states to take systematic and progressive steps to reduce nuclear weapons globally in order to eliminate such weapons, while encouraging all countries to work for general and complete disarmament under effective international control. It contains five concrete measures to achieve this. The initiative launched on 9 June then. by Brazil, Egypt, Ireland, Mexico, New Zealand, Slovenia, Sweden and South Africa – the so-called New Agenda Coalition, or 8 countries – is initially positive. A proposal for a resolution in the 1st Committee of the United Nations General Assembly on the basis of this 8th country initiative was presented in New York on 26 October with 30 countries, most of them from the non-aligned movement, as co-sponsors. Sweden and Ireland are the only EU countries, no NATO country is involved. The proposers indicated in the submission that they could still be open to adjustments in the text. The stated intention of the draft resolution has been to revitalise the international work on nuclear disarmament. It has been expressed to us the desire to find a moderate alternative to existing resolutions on nuclear disarmament which, at the same time, could create a more effective framework for further disarmament policy work. This is in line with our vision. On the part of the Government, we share the main objective of the resolution on a nuclear-free world, the general dissatisfaction with the failure of the NPT process and the need to facilitate the strengthening of the non-proliferation regime and the long-term objective of nuclear disarmament. I can respond positively to the interpellant's question whether we have been in contact with the proposers in order to be able to vote in favour of the resolution. Together with, among other things, Canada and Japan, we have had a good dialogue on the design of concrete text proposals. We have had a number of meetings to present our views on the text and present changes that should be made. We've wanted to make a real contribution to movement where the processes have been stationary lately. However, we found the early draft resolution strongly influenced by the well-known and unconstructive views of the tone-making countries of the Alliance-free group. Several proposals, in our opinion, were not suitable for bringing together broad consensus and creating the new given proposers as the goal. Some changes were made during the consultation process as a result of the objections raised, in particular by Norway, Canada and Japan. Some of the changes that have been made appear to me to be important. Countries in the group of initiators have individually shown significant willingness to respond to views expressed by, among others, Norway. Overall, however, we are not satisfied with the changes that have been made along the way. This reflects, among other things: also that it is not easy for such a heterogeneous group of countries to agree on changes to a text that has been produced through long internal negotiations. As the text of the resolution now stands, it contains, in my opinion, several problematic wordings and omissions both in the operational and pre-ambulatory paragraphs. The pre-ambulatory part of the proposal is still quite negative to the nuclear powers. It is not a good idea to soften a locked situation to start by questioning nuclear disarmament. Similarly, we must note that there have been no significant changes that alter the idea of unbalanced treatment of nuclear disarmament initiatives. It is the unilateral and bilateral disarmament measures that have made the most significant progress in the field of nuclear disarmament in recent years. It is this type of initiative that has been underlined by the Norwegian side that is the main track in nuclear disarmament. Furthermore, it is a significant weakness in the current situation that a resolution on nuclear disarmament which mentions the United States and Russia by name and places responsibility for failure to make progress in both countries, while at the same time not mentioning India and Pakistan by name. Nor is it explicitly distanced from the recent tests carried out by the two countries, and the two countries are referred to by a new name, such as States that are ‘nuclear weaponscapable’, capable of using nuclear weapons. We find it regrettable that there is no willingness to mention the names of the countries that carried out the testing and which represent the most serious estimate of the work for disarmament and non-proliferation in several years. In my view, we are not making any progress by questioning the will of nuclear power, by unbalanced mention of various actors, or by raising a number of proposals that we know are unacceptable to the main countries in the process. Facilitating a more constructive dialogue in this area is the political challenge we face. With a possible exception to Canada, no allied country has indicated that they will be able to support the resolution as it stands. The three nuclear weapons states of NATO place a great deal of emphasis on the Member States of the Alliance acting together and voting against the resolution. Some elements of the text are, in isolation, problematic for NATO countries. I therefore expect that few or no NATO country will vote in favour of the resolution as it is now formulated. The choice is between abstaining or voting against. My conclusion, therefore, is that although we can support many of the intentions and elements of the resolution, it is not suitable in its present form to become a broad, new alternative to creating movement and progress in the disarmament processes. The government, as mentioned above, wants to contribute actively to nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation and to reach a nuclear-free world. The resolution as it now appears raises a number of difficult questions that we need to address and that we are in dialogue with our NATO partners about. We still don't know the final text. The Government will continue its dialogue with the proposers, and the Government's decision will be taken when the final text is available, and also in the light of the attitude of allied countries. The vote will probably not be taken until next week.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e513	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e516	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the answer and agree that the most important thing in the future must be to work for the widest possible integration of measures that really lead to nuclear disarmament, and that Norway is actually dealing, both politically and diplomatically, in such a way in the international forums and in the special institutions that deal with nuclear weapons, that we get into a nuclear disarmament process with a nuclear-free world as the goal, that is. the elimination of nuclear weapons, as advocated by the N.A.C. Resolution. Lack of credible will to eliminate nuclear weapons poses a great threat to humanity, a deficiency that also contributes, I believe, to the locked situation in various disarmament forums. At the same time, of course, it is important, and we also recognise that we, as NATO countries, are careful to ensure that the decisions taken, or the resolutions adopted, are not unilaterally directed towards NATO countries, but take into account all the nuclear powers and acknowledge the uncontrolled proliferation of nuclear weapons, which I also spent some time in my post. I now perceive the Minister for Foreign Affairs that by the fact that there are 30 co-sponsors, it is now more difficult to influence the process in the UN, including the content of individual paragraphs and also the overall picture that is being created. At the end of the day, the Norwegian representatives will have to decide on the final text. Nevertheless, it is doubtful whether Norway is worse this time than in the previous round, for our nuclear position has hardly changed significantly. So I'd like to focus on the process further, also after this round in the United Nations. How do we progress in the nuclear disarmament process towards a nuclear-free world? Our neighbouring country Sweden, together with other non-aligned countries, has taken the initiative for this N.A.C. resolution. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that we are working further from the Norwegian side, among other things. in relation to the other Nordic countries, to create a nuclear-free world, and how do we work in relation to our alliance partners in NATO and in other international forums?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e527	In view of the change of words we now have, which relates to a special resolution and the text in it, I think it might be useful for me to review at this stage of the debate a little bit of what we think is difficult. We have been in close contact with the Swedish co-sponsor, and we will continue to do so even after this may have been adopted by the UN, because we had the objective of actually being able to support this resolution. We saw this as a positive option, and we are among the first to regret that it has not been possible. Some of the reasons why I could think of it as mentioning. If we go through the resolution and mention some of the things that are difficult, we can see that in Pre-Ambulatory Section 2, the reference to the prospect of unlimited possession of nuclear weapons raises doubts about the willingness of nuclear powers to fulfil their international obligations under the NPT. This is inconsistent with what they actually express themselves. The initiators have deleted a previous reference to the nuclear powers, but it is clearly understood. So, in our view, the paragraph appears to be unnecessarily provocative. The claim in Preambulary § 4 that it is not credible that you can own nuclear weapons without using them, with or without intention, lacks reason. This is a claim as a country which is affiliated to a strategic defence alliance with, among other things. comprehensive control and safety systems to prevent non-intentional use cannot be signed on. Then you have Pre-Ambular Section 5 and the first operating paragraph, which has a negative tone in the mention of nuclear disarmament and seems to continue to question their willingness to fulfil their international obligations under the NPT. It can thus have an undermining effect on one of the main elements of the Non-Proliferation Agreement. Operational § 2 is unbalanced in the sense that it allocates a level playing field between the United States and Russia for the failure of START II. As you know, the Senate has ratified START II. The wording of Operational Section 13 that the Conference of Disarmament should be mandated to ‘treat’ or ‘deal with’ nuclear disarmament is problematic. We would have liked such a mandate to have a clarification that limits it to ‘discussion/exchange of information’ in order to limit it to the requirement of multilateral negotiations on nuclear disarmament within a fixed timeframe, which is, of course, the main problem of the so-called Malaysia resolution. There are also a number of other elements. Overall, I believe that the eight-country resolution is more problematic than the so-called Malaysia resolution. The latter address mainly one particular issue, namely the launch of multilateral negotiations on nuclear disarmament within a set timeframe and in the light of the conclusions of the International Court of Justice. The eight-country resolution embraces much more, and also has more problematic features.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e544	The last statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs that he considers this text of the resolution to be more problematic than the text of the Malaysian resolution sounds surprising. Some of the purposes of this N.A.C. initiative have been to move forward in the work that the UN has been trying to do for years, namely to get a ban on nuclear weapons and the elimination of weapons. I hope that the Minister of Foreign Affairs can explain it a little bit more. There was a rather surprising new turn in the case, to say it like this. I'll believe all the parties in the Storting agree on the desire to eliminate nuclear weapons and, of course, on the recognition that this is very difficult. For my part, I see this initiative, taken by the Foreign Ministers in Brazil, Egypt, Ireland, Mexico, New Zealand, Slovenia, Sweden and South Africa, as a good initiative. The continuing threat to humanity of nuclear weapons has been gripped, and efforts are being made to live up to the work that the UN General Assembly started in 1946, namely to remove from national arsenals nuclear weapons and all other weapons suitable for mass destruction. In the period since 1946, we have had the pleasure of experiencing the introduction of a ban on both chemical and biological weapons. It's positive, but the ban on and the elimination of nuclear weapons is waiting. I have to say that it sounds a little sensitive, maybe even a little hypersensitive, that you can't accept any kind of critical comments about the nuclear powers. Also, I ask myself a little questioning about their willingness to eliminate nuclear weapons. I think their will for disarmament is there. They've shown several times that they have a willingness to disarm nuclear weapons, but what you can question is their desire or their will to eliminate nuclear weapons, and that's what this is all about. The first thing I wanted to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if you want to follow up this text, he has responded positively. But I would also ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in appropriate forums, to follow up some of the proposals contained in this text, on how to approach the situation, on a reduction that will eventually end in an elimination and can make the world a little less dangerous to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e563	The initiative from the 8 countries group is important. No one can disagree with the slow progress of nuclear disarmament. The Christian People's Party has also committed itself in its action programme to work towards a strong strengthening of the international control of the sale of arms and the dissemination of nuclear material through binding agreements in the UN. We are also in favour of Norway working towards a reduction in nuclear weapons and for nuclear-free zones in the framework of disarmament negotiations between the major powers. Other parties have formulated themselves accordingly in their programmes. There is therefore no doubt that there is a clear and strong cross-political will in the Storting to move forward towards nuclear disarmament, as the representative Nybakk calls for in his interpellation. Unfortunately, one must state that the steps towards such disarmament have been small, almost pitiful at times. There is reason for both concern and reflection when India and Pakistan are measuring political and military strength with a meaningless array of nuclear bombs that are disturbing the entire world community. Unfortunately, it gives a correct and unpainted picture of how short we have actually come to work on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. It is therefore both liberating and encouraging when initiatives are taken outside the ordinary institutions for such negotiations with a view to speeding up discussions which could lead to a concrete follow-up. Such an initiative is the motion for a resolution tabled by the 8 countries group, the New Agenda Coalition, which was presented at the UN on 26 October, i.e. last Monday. It is now apparent from the statements made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs that the text of the resolution itself is not as unproblematic as it could initially be assumed. It is not a matter of a lack of recognition that it is necessary to crush eggs in order to create omelettes, i.e. that some major acts will have to be challenged on their policy and will in their resolution texts. The problem is rather the lack of balance and some less fortunate formulations, as pointed out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, which may seem rather divisive than collapsing. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs stated that Norway has had good contact with the 8 countries as well as with the United Nations system, among others. in order to contribute to the achievement of a more coherent formulation of this initiative, thereby strengthening the possibility of such a text being adopted at the UN General Assembly. But Norway cannot therefore vote in favour of the resolution as it now stands, and I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs has put forward good reasons for this. However, it is hoped that it may be possible to develop formulations that will bring together a broad majority of the United Nations and that will take care of the intentions of the 8 countries group. That is so absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e574	The Foreign Minister’s review of the issue was now interesting, sober and tidy. As I assess the situation, it is obvious that the initiative that triggered the interpellation is not of the most dangerous or central in this area. I am surprised that at a time when non-proliferation may be at the top of the agenda, the resolution is too weak in this area. I would recommend the Government on core issues like this to advance in close and close cooperation with our main allies. I am well admitted to following this debate for some decades, that Sweden does not stand for me as the obvious leader of this kind of question. There are completely different and close nations that are right to deal with in these questions. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has signalled that Norway cannot vote for the text as it now stands. Norway often solves its dilemmas by not having to vote at all. I don't think that's any particularly ludicrous way of doing that. Therefore, there should also be an option open to vote against a text that is not satisfied with. I think that will facilitate the process later on towards a text that you can be satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e583	There can be no doubt that the primary responsibility for nuclear disarmament lies with the nuclear powers. Such a finding is most realistic. After India and Pakistan exploded their bombs, there are few who can seriously believe that holding up a club of nuclear powers, an atomic monopoly, has something in common that leaks into a strategy to avoid the spread of nuclear weapons – across the board. Nuclear weapons countries should, as soon as possible, take active steps to get rid of their weapons in accordance with the formulations such as: is expressed in Article 6 of the Non-Proliferation Agreement. No one has to have any illusions that it is easy to implement such a case. The Foreign Minister himself mentioned some of the difficulties facing you. I'd like to add: we shouldn't be too sure that the small steps' policies will lead or give enough results. New countries can join the nuclear club, and we don't have a sea of time to take off. Therefore, it must be allowed to hope that a major breakthrough may not come too long. In any case, there is a need for a strong world opinion – the nuclear powers must feel the pressure of a universal desire to remove what we all have been subjected to in the short and long term. When Norway in its time rather than refusing to vote against the Malaysia resolution in the United Nations, many interpreted it as an expression of a more active Norwegian line, and rightly so. There was a signal here that we would be more open in the future to support policy initiatives aimed at reducing the risk of nuclear proliferation. This is why the Government, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs informed us today, has placed great emphasis on the initiative launched on 9 June this year by the so-called 8-country group, which is active among other Sweden. On the diplomatic level, Norway has been actively involved in discussions on the formulation of textual proposals. The aim is this time to find a moderate alternative to previous resolutions, so that NATO countries too can see themselves tending to support the resolution. But that's not the situation per. date. I understand the Foreign Minister correctly, keep working on the texts in the hope that more NATO countries might be able to join. Most people will probably have difficulty understanding what's the real conflict here. Perhaps the Foreign Minister should inform us more about that. In any case, the question of how Norway will answer is still open. Let's hope that Norway will be able to support the resolution when matters come up. We should not underestimate the voice of a small country when there is a strong world opinion behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e594	With regard to the work of the Left in relation to nuclear weapons, on previous occasions I have withdrawn the lines far, until the Left, perhaps as the only party, made it clear that Norway should not at least acquire nuclear weapons. It was at a time when there was a current problem, which fortunately it is not today. Through this, I would like to express clearly the support for the interpellant's affairs at the interpellant that has traveled today, and for the description of the atrocities of the nuclear weapons. It is a paradox that biological and chemical weapons are prohibited weapons, while we are in the situation that the ban does not apply to nuclear weapons. I choose not to use the phrase ‘nuclear weapons are allowed weapons’ – I hope that at least I have to be seen as too strong a formulation. The important work that now needs to be done is related to the issue of non-proliferation, to the issue of disarmament, i.e. the reduction of nuclear weapons among nuclear weapons countries, and to a longer-term effort to eliminate nuclear weapons, to align them with biological and chemical weapons. But it's probably right to join what Jan Petersen expressed when he formulated it so that per. Today, perhaps non-proliferation is in many ways the most important issue on the agenda for nuclear weapons. Against this background, I am pleased with the clear willingness of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to express that the Government is actively working on these issues and to adopt decisions that express a clear position on the non-proliferation and abolition of nuclear weapons. At the same time, these issues need to have a realistic approach and aim to influence developments by enabling more countries to join in texts of resolutions which clearly support the objective. And it is so difficult to review the assessments made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government. It's also important here both to keep in touch with the 8 countries on the one hand and, of course, with NATO on the other. Finally, I would like to make it clear that it is the opinion of the Left that the Government should consider the question of relinquishing in a more positive way than what was expressed on the part of Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e610	Votes in these kinds of questions are, of course, the government's responsibility and should remain so, as it has been in modern times. Whenever I think it's useful with the kind of review that today's interpellation has triggered, it's because we're dependent on an active political debate and a vital popular opinion in dealing with these issues. I believe the Minister for Foreign Affairs is right that a ratification of the START II agreement in Moscow can activate a new, comprehensive round, called START III, in accordance with the agreement between the two countries' top leaders in Helsinki not long ago. It will in many ways be the key to further progress in the field of nuclear disarmament. I feel that what was wrong with the Malaysia resolution – which we thus refrained from twice, if I remember correctly – was that it removed the pressure from the major powers and powdered responsibility by making it a general disarmament issue in Geneva. The resolution now under discussion has the strength not to pulverize responsibility, but to draw up, by name, those countries that have a special responsibility to continue this process. And I can't see that as negative, but as positive. I understand that there will now be ongoing contact between Norway, the Allies, the Nordic countries and others with a view to looking at how this will be handled in the run-up to the vote. I have the confidence in the Government, also in the light of the advice and views expressed in the debate, that one here will land correctly, and at least not weaken our position in terms of promoting an active opinion on these important issues.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e619	I would like to thank you for the debate and just give a few considerations. First of all, I don't think there's any doubt about where the opinion in Norway is about nuclear weapons and the proliferation of nuclear weapons, nuclear weapons competence and fissile material. We are all concerned that we are not in control of this weapons of destruction. We are also concerned that the nuclear powers and those with this competence seem to be very restrained – to put it mildly – as regards measures to eliminate nuclear weapons, and the N.A.C. resolution puts their finger on a very central problem when it calls on those with nuclear weapons to demonstrate their willingness to fulfil their contractual obligations to eliminate nuclear weapons. A poll conducted in July this year shows that 92 pst. believes that the Government should actively promote a ban on nuclear weapons. The Minister for Foreign Affairs recognised, as I could hear, that the stated intention of the motion for a resolution was to revitalise the international work on nuclear disarmament. I would also like to refer to what Mr Grondahl said about looking at the individual elements of this resolution in order also to bring it forward, and I would like to repeat my question from the past: how has the Foreign Minister thought that we should move on with nuclear disarmament and the work to eliminate nuclear weapons even after the fall of UN treatment? With regard to that treatment, I would like to stress that I now assume that there is ongoing contact between Norway, the Nordic countries and other countries that are close to us, in relation to voting, and that it must be those who sit there, and the Norwegian Government, who take a stand for the final text that lies there, but that it is difficult to be worse or to take a worse position than before in relation to this type of case. Then, if I may, I will conclude by quoting Thorbjørn Jagland from August 6, 1995: ‘Despite even reaching complete disarmament of nuclear weapons, we cannot eliminate the knowledge and technology that makes it possible. It's like a heat released from the fireplace: we can't hold it back. Therefore, the world must always live with this knowledge. And there's no other way than to bring civilization up to a higher level than what we have today where the great powers and blocks are fighting against each other." It's also a cross of thought that we know that we're not able to stop the technology.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e642	Let me also thank you for the debate. I think this is an important debate, and the points of view that have emerged will of course be taken into account in our discussions. Three minutes is very short time, but I will briefly mention to the representative Kolle Grondahl that I was also surprised when I went into the text and looked at the new 8-country resolution and the difficulties that arose. The Malaysia resolution is more one-track, or focused on multilateral negotiations, while the 8-country text is much wider, and that is a problem. But we're going to follow up. Let me also say that in the case of disarmament, there are dozens of resolutions coming up at the autumn general meeting, where Norway is active. To follow up the representative Nybakk's question about what we are doing, I can among other things. mention that we are co-sponsors with Japan for a resolution on nuclear disarmament with a view to eliminating nuclear weapons under strict and effective international control. There we also have a programme for further work. Furthermore, we will also support a resolution that we have not been able to support in the past to establish the entire southern hemisphere as a nuclear-free zone. We are also co-rapporteurs for a resolution that welcomes and supports the progress made in bilateral relations between the United States and Russia in the area of arms control and disarmament. I also want to say that we want to contribute to this year's General Assembly taking a settlement with the unacceptable behaviour that India and Pakistan showed, and we want to continue this active commitment to nuclear disarmament, among other things. by supporting policy initiatives aimed at reducing the role of nuclear weapons in international policy, which are of such a nature that they can bring together as wide a range as possible. A key task in the future will be to move the multilateral dialogue on nuclear and non-proliferation within the framework of the NPT and the disarmament conference in Geneva. We will pay particular attention to obtaining results-oriented negotiations on an agreement on the prohibition of the production of fissile materials, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has recently conducted a seminar, a consultation, with Norwegian expertise on nuclear issues, in order to provide the basis for precisely targeted Norwegian efforts both in the forthcoming negotiations on the prohibition of the production of fissile materials and in other areas. Another important prerequisite for progressing with reductions in strategic weapons is that the START II agreement be ratified, on which the representative Godal was in, and I will repeat my wish and my appeal that this must happen soon. It would open up new opportunities for getting a START III, getting momentum in extensive disarmament negotiations, which we all want.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-03.ana.ud72e659	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
