ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-upper.ana.ud2243e102	I would like to refer to the thorough and factual debate that was held in Odelstinget in relation to the proposals I am now going to refer to, but which unfortunately did not receive a majority. In view of this, I would also like to make the following proposals in the Laging on behalf of the Workers' Parity and the Socialist Left Party: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-upper.ana.ud2243e260	The representative, Erik Dalheim, has put forward the proposal he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-upper.ana.ud2243e263	I would also like to refer to the debate in Odelstinget on this important big issue. Since this has not covered the compromise we have reached with the inter-parties, we see the need to make proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. I would therefore like to make the following proposals: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-upper.ana.ud2243e281	The representative, Mr Kleppe, has put forward the proposal he has referred to. Several have not asked for the word. The President will recommend that we vote first on the proposal from the Progress Party, then on the proposal from the Labour Party and finally on the proposal from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left. – This is how it will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-upper.ana.ud2243e301	The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-upper.ana.ud2243e313	No one has asked for the floor. The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-upper.ana.ud2243e327	No one has asked for the floor. The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-upper.ana.ud2243e341	The matter that we are now dealing with got a thorough debate at the Odelstinget reading. Thus, you might not be able to make a post, but since, in the opinion of the Advancement Party, this is a matter of great importance to our future protection obligation, I still think it is right to spend some time on an argumentation also in the Creation. First of all, I would like to stress that what you are doing now is contributing to a conceptual confusion with those who want to understand what a duty to protect is. It combines a military and a civil protection duty. In relation to the understanding, at least, of our law on protective duty, this is the military duty of protection. It is the right and the duty to defend their country with arms in hand and with the risks involved. There's no easy situation for a soldier to be in, but there's no easy situation for a country to be without soldiers who perform the deeds that society imposes on them. I think we're just going to look at today to realize that it may be necessary from time to time to seize weapons. It's also a right to say no to do the military protection, and to do a service civilly without the use of weapons. It's legitimate, and it's okay. But by mixing the concepts, civil service is now in many ways equated with military protection. So we can ask ourselves, why is this necessary? I would argue that this must obviously be in order to contribute to the undermining of military protection. I have a hard time seeing it differently. The civil service obligation is clearly and unambiguously defined and provides space for the service to be provided. What becomes a challenge, of course, is that with the change to the declaration now proposed, where the police inquiry is removed, it will be much easier to submit a self-declaration — perhaps on a template form. Many would argue that it was fully possible to provide a uniform explanation even during a police inquiry, but it requires something more – it requires a conviction documented by the statement made. It is also true that the majority in favour of this, through the Odelstingen debate, have stated that it is not entirely certain that this could mean a significant increase in those who seek refuge from the military protection obligation, and that in such a way as to return. Experience is available from other countries where such a slight increase has been observed. We are today – we need to be clear about this if we want to maintain military protection – in the situation that very few are fully implementing the service. And if the decline is further increased in the classes that are now going into service, you won't be able to train the soldiers who are going to go into our protective arrangements. And then something quite dramatic has been achieved: then you contribute to undermining our defence, simply by not being able to produce educated, qualified soldiers to a protective defense that a clear majority say they are in favour of. That's why, in my opinion, this is a remarkable contrast, it's not related. Should it turn out then – and we will see that in the very next few years – that the number of people using this easy access leads to an increase in the number of civil servants – I deliberately use that title – it will be fun to see how to deal with that situation. Of course, I hope that will not be the result, because I still believe that most young Norwegian men have a sense of responsibility and duty towards the country in which they were born, and in which they have a right and duty to defend. But the political majority have not helped to give them support. I'm not going to spend much more time on this, but I have to say that I think that the evolution we've had here is marked by the fact that the will through this is something other than what you give the impression of. And I'm going to assume that it's not very long for anyone in this house to order that the term of service be equal to military guardians and civil servants. If that were the result, I believe I have been able to document the claim I made a short time ago. We've seen in other laws progress towards the same thing, and I'm very excited about what's going on. I would also like to be allowed to praise the representative, Hernæs, for a vigorous debate in Odelstinget. On the part of the Progress Party, we take this very seriously, and we will follow very closely the developments in military protection. I will therefore be allowed to raise the following proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right:
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-upper.ana.ud2243e403	I have a great deal of understanding of Mr. Røss ground, who is also a member of the Defence Committee, feels a need to say a few words in this matter here in Lagting. I can only say on the Right's behalf that the post here was a good and comprehensive summary of the argument that was also made on the Right's side in Odelstinget when one dealt with this matter, so here we are fully in line. Therefore, I have nothing to add either – will just refer to the debate that was in Odelstinget on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-upper.ana.ud2243e410	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox His J. Røsjorde made the proposals he himself referred to. The President will recommend that we vote first on the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right and then on the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-upper.ana.ud2243e427	The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-upper.ana.ud2243e439	No one has asked for the floor. The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-upper.ana.ud2243e455	I would refer to the debate on this issue in Odelstinget and the good work done by the Progress Party. In a number of areas, we had a parallel view of the right hand side. Therefore, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right, I would like to make the following proposals: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-upper.ana.ud2243e473	Mr Kleppe has put forward the proposal he himself has referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-upper.ana.ud2243e483	The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-upper.ana.ud2243e497	On behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, I would like to address our proposal from the Odelstinget regarding the Auditor's Act. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-upper.ana.ud2243e521	Mr Dalheim has put forward the proposal he himself has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-upper.ana.ud2243e524	On behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left, I would like to refer to the debate in Odelstinget, where proposals were made on our part. But since it was rejected, we don't take it up here in Lagting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-upper.ana.ud2243e529	Several have not asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17-upper.ana.ud2243e537	The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
