ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e56	From the Norwegian delegation to the 44th session of the Western European Union Parliamentary Assembly, Part Two, in Paris, there is an application, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr Fridtjof Frank Gundersen. The application concerns a period of leave from 30 November to 3 December for the representatives of Grethe Fossli, Ingvald Godal, Laila Kaland, Jørgen Kosmo, Finn Kristian Marthinen and Fridtjof Frank Gundersen. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: André Kvakkestad and Rikke Lind. For the state of Buskerud: Unni Hennum Lie. For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Ottar Kaldhol. For Telemark County: Gunn Marit Helgesen. For Vestfold County: Karin Lian.Rikke Lind and Ottar Kaldhol are elected to the Lagation for the time they meet the representatives of Grethe Fossli and Laila Kaland.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e125	I would like to address the proposal that has been distributed to the representatives and that, in the opinion of the SV, this case should be sent back to the Swedish Government's payroll commission with the clear message that the remuneration of the depositors and the members of the Government should not increase more than the general salary increase. This is because, now supported by the Presidency, the Grand Duchy’s Wage Commission has proposed in crowns significant wage increases for depositors, members of the government and the Prime Minister, but also in percent a significant increase in wages in addition to what others have received in this salary settlement, although there has been a very good pay settlement. On the SV side, we believe that there should be no increase in the pay gap in society, nor should the Stortinge should take the lead in the desire for an increase in pay differentials or an increase in pay levels in general. In crowns, this is a significant increase in wages, especially for Prime Minister and government members, but also for gross domestic product representatives. As we know, people live on dollars and not on percentages. Many places in the labour market are now discussing pay systems to shift them in a more performance-oriented direction, with more emphasis on ‘profits’, as it is called. I also do not believe that the argument that was to be put forward today is that government members and the Prime Minister deserve a salary increase of NOK 65 000. Nor does it seem that there are any significant recruitment problems for government offices right now. On the contrary, there was one who whispered behind me, now I understand why they are holding on so well! This is where the proposal is addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e138	Kristin Halvorsen has taken up the suggestion she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 494]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e154	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 495]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e168	The President will draw attention to the fact that the printed vote is not currently distributed in the Chamber, but that it will be distributed during the debate and in good time before voting. At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that lines are not allowed after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e179	St. Prop. No 85 for 1997-98 concerns the partial toll financing of new Rv 35 between Rv 4 in the municipality of Lunner in Oppland and the new main airport at Gardermoen in Nannestad municipality in Akershus. The project was first mentioned in St.prp. No 90 for 1991-92 on the development and financing of the primary aerodrome of Oslo on the Gardermoen and associated accommodation system. The road costs are estimated at 570 million. 1998-krona. Development will be a combination of State resources and a toll contribution of 130 million. kr. The project is intended to have a benefit of approx. 300 million. kr. Rv 35 on the Jessheim-Hønefoss route will also be included in the main road network once a new road on the Lunner-Gardermoen route has been adopted. A unanimous committee indicates that the project Rv 35 Lunner-Gardermoen is a project linking West Oppland and Ringerreich to the new main airport at Gardermoen. The road will also be an important bypass north of Oslo, an outer ring that will relieve heavily trafficked areas. The Committee has also noted that the project has social profitability and that the road provides good opportunities for the further development of municipalities and regions as they are linked to the new growth area of a new main aerodrome. The Committee considers that the Ringerix region will only benefit fully from this project once the remainder of the route against Henefoss is completed. There's, as most people probably know, a little bit left. The Committee agrees unanimously with the toll financing scheme for Rv 35 Lunner-Gardermoen, with a toll ratio of approximately 10 %. 23 pst. of the total costs. The Committee also agrees with the Ministry’s view on the socio-economic assessments in relation to the low toll ratio. The Committee assumes that such a low toll ratio, 23 pst, will be the exception and not the rule in toll projects. Toll-intensive projects must therefore be subject to specific treatment on the basis of an overall socio-economic assessment. Then, on behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to say that I think it is really happy every time I see a new road project with a positive cost-benefit start up in Norway. This road was actually to be completed and in operation today. But as many people probably know, there have been some local squabbling and various exchanges of views about outdoor interests and short or long tunnels, which have trained the matter for far too long. It is therefore gratifying that a joint committee has gone in for this road. I myself am well-known and know well how this road is winter time. Many accidents could be saved if the road had been completed at the same time as the aerodrome opening. It should be a cross of thought for those who do not want new and modern roads all the time. The Progress Party sees the importance of this road being built as quickly as possible and has recommended that the toll company Hadelandsvegen A/S finance funds for a previous start-up. The Progress Party sees road safety and social benefits as the earliest possible completion of the road.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e198	Before the 1992 decision to build the new main airport on Gardermoen, the road we have today for treatment was one of several important road projects mentioned. I allow myself to quote from it after and after so much mentioned St.prp. No 90 for 1991-92: ‘In view of the objectives of achieving regional development in connection with the aerodrome project, the State Road Administration has investigated and recommended a new road link from Rv 4 in Lunner to Rv 174 at Gardermoen.’ And on the other hand, ‘A new route will provide close contact with the airport to Hadeland, the Gjøvik area and the Ringerik area of Buskerud and provide the basis for regional ring-effects in these districts.’ So it's an important regional road project we're now dealing with. Yes, today we should probably call it an important national road project. The new link between Hadeland and Rome will be an extremely important East-West link and will be an important link for traffic from all over the West to Sweden. The road becomes one of the country's 18 so-called tribal routes. Parts of Uppland and Buskerud will not be fully counted out of the new main aerodrome until this main route is in place. A joint transport committee is in favour of allowing the toll company Hadelandsvegen A/S to collect tolls on the new road. In other words, the road has to be partly financed. It has been estimated that a quarter of the total cost is 570 million. kr shall be charged in the case of tolls. As with other major expansions, there have been many, and partly intense, local debates on the road running on both sides of the county border, on whether the very greatest discussion has probably been the discussion of the short or long tunnel through the Rome Riksasen in Lunner. The Committee is also aware that there have been local discussions on other issues. Here you can see the discussions about moose, game passes, exit parking lots and cross-resolution in Maura. These are issues that need to be resolved through the local planning process. It will be completely unmanageable for Stortinget to address regulatory issues in road and rail development, if anyone in this case has been involved. I hope that the Storting today joins the unanimous vote. In that case, my hope is that the spade will be in the ground in two years, and that the new road between Gardermoen and Lunner will be ready for opening in the autumn in five years. At that opening I assume that today's president will also be present as his new function.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e226	As a representative from Uppland, I would like to say that Rv 35 between Lunner and Gardermoen is a road section that has created a great deal of commitment to my home state, and which, of course, I am also concerned about. The road section will be part of the tribal road network, tribal road route 17. In fact, it is of great importance to the region of Hadeland and Ringerik, as well as to the whole of West Oppland and Rome. Shorter travel time and better access to the aerodrome provide better accessibility both to the national market and to international markets. In the Uppland state, there are great opportunities for industrial development by the fact that this cross-link is now coming. It is therefore gratifying for many that this case today – hopefully – is being adopted in the Stortinget. The project has a toll ratio of 23 p.m., and it has been set up to collect tolls for 13 years. From a national perspective, this is a low toll share, and it is not desirable that this be a pattern for future expansions. At the same time, local authorities have had as their starting point that the road should have been fully financed by state resources. As far as I know, it would be difficult to get the local authorities involved in the project if there were to be a higher toll share. However, I would like to stress that there is an overall committee which assumes that such a low toll share will be the exception and not the rule for future toll projects. It is worth pointing out that this project actually has a positive cost-benefit fraction of 0.7 and that the net benefit of the project has been estimated at 300 million. kr. I absolutely do not want to become a spokesperson for the use of net benefit assessments as the most important criterion in the evaluation of new projects, but when, after all, we are facing a project that has a positive utility, it is worth taking along. The project has an impact on large parts of the Uppland State as the route to the new main aerodrome — especially for those parts of the county that are far away. Many typical district municipalities in Valdres and West Oppland will gain easier access to the new main airport with this expansion. Locally, on the Uppland side, there has been a great commitment and a great debate about the choice between short and long tunnels. The project goes through a larger, relatively pristine forest area and affects Elva Leira, which is permanently protected from power development. Environmental considerations have been used as arguments for a long tunnel. Even after the decision on short tunnels, the interest and commitment have been high for adjustments that could reduce the environmental disadvantages. Personally, I see that the solution chosen is not without environmental policy implications, and I understand the great local commitment that has been. However, another solution has cost implications and may have implications for the progress of the project. I don't think anyone deserves it. There has also been a discussion of the spraying of parts of state resources to support progress. In this case it must be based on local decisions, and it is well up to the local authorities to address this matter. However, the greatest local commitment is linked to the completion of the road as soon as possible, and we have come a long way further with it when the committee is unanimous in this position and we hope today that the matter will be decided in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e243	The store is invited today to take decisions on the construction of a new row 35 from Lunner to Gardermoen. Plant start-up is assumed towards the end of 2000 and completion in the autumn of 2003. The new road is part of tribal road route 17 and will improve the connection to the Gardermoen for Buskerud and the southern parts of Uppland. The project was thus mentioned for the first time in St.prp. No 90 for 1991-92 as part of the accommodation system for Gardermoen. This road system was approved by the Right in the handling of Norwegian road and road traffic plans 1998-2007. The road will provide a communication improvement for Hadeland and the Ring Kingdom as well as for the whole of Western Oppland and Rome. Shorter travel time to the aerodrome will significantly improve the availability of the lower parts of Uppland to national and international markets. This road project is estimated at 570 million. kr and financed by a combination of State resources and tolls. That's assuming 440 million. SEK in State resources and SEK 130 million. kr in tolls, i.e. a toll percentage of only 23 pst. The Ministry stresses that the project is intended to be socio-economically profitable with a net cost-benefit ratio of 0,7 and a net benefit of 300 million. 1998-krona. The Ministry also refers to the strong regional importance of this road, and on that basis, as has been said, an overall committee ends up as low a toll as in this project. However, I would like to emphasise that in future projects such a low toll share must be accepted only exceptionally. Until the new national road is completed, a significant increase in traffic is expected on the existing county road and minor improvements are recorded pending new roads. It is also apparent from the proposition that the road is to remain open to traffic when the new road is built. Since this is a county road, this is primarily a matter for local authorities, but I would find it reasonable that the counties consider the need for a county road parallel to the new Rv 35, and that such an assessment is made when the new road is completed. There is a significant local commitment to provide for the start-up of this road construction, and there have been indications that the toll company wishes to shoot at the time of borrowing. The Ministry of Transport is initially willing to assess the advance, and there may be a case for Stortinget later. On the right, we have not taken a position on possible foreclosure, but there may be a somewhat more fundamental debate on foreclosure, because the foreclosure of major road projects binds the state's future appropriations up to repayment and thus limits the future freedom and priorities of the Stortinge. Otherwise, the Right button will also end up in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e258	There has been a great local involvement in the case of new Rv 35 from Lunner to the new main airport at Gardermoen. At the same time as it has been of great interest for this road to come, it has been divided about how one should take care of the nature and the environment in the best possible way. Although the Storting case is to be considered, whether it is to be financed, or more precisely to be partly financed by this project, it has been to the point of view and listen to the views of municipal, county and state authorities. The Committee has also received its views from the landowners and nature protection and outdoors interest groups. Even if the road does not have an effect on the protected or proposed protected area under the laws of nature, it will have an effect on the Elva Leira, which is permanently protected from the build-up of the watercourse laws. After seeing and meeting with different parties, it can be concluded that those with a particular interest in the environment, nature protection and outdoors or business interests have had and still have objections to parts of the solution chosen. From the proposition, the Ministry’s assessment of the project stressed that a new Rv 35 would provide significantly better access to the new main aerodrome for the south of Oppland and Buskerud. An important argument is also that the project is socially viable. The Ministry has not hidden the fact that the project brings environmental disadvantages, but one has tried to reduce them through various measures. The Ministry has also pointed out that the choice of road and detailed design has been made in accordance with the Law on Planning and Building, where different considerations have been expressed on behalf of each other. As has already been said, the case we are dealing with here today, partly toll financing for the new Rv 35 Lunner – Gardermoen. The majority of the Committee also commented only on the project as a toll project in its comments. The centre party is part of the plurality which joins the partial toll financing of the new Rv 35, even if the toll part is lower than the usual toll part for the toll project. Finally, like several others before me, I would like to stress that the low toll component should be the exception and not the rule for future toll projects.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e273	It is fundamentally unnecessary to give a justification for the project since an overall committee sees the transport necessity of the new road, from the Gardermo outer ring, etc. I should therefore not repeat what others have said. We also know that most road projects have some environmental consequences. It is now clear that the long tunnel has been shut down. What we in SV have tried to point out is that with some adjustments to the project we are now going into, we might be able to mitigate some of the impacts on the environment. What we've been trying to suggest is that within this project you might want to look at an adjustment of the tunnel – that's a 250 m extension – and look at the location of the toll crossing. There's been little response in the committee to that, whether it's been suggested from the pulpit that maybe you should have looked at it. What surprises me even more is that it is almost as a premise of the government's submission that the highway is still going to function as a parallel road. It should almost be the opposite, assuming that it was closed as a road, because it has no transport function. I think of it as a resource waste to maintain a parallel road. In addition, many people here have said several times that there is a very low toll ratio. The road may have a certain rejection effect which makes it even more difficult to reach that proportion. I would of course also see it as positive that Stortinget gave a signal to the states that it was considered reasonable that the road was either brought back to the former owners as forest roads, or that it – if they did not have an interest in it – was brought back to nature, and that would be a positive side to it. That is why I appreciated the post by the representative, Mr. Gjerpe Hansen, who from the pulpit said that she did not really see any function for a highway, and encouraged the counties to look at it when the new road was finished. I hope that representatives from several parties can give that kind of signal from the pulpit, if you don't want to do it in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e284	St. pp. No 85 for 1997-98 deals with a partially bomb-financed road, 23 p.m. bomb-financed, as many have said. It's a piece of a tribal road that should have been all the way up to Henefoss in the same sling. Only then would we have a full exploitation, as the way of relief for parts of the West, for the western regions of the Austland and Hallingdal, which is one of the country's largest travel-life regions. I must, as a district representative from the ‘strike within’ utility, speak from. The trip time to the main airport at Gardermoen was ‘bottle’ for this part of the country. For large groups of people it will still be the road to or about Oslo that will be used. Travel time is very important based on a level playing field. It applies to the tourism industry, but it also applies, for example: for a large region such as Kongsberg with its peak competence. Time is money for all of us. It has now only been so. Rejection of the aerodrome from the western regions is likely to show this in clear terms. There will be other airports that will be their choice. It is important that the path to the magnet of a main aerodrome should not wait indefinitely before finding the reasonable solutions. The Ringerix region and the surrounding municipalities, both in Uppland and Akershus, will have an increased pressure on the market by people who want to settle there. Over time, some of the people who find their place of work associated with the Gardermo will probably settle in these areas. The region with Henefoss as the city will have a sweet pressure, but the working path will not be that good yet. I feel the need to share these points of view with you. A new roadblock solves some challenges, but in this case, as in a number of other cases, among other things. in Buskerud, it will be a bit said that parcels before the road is complete, so that the road to Gardermoen still will not be marked with a wide red line on the map. It will still be such that parts of the road prevent it. Of course, the utility won't be the maximum, but we'll try to catch up with that project in good time, so that the maximum effect can be achieved as quickly as possible. In the meantime, we're going to enjoy the improvements for those on the road who will be able to replace the tire they have, and not least an improvement for those who live, school, and so on. along today's trajectory, with the strongly increasing traffic as we all see.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e305	New Rv 35 between Lunner and Gardermoen was first mentioned to Stortinget in the proposition on the extension of the Gardermoen, St.prp. No 90 for 1991-92. The road was not properly included in the decision to expand the aerodrome and the Gardermoban, but it was already highlighted at the time that the road would be important to exploit the regional ring-effects open to the new airport. I am therefore pleased that the Committee supports the Government's proposal to build a new cross-link from Rv 4 to the new airport. As you know, the Government is in favour of projects where there is a local willingness to contribute its own funds. In this case, there has been a willingness to participate in tolls, in addition to the fact that county councils have provided guarantees and entered into the conditional reimbursement scheme. That means there's local willingness to take a roof. Having said that, however, I will not fail to draw attention to the toll ratio of 23 p.m. is lower than what is usually accepted, and I have noticed that the committee believes that such a low proportion should be the exception and not the rule. Once the Government has accepted the low share of this project, it is because the project is intended to be socio-economically profitable and because the road could be of great regional importance. However, I can inform you that the Government does not intend to change the general rule that toll projects should have a toll ratio of 50 pst. As planning has shown, the project is not unproblematic if we look at the environmental conditions. For example, the path of the vegetation through a larger, relatively pristine forest area and affects the river Leira, such as: is permanently protected from power build-up. However, environmental impacts have been sought through, inter alia, reductions. construction of a 3,8 km long tunnel between Grua and Brovoll. The road will also have multiple levelled crossing points for game, and there will be remedial measures when crossing the Leira. As in all projects, the disadvantages have to be weighed against the benefits, and the Government therefore considers that the measures envisaged will provide sound conditions. Let me also point out that in the context of planning it has been necessary to use government plan. As can be seen from the Norwegian Road and Road Transport Plan, the use of a State plan based on specific criteria could be relevant for roads of national importance. Since this is a tribal road, previous governments have found it necessary to use a government plan and thus to review local wishes. This government has found no reason to review these assessments, and I believe that the solutions it has finally come up with will prove to be both good and sound. I hope and believe that, overall, the new road will be a good and forward-looking solution, both locally, regionally and nationally, and that the scheme that the Government now seems to have a say in, will prove to be a good one. With regard to the remarks that have fallen on the road during the debate, according to the management system we have, the county council is classifying such roads. That is how we have put the governance system into place in the road sector now, that the states and the regional branch have increased influence, and then we, who act nationally, also have to take these rules into account.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e322	Yes, it is well that it is not expected to be of little use waiting for something good, and finally there is now a decision to launch Rv 35. And when I say it this way, it's because the process has so far been incredibly long and partly circumstantial. Many already had - with a background in the mention of the project in St.prp. No 90 for 1991-92 on the extension of Gardermoen – expectations that this cross-connection would be completed until the opening of Gardermoen. If there was not to be an exploration by borrowing, which I hope will be seen positively in the aftermath of this case – it is now time for a plant start in 2000 and an opening in 2003. It is good that processes are thorough, that environmental and traffic considerations are taken into account, and also economic considerations as far as is advisable, of course. But this project shows that planning processes can be time- and cost-consuming. Since the adoption of a State regulatory plan in October 1997, there has also been a very long period of time. But enough about it, I'm happy for the committee's overall attitude and that it's a deal about the value of this way. The Gardermoen is a sorely needed new main airfield, but with its location it is also an important vitamin injection for the establishment and development of businesses in the eastern part of the world. And in such a context, this road is of great value to the region of Hadeland and Ringerix. The road is very important to get traffic to and from Gardermoen in a defensive way, it is important as a route for the Oslo area, and it is important for the aviation base of Gardermoen, all in all a social benefit that the ministry also finds so satisfying that it can afford as low a toll as 23 pst. It's very good that a consensual committee also follows up on this. From the Upland side, this has been a high priority road project that has been pursued with great commitment and enthusiasm, even with many obstacles and inconveniences en route, especially on the plane side. And it is good to note that, without any objection from the committee, the department also finds a conditional refund of 40 million. kr and a county guarantee from Uppland and Akershus of 160 million. Although the cost calculations increased after the county treatment on which these amounts were based, they were satisfactory. The environmental consequences have led to the greatest discussions, especially when it comes to the question of long or short tunnels in Lunner. The solution now in place leads to tunnels, game-related measures, choice of trasé and a series of remedial measures, making the project now environmentally acceptable, especially in relation to traffic being detonated on the roadside over the Roman Riksåssen. It's an important decision here, and a good step in the development of the Jessheim-Honefoss tribal route. Once this box is completed, the potential for the Ringerix region and the orbit around Oslo will be fully exploited.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e336	I have not asked for the word for the second time to prove that I deserve the salary increase that we treated earlier today, but it was the post to Myrvoll that made me take the word again. SV tells you that it is a good idea for you to close the current highway for transit when the new road is activated. Myrvoll called for signals from other parties in the debate today if more could be involved. I just want to signal back that for the Workers' Party it is not relevant to be on such signals at all. Myrvoll also said something like that today's highway will have no transport significance when the new road is put into service. I'll take a distance from that. In any case, the state road of the day will have an important local transport importance. There is a significant open-air and cabin area we are talking about, and there are also some homes that need the current county road both on the Lunner side and on the Nannestad side. It cannot be the Storting's job to reclassify county roads or to close county roads, and when it is such that it is a road that the local population needs to the greatest extent, it cannot at least be the job of the large-scale community to make it harder for people living in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e343	Although I support the majority in this matter, I cannot agree when several speakers have expressed the general view that 23 pst. toll share should be the exception and not the road construction rule. With the significant funds taken into account by the State on car and car use, the rule should be that roads are built without tolls, and in cases where there is local agreement on toll financing, the toll ratio should be as low as possible and available for the use of alternative roads without tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e348	The Council of State pointed out that the counties are responsible for this classification. I respect that, and that's why I'm just giving a signal about what we think is desirable, and that's why I haven't made any suggestion to downgrade, because that would make me feel like an intervention towards the states. But I've wanted to give a signal that I don't think of this as sensible resource use. Had it been earlier in the process, one could consider whether it was right to have a parallel road with a certain rejection effect in relation to the toll collection. But it's too late to enter into this process when this is like an agreement that we have to deal with. So to the representative Myrli: It is clear that I do not want to close this road as a local road for those who have a house or cabin. I have suggested that it might be reasonable to return the road to former owners as a forest road, I want to give the counties a signal that we think it could be a reasonable way to use resources, and not maintain this as a parallel road to the new road. I therefore think it is sad that Myrli could not give such signals. And I think he went a little far in his way of arguing, because no one has thought that people should not get to their houses. It would have been a little messy!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e355	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e369	Although the case rapporteur chooses to deal with this communication, it is an important matter for the Progress Party, and I want to use my allocated time to say a few words about the Council's activities and accounts. The Board of Commerce is based on the revenue from a variable turnover tax from producers and on the appropriations for the annual agricultural agreement, in order to ensure safe and even provision for producers for their output and prices regulated under the agricultural agreement. The Progress Party believes that current regulations through price and market cooperation are unfortunate for Norwegian consumers. The activities of the Turnover Council as part of the command economy of agriculture contribute to a high level of costs and weaken competitiveness. Therefore, there is a need to phase out the activities of the Turnover Council in line with other public intervention mechanisms in agriculture. Why should the law on sales and the Council on turnover continue when it comes to a law over 60 years old, which is comparable to the one in former Eastern Europe, where it was not primarily thought about what consumers and the market were doing? You can produce and produce and ensure that the goods are received through a rigid law and regulation. This will, of course, damage manufacturers in the longer term and be unfortunate for consumers. We should have come further in 1998 and left a system reminiscent of former Eastern European conditions, ensuring protection against competition. The system became an end in itself, becoming a clumsy hand over social development and disregarding the interests of its citizens. The Progress Party has worked for a long time to repeal the Sale Act. In the past, on several occasions, we have made proposals to take the poultry and green sector out of the law. These are areas where it would be relatively easy to adapt to domestic consumption, but unfortunately we have not received a majority in the Storting. Nevertheless, it is only a matter of time before a shift in market policy, with more competition in turnover, will force itself forward. In addition, the Industry Law Committee and the Competition Authority support our proposals. For a period of time, a working group appointed by the Economic and Social Committee took account of different regulatory arrangements in the agricultural sector. A critical search light was placed on the system of placing on the market for agricultural products and a number of recommendations were made. Among other things, the working group considered that public regulation of the poultry and green sectors should be abolished. Someone must always go ahead, pull up the loop, remove some old watering and some sacred cows, and in this case the Progress Party is doing that job. I hope and believe that it will soon be a majority so that something can happen in relation to the 60-year-old law on turnover – this as part of an important effort to eliminate the concentration of power represented by the Council of Turnover, for the benefit of consumers, taxpayers, the industry itself and the exporting countries of the Third World.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e384	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e398	The matter that we now have to deal with here in Stortinget, has been lying and making up for itself since before the summer vacation. I have registered that more and more have expressed sympathy for this Document No. Our 8 proposal, and I feel that time has worked for the views behind it. Time is enough mature to do part of this – not to say overmature. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee acknowledges the need for an evaluation of precisely this piece of legislation. And one of the most interesting things about the development that you've seen is what's happened in the Workers' Party in this area. What I have recorded both from internal seminars, in the national government position, and even at national meetings on this issue, and not least the wording of the National Government of the Workers' Party, where there is talk of a multiple of the concessional limit, is definitely interesting. The change in attitude has well been gradual and is not among the changes in attitudes that have taken place in the Workers' Party overnight at the national meeting. I'll assume this is one of the more thoughtful. The main issue of right-wing concerns in concession law regarding changes is first and foremost to do something about the purpose paragraph, and we believe that owning a piece of the country is a good thing in itself. For this reason, we believe that the purpose paragraph of this law should include formulations aimed at giving as much as possible access to real estate – that legislation simply facilitates the achievement of such a goal. Another area we've taken up is what goes on the state's right of pre-emption. Today, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Board of Agriculture have the right of pre-emption in property transactions. We believe that the developments we have seen in this area are such that it has never been more relevant than now to ask questions about whether this pre-emptive right should at all be continued, substantially whether it should be continued in the way it is practised today. Another point that we have raised in this proposal goes on with the state's right to set prices. Here are many disparate examples that, in my opinion, underpin the need to eliminate this at all. The model and the regulations governing the pricing of properties have so much remarkable that they are not intelligible either to politicians or to those concerned. We've seen so many examples of individual things only in the last year that it's amazing, where investments made, in the last few years before a real estate transfer, have little impact on pricing. Other things that seem to have a minor impact on pricing are, for example, whether forest on the property is sparse or mature – this is a small reflection of the price setting that public authorities arrive at. The entire policy in this area is based on the buyer and to a very small extent on the interests of the seller. In addition, we consider it necessary to clarify in the law that the terms of concession treatment should have a clear legal basis and be within the meaning of the law. This has to do with several aspects, not least the issue of legal certainty for citizens. They need to know that the conditions that are set are based on the will of the legislator. We need to be aware that the procedure that takes place, wherever it is – whether it is at municipal level or at county level or at the end of the department – is largely based on the exercise of discretion. There are many examples of this discretionary exercise that vary greatly from municipality to municipality and from state to state. And not least within a law where there is so much power legislation, it is important to do what can to ensure legal certainty for citizens. The last point we've raised in our proposal is at a lower concession limit. The concession limit of 5 dekars has probably remained unchanged since the concession law was introduced early in the 1970s. We suggest that this should be changed to 50 decars. The time must definitely be past because the 5 dekar is the only reasonable and logical limit. When the limit is so low, the consequence is that an incredibly large number of concessional issues are to be dealt with by case handlers and political bodies in the municipalities. There is considerable social costs, both in terms of public spending on the proceedings and in terms of private economic resources used to achieve the desired outcome. Those of us who have had a local political career – if one is to call local policies for a career – have experienced it, and that is to the extreme, the commitment that both buyers and sellers show to achieve their goals, and that is also true of all those who want additional land in connection with any soil patch to be sold. I think too much resources are wasted on this. I think we have to raise the limit on the free movement of a property. It is therefore particularly interesting to see that the Workers' Party has moved – I would say a lot in a sensible direction – and I look forward to the treatment that the case will receive after the evaluation in the agricultural report for spring. And on the basis of what's in the position, and not least on the basis of what I've seen of political treatment in other parties and some examples you've seen of individual matters, which I guess have made an impression on politicians other than those from the Right and the Advance Party, I feel convinced of and look forward to a change in the current state from which time has simply passed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e417	There is currently too restrictive legislation applicable to agricultural properties. This represents a serious threat to the individual’s freedom – that is, the freedom to own and possess his own property. The Progress Party will remove most of these restrictions, including: on the sale of agricultural and forestry property, as well as abolishing the State’s right of pre-emption and removing the existing provisions relating to the obligation to live and operate. We believe that the individual farmer must decide for himself the exploitation of his own land and then shape the investments. The Progress Party has put forward a number of proposals aimed at reducing the authorities’ ability to scald and choose with human property, which may cause personal financial problems. As early as 1990, we promoted a proposal to repeal the law on concession and public pre-emption by acquiring real estate. This has been followed up by similar proposals in the examination of proposals for new land laws and changes in the provisions on housing and compulsory employment under the Odel Act and the Concession Act. Today’s concession law involves, in principle, a clear violation of ownership. This is very worrying because ownership is one of the most fundamental carriers in our democracy, while at the same time it represents the best guarantee of achieving proper national resource management. The concession law shall meet the need for regulation and control of the turnover of real estate in accordance with its purpose paragraph. With this regulatory and control system, one has succeeded in keeping prices artificially low on some properties, but because the law results in growth, especially in urban areas, it has stimulated and partly forced payment forms under the table. The concession law is almost 25 years old, and much has changed in society since its adoption. Now this law has to be repealed, we believe, so that low prices and evaporation in ownership can be replaced by the possibility of higher prices, more efficient use of resources and more residents of the country. We do not understand that it should be so difficult to bring together a majority to liberalise legislation in this area. Why cannot the purchaser and the seller himself determine the price of the disposal of agricultural property? I'm just asking. We do not need a price understanding to decide the question! If the buyer and the seller agree on the price, they act. This is also the case when a buyer buys a car or a dwelling. Therefore, the market price should also be used for agricultural properties. There is nothing to suggest that the concession law is an appropriate tool to promote sound resource use in a comprehensive agricultural policy. Whether we like it or not, the self-employed in the food production industry will in the future be forced to take more responsibility for their own income, therefore, instead of compromising on an inappropriate piece of legislation, we should facilitate the situation. This can be done by reducing the level of regulation that prevents agriculture from being rational and efficient, and soil and concession legislation is central to this. The document we are discussing today is a step in the right direction, and the proposed changes will counteract some of the most unfortunate outcomes of today's legislation. The notified agricultural notification will be an appropriate opportunity to make progress on this. On that basis, I would like to take up the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party referred to in the vote. In recent times, agricultural property issues have been the focus of attention. On the one hand, those who believe that legislation is a barrier to active users of soil and forest that can increase value creation if a free market is realised. On the other hand, there are central forces, including: in the agricultural organisations, which are fighting against any liberalisation of agricultural legislation. In this context, it is commendable that Norskog has taken the initiative in a project to look at how the law is involved in managing the value creation in Norwegian agriculture. The focus is on analysing how to increase activity. The main objective of the project is to clarify the importance for value creation of a functioning market for agricultural and forestry property in Norway. The research project is already under way and is being carried out by the Institute for Economics and Social Affairs at the Norwegian Agricultural Higher School. The final report of the project is expected to be available in August 1999. This could give the Storting valuable input, which may be important when dealing with issues of public regulation of the property market and value creation in Norwegian agriculture at a later stage and in the context of the processing of the agricultural notification.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e436	Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e439	There has been a lot of focus on what is called the multifunctional role of agriculture. In other words, the task of agriculture is not just to produce the food that is needed, but it is an important tool in rural policy to preserve living areas and housing around this country. It is clear that to achieve those objectives, a regulatory framework must be in place. Without a plan economy and a regulatory framework for agriculture, but leaving it to the free market, we would have a completely different rural environment than we have today. In this way, the concession law, the law of nobility and the law of the land have been useful, but it does not mean that one does not now need to go in and see if this legislation is now meeting our agricultural policy objectives and is working in the right direction. The working party has opened up for evaluation and review. We have also gone so far, most recently in connection with our national meeting on the weekend, that we say that one should perhaps open up to a higher limit when it comes to concession treatment. We believe that one should perhaps tighten up the law of nobility and, at the same time, give a stronger priority to agricultural transfers, and we have the idea of a possible lower limit for the conversion into agricultural activity, which is a limit for prioritising one with state transfers. In any case, this is something we have to do in a thorough way, in a process that has to go along with the nutritionists. I think that the right way to get into this is when the agricultural message that the Council of State has warned will come in in 1999, there is a lead. We've given some signals and hints in which direction we want to go. So we're not in disagreement here that there's a need to look at the law, but we want to do this in a bigger context, so we're sure that we make the right decisions and have insight into the consequences that have to come.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e448	When an agricultural message is given in a relatively short time and the work is already in progress, it is right to consider this matter in a broader perspective and in a more general agricultural policy context. The reason why I now take the floor is that I want to express that the Left has sympathy for many of the thoughts that the Right has in this area. I don't want to go into details, but I already want to say here that we probably don't go as far as the Right will do. A lower concession limit of 50 measures is to go too high. But that limit is adjusted, well, some time is ripe for. Furthermore, the Left departs from formulations such as the obvious damage of State pre-emption rights to rural settlements. I think that if the market had managed this completely freely, the buildings would have looked different, and we would also have had a different cultural landscape than what we have today. I will only briefly express my understanding that the Right wants to give a signal through its own proposal in this matter. As I said, we're going to be open to and discuss many of the things that the Right says. However, I assume that both the Right and the Advance Party at this point in time seem to be right to consider the proposals in the context of the forthcoming agricultural notification.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e459	In contrast to the previous speakers, SV takes the floor in this debate to express a little less sympathy for the Right and the Progress Party stands for views on this matter. We also want a review of the law, because we want to develop rather than wind up agriculture. We want to focus more on housing than housing, we think it's a right angle. However, if ownership and market mechanisms are to be the only guidelines for agricultural policy below, they will be liquidated. We want a review of both the law and the law of concession. We want a review and a redistribution of resources within agriculture, then with the opposite angle of incidence of the Workers' Party's speeches when he was up here talking about a lower limit. On the other hand, we think it is time to get an upper limit on transfers for large use. We also want the review to have as its main objective a continuous ecology of Norwegian agriculture. We need a policy to produce food in Norway. It's a multifunctional goal, as Rudihagen said. But if we don't keep a firm hold on food production, agriculture will lose. Norwegian agriculture has to be something other than the big mass production going on in other countries, we lose anyway if we put ourselves on that line. Therefore, the ecologicalisation of agriculture in general, but also in particular, must be a key objective of all the policy reviews that will be included in the main messages. We will come back to this when the Storing Message arrives. We're going to go into it with the aim of reforming, but then in the opposite direction of the Right and Advance Party has been talking about today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e474	I had probably initially thought that there would be relatively few comments on this matter, because a majority of the committee has said that they want to discuss this issue in the context of the notified agricultural notification that will be submitted. Since the Central Party is in the majority position, we have said that we are positive about getting an evaluation of the law, but that does not mean that we have said that we are positive about making changes to the law. The evaluation to be carried out shall, of course, form the basis for making certain changes to it. But let me now say that when you turn the concession law into a question of market mechanisms and free price formation on agricultural properties, you have respectfully not understood much of the dynamics of Norwegian agricultural policy. In particular, in the areas represented by the representative Gabrielsen, such a system, combined with a dramatic increase in the concession threshold, will result in a disruption of agriculture. A shift to market prices combined with a higher concession threshold would result in the possibility of converting agricultural property for agricultural purposes, either as self-contained units of use or as additional land. And when this proposal comes from those parties that at the same time want strong pressure both on price development, on income development and on the use size of the agricultural industry, it becomes another paradox to use the only means of regulating the prices of agricultural property, in a direction that makes agriculture economically viable. These mechanisms are to be removed – leave the market raw – while believing that it will be possible to obtain larger and more rational units that will in addition be cheaper to operate. But let's do it – the big message that comes will show this, and we will have a more thorough debate then. I just want to signal that we are of course positive for an evaluation, although I have limited my faith in the possibilities for making changes to the system we have today. I am very pleased with what Mr Rudihagen has said in his speech. I fully agree with what he has said, that this is an important foundation of agricultural policy, that the settlement of many rural areas will be dramatically changed if substantial changes are made to this legislation. In any case, the Labour Party has recognised that this is a central element of Norwegian agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e485	I think it has been a positive debate. Although the last post of the Central Party representative perhaps helped to reduce what could have been a very successful conclusion to this debate, I think there is still reason to look a little optimistic about the follow-up, because here one after the other is saying that one is willing to review today's concession law. I can't see anything but that this must have traces in it to be able to end positively. I don't think we should be involved in a debate like this in the other aspects of agriculture and the laws in force. I think it is necessary to make a clear distinction between, for example, the concession law and the nodel law, and this should not necessarily be something that is closely related to discussing the general agricultural policy further. But I think this question, which is gradually becoming rather over-mature, is also about living settlements – as this has been highlighted by a lot of people in the debate. What is district policy? Indeed, there must be the active policies of the authorities to contribute to growth and development in District Norway. And there is no doubt that Agriculture Norway is an essential part of the so-called District Norway. As for the settlement in District Norway, in rural areas, there is no doubt that if we take the trouble of looking back in time and beyond in the country, we see the old merchants who were present in the countryside, we find them in the history books. Schools are closed, because there are no more schoolchildren to fill the classrooms. We simply see that it is increasingly fewer to deliver goods and services in District Norway. We even see that those who belong in rural areas, agricultural organisations themselves, have also taken the same course as the others and moved from Agriculture-Norway with their businesses. That means that if you're not willing to look at the practice of the concession law, which, if you change it, can be a contribution to turning the flow a little, in my opinion, you haven't taken this debate sufficiently seriously. This is not the case, as SV is concerned, about the advantages of economies of scale. I think maybe the agricultural debate is going to be messed up by saying that a unit of 10, 20, 30, 40 or 50 deakers has something to do with economies of scale in Norwegian agricultural policy. But if you don't take the trouble of looking at how we can make District Norway more attractive, how we can make people prioritize to have 10, 15, 20, 30 or 50 jobs to push, and see it as more attractive than being in the city, where there are various offers to take advantage of leisure in a reasonable way, yes, then you don't take this debate seriously. When we discuss the issue of living settlements, I think it is necessary to ask questions about how much documentation is needed to look at the developments we have had in District Norway, before serious action is taken to make the marketing of agricultural properties more appropriate to help strengthen the settlement. Today, the concession law is working the opposite way. It reduces recruitment, it hinders investment/capital. The credit institutions have absolutely nothing to pledge, and then the job goes via Stortinget to increase the framework of the agricultural bank etc. – and I see that the same majority that constitutes the majority today has not been willing to take the necessary vows. I'm not going to criticize them for that, but at least we have to create arenas that allow capital to enter and contribute to growth and development even within this industry. And just to clarify, since some people want to attack the Right that we want agricultural policy to live, I will be allowed to quote what we say in the proposal: ‘It is clarified in the Act that the terms of the concession shall be within the meaning of the law.’;» I think it should be enough to understand that it is not the agricultural policy in general that we want to live, rather the opposite. Finally, I assume that when the proposal promoted by the Committee is adopted today, this will be a central part of the agricultural communication. I hope that the Council of State, which is the next to have the floor, can confirm that this will be done in a thorough and, of course, effective manner, without furthering the conclusion here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e505	The President would like to point out that the Council of State is probably not next. On the other hand, it's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e508	I am not quite sure if the representative Kristiansen found out that SV was for a review of both the concession law and the odelslaw, and that we have not expressed anything specifically about limits in this context. The reason I took the word was just the post from the Right and the Advance Party that pulled up lines that could result in such an image as I was up and described. There was no particular desire on our part to start a debate here and now about just where this limit is going. However, it was clear that the representatives who have promoted this proposal want an agricultural policy that goes in exactly the opposite direction to what we want. That's why it's important for us to highlight what we think about it, and also say a little bit about which lines we want this to go.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e516	Now I have heard the posts that have been held by representatives from the Right and the Advance Party. I think it is only positive for the debate and for the wider operation, both in agricultural policy and in rural areas, that there are different posts and policies than those found in the SV programmes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e521	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e524	I would like to say that I am pleased with the vote and, to some extent, also with the debate that has now been in the Chamber. I will confirm that this will of course be taken up for discussion in the agricultural message, with the place it deserves. It is quite obvious that legislation and legislation largely governs much of the development of agriculture, and therefore it would be totally unnatural if these issues were not part of what is discussed in the Communication. But at the same time, I want to express that changing some of these laws will clearly have side effects that you'll have to discuss as seriously. Let's take an example. The area limit for concession up to 50 dekars would probably mean that one then defines what is less than 50 dekars out of agricultural policy, and that would also mean that one defines these uses out of what might go on price regulation. This means that the market for that part of Mother Norway will be different. Of course, there will be other forces, with much greater purchasing power, which can then go in and for example. Buy a use of 50 covers, which is not so small in the Norwegian usage structure as it is today. And these side effects I now think it is right for me, as the Council of State, to ask everyone to think through in the context of the debate we are going to have, where we are going to discuss this in a larger context. If the price regulation is to be lifted, it would mean that a person would have a different recruitment in agriculture, to the extent that there are property on free sale. And part of the sustainability of Norwegian agriculture is that the price of properties is no greater than that one should be able to remunerate a use through the performance one has of it. This means, however, that performance will have to increase if the investment needed to acquire these units also increases. These are some of the paradoxes that we have to relate to when we're going through this. With regard to recruitment to Norwegian agriculture, I hope one in the future will recruit people with great creativity to achieve the goal of living settlements, which one here has been in. But then we have to be able to have an agricultural policy that, first of all, makes it interesting to be recruited into this industry. That means that you have to have a performance in this industry that makes that, for example, Young people who want to enter the industry have the opportunity to exist there. Here, there are huge challenges in Norwegian agricultural policy that we know we will meet in a couple of years, perhaps in a very uncomfortable way – at least based on what many of the representatives in this Chamber want to see, or think about, in the future. Otherwise, I just want to mention briefly that the parties that we have heard from today, including in previous settings, have also stated how these laws are to be applied. It has also been said from the Right that the application of legislation must take account of housing and industrial development, while promoting a desire for structural development. If you want to achieve all of that, for example: was in St. pp. No 8 for 1992-93, which expressed a desire for robust agriculture, one could say: If a target is to be achieved, it is necessary for a wild resource — and the funds in such a context also have much to do with the law. So I want one to come so far that one now begins to get concrete things. Of course, in connection with the communication, we have to deal with all these pieces. But one does not solve the challenges in Norwegian agriculture by abolishing the law, rather we need to look at adjustment, which may mean better achievement of the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e533	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e536	The Council of State was in its intervention on the question of living settlements. At least we have 100 pst. security can be found to be the opposite of today's concession law. In the post-war period, the concession law has experienced the largest movement of people from the districts to the central struts in the history of Norway. It considers that the Progress Party should be the main basis for looking at alternative solutions. He was also concerned about the issue of concession limits and price regulation. I have here a notice from the Evening Post of 25 March this year, where Norwegian Farmers' Associations say, "Keep your fingers away from the small farms." ‘When the seller of a small use enters into a voluntary agreement with a buyer who wants to settle and operate the facility, politicians must keep their hands off the barrel.’ Further: ‘The ministry is overrun by both municipal and county authorities, which would rather use the many small uses on sale to attract people who want to strike down in the districts.’ And assistant secretary-general of the Farm and Small User Team says: ‘We need to maintain the small use for families with children and others who want to join the countryside. Small farms are often idyllically equipped with child-friendly and pleasant tuna.’ So my question to the Council of State is: Does the Minister of Agriculture agree that today's practice of using State pre-emption rights is detrimental to district housing, local self-government and private property rights?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e556	I've often expressed – and I mean it still – that sometimes politics is rhetorical. Based on that analysis, I have tried to go into what I myself produce through political speeches. I am very concerned with achieving the goal, and that means that the rhetoric must then result in a goal. I believe – to express myself so carefully – that the concession law is in no way the cause of the migration that we have had in Norway until today. There will be completely different issues that are going to be in focus if you want to have an analysis on that question. There might be reason to think about how this should be adjusted based on a new time and new challenges, that's clearly what we're always going to do. But until today, the concession law has not been the reason for this. I would also like to say that when the representative Hedstrøm uses the Farm and Small User Team as its tabloid partner in keeping his fingers out of the way, there are some things in the policy – which the organisation expresses, which means a lot greater counting than so far on some of the budgets to be dealt with by the Storting – which I really do not seem to have been given priority by some political parties in that way. So when you pick out one flower, you might want to bring the whole bouquet in order for the picture to become relevant. With regard to the use of State pre-purchase law, it is according to the law that the Storting has passed, and I think it is used with beauty today. It is clear that one does not find one thing that is similar to another. And since one of them is in here and deals with one case in relation to two parties, it's always a party that loses. That party will be dissatisfied. But it may be that it is an objective to use the State’s pre-emptive right to strengthen another use, simply to help maintain residence, rather than the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e565	There are no more flowers to the bouquet of state councils – so the succession of lines has changed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e568	I'd like to discuss this a little bit on the Council's own premises. I will not then interfere with the market economy and free pricing of properties, but I will dwell a little on the practice that is followed. I have a concrete example: it's about a concession property, where the area is divided into seven cadastral parcels. There's a large proportion of old forest on the property. A long-term estimate of annual withdrawals is approx. 300 – 320 m3. The purchase price was NOK 500000 – this was in Grue. He who applied for a concession was very good at operating this concession property. He also had a relative relationship to the property. There is no dwelling on the concession property, but it can be operated satisfactorily from the applicant's dwelling on Kirkenær. His competence, I think I can assure, would be an enrichment of the forest environment in the countryside. And it's very good road connection to all the cadavers on the concession property. The owners are located within a limited area. The credit quality, topography and operational conditions allow the forest to operate throughout the year. Here you can see that there are a number of positive things that could possibly be introduced to the environment through such a concession search. But when the ministry is going to take a stand on this matter, they're completely choosing to ignore these things and just focus on one thing. It says here that the department agrees that the property can be operated satisfactorily from the applicant's dwelling on Kirkenær. The credit quality, topography and operational conditions enable the forest to operate throughout the year. However, one cannot see that this is a decisive factor in the exercise of pre-emptive rights. So I have the impression that this pre-purchase right is being used in a very absolute way. You look first and foremost at the arrogance of land, but you ignore the initiative that our people build very well need when it comes to people who are so interested that they want to buy such a property – and have the skills to run it. This was meant to be an input into the debate in which I understand the Council of State is interested. It concerns the application of the applicable law, and is therefore not concerned with the issue of pricing etc.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e581	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 495]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e595	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 495]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e603	The size would then go to voting on the matter 1-6 on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e609	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Mr Halvorsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal has been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e623	There is an alternative proposal from the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e688	During the debate, Øystein Hedstrøm has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the concession law in line with the proposals in Document No. 8:113 [[1997-98]] First of all, there is a vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-24.ana.ud130e731	There is no record.
