ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-29.ana.ud2158e50	The representative Haakon Blankenborg, who has been on leave, has once again taken up his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-29.ana.ud2158e65	The National Audit Office has agreed to take over the host role of the training body IDI, which is behind the World Association of National Audits. We in the Committee believe that the activities of the IDI are in line with Norwegian aid policy objectives, and a unanimous committee in this position says yes to such an establishment. Norway has supported the IDI from the outset 15 years ago. The Committee sees the importance of IDI continuing its activities in the development of national audits. Revision of Norwegian aid has shown that in many cases the national audits of the beneficiary countries have a weak position. This is an effort that can provide better use of aid, as a World Bank report, albeit unofficially, also shows the need for it. The Committee considers that Norway can contribute to democracy and good governance by enhancing the competence of national national audits, especially in developing countries. In the Committee's view, it is an important objective to enable national audits to carry out a good audit in a more efficient and economic way. In order to take over the Hostship role from 2001 onwards, it is appropriate to establish the IDI in Norway around the turn of the year 1998-99 for the gradual establishment of the Secretariat. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has undertaken to finance these activities and has to assess the annual amounts of the appropriations. The Committee assumes that, in the event of any change in the basis of the financing, the matter shall be referred again to the Enlargement. It is also worth noting that the Committee does not address the level of future aid needs to be met by means of assistance. The size has been informed about the matter several times in the past. It is particularly important to present a position before the budget is adopted, but because of outside circumstances, we do so – subject to the reservations set out in the vote. And finally, another form of case presentation would have been preferable, but the committee has been flexible and has not given the most attention to this, because of the political content and history of the matter. Without prejudice to Stortinget's treatment of the 1999 state budget, I recommend the unanimous suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-29.ana.ud2158e89	The right is in favour of the National Audit Office’s commitment to developing countries. At least for the last two years, we've been involved in comments that confirm it. For example, the Committee: Int. S. No 181 for 1996-97, concerning the annual report of the National Audit Office for 1996, said that the Committee assumes that the Riksrevision should return to the Stortingen concerning the possible establishment of an IDI Secretariat in a separate case. It's now here. However, the Right is not entirely satisfied that the Riksrevision chose to present the matter as it exists. Firstly, the appropriateness of promoting a case with significant economic implications could be discussed almost parallel to the budget proposal. It would have been at least as right and appropriate, in my view, that the matter had been thoroughly investigated in the budget proposal under the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs/Ministry of Finance and/or the Ministry of Finance and Customs. 51 The Court of Auditors. I will not be too hard on this, but it is not quite good that the Riksrevision should present a case without the economic consequences being well described in the dossier, because it is actually the case that the Committee itself had to take the initiative to explain the long-term budgetary effects and costs. This would probably have been given – I believe – an observation by the National Audit Office, if it had carried out administrative audits against another state budget. In my opinion, it is up to the National Audit Office to pay particular attention to the fact that the submissions are satisfactory, not least in terms of economic issues. They were not, at my discretion, in Document No. 3:14 for 1997-98 as regards the economy. I agree with both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Assistance that the INTOSAI exposure is good and effective development assistance. For this reason, it seems right that it is appropriate to use assistance to operate both the Secretariat and to finance projects in cooperation with other countries and organisations. However, we are concerned about future funding and will stress that our positive position on the matter is based on the fact that it will continue to use aid. Therefore, next year or later, the Riksrevision or the U.D. cannot discharge that responsibility and add up to another funding or deduct disproportionate resources from the ordinary activities of the Riksrevision. In this context, I refer you to the comitology comment on page 4, as the rapporteur did. It says: ‘The Committee will note that the work under the IDI is good development assistance, and it is therefore natural that the Norwegian contribution is financed from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ budget. The Committee assumes that, in the event of any change in the basis of the financing, the matter is re-submitted to the Enlargement in an appropriate manner.’;» This means, in clear terms, as the rapporteur also said, that other funding cannot be used without the matter being promoted in an appropriate way for the Stortinget. Should the assumption of the aid perspective change, the basis for the Norwegian IDI exposure will also fail. So here, UD and NORAD are still the source of funding for operations and projects. I strongly advise against Norway assuming a responsibility that relieves other countries of their obligations, or from the Norwegian side that we should run an IDI secretariat on the basis of – let me call it – performance considerations, funded by the ordinary budget of the National Audit Office and to the detriment of the work of the National Audit Office. Let me also refer to the comitology note where the right, together with the rest of the committee, has reserved the budgetary procedure for this autumn. And with these clarifications and with reference to the attitude of the Committee as a whole, I recommend that the Riksrevision assume the host role of the IDI Secretariat.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-29.ana.ud2158e111	The Progress Party is also pleased that the National Audit Office in Norway, which is very well regarded internationally, has now assumed responsibility for managing the IDI Secretariat and its operation. Canada has had that responsibility in the past, and we think it is important that Norway as a nation takes responsibility in this area. There has also been, as some have stressed, a discussion in the Control Committee on the manner in which the Committee has been consulted on this matter from the Riksrevision. I share the points of view that have been expressed on the matter of referral, and on the points of view that perhaps the economic aspect of taking over this role has not been well enough explored. But we have received answers to the questions we have asked, so with the reservations the Committee has taken in this area, we think it is perfectly right that the Riksrevision assumes this responsibility. The Progress Party also considers it gratifying that we are now seeing a development in part of the international commitments taken on by Norway as a nation, and that the Riksrevision, which has been given this responsibility in relation to the IDI, receives financial resources from the aid budget. We are constantly seeing the use of aid put under a critical light. We also continue to see that projects that Norway has entered into do not meet the control functions — perhaps the funds are not used in a way that benefits them as they were initially intended. It is therefore good that the Riksrevision in Norway is given responsibility in this area. We also expect that, in the long term, aid will be much more targeted at individuals and individual projects, where we will have much more money left. The party of progress therefore feels that this is good. And when we can also cover the financial commitments with funds from the aid budget, we are pleased to see that a unanimous committee now joins in what has been the aim of the Progress Party for a long time, namely to use funds in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-29.ana.ud2158e120	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 336]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-29.ana.ud2158e134	Today we have to handle Document No. 3:12 for 1997-98. This document deals with the examination by the National Audit Office of the management of the framework proposal for the Norwegian Sports Federation and the Committee has joined the content of the document with a number of comments. In St.meld. No 41 for 1991-92 on sport, it is underlined that sport is for everyone. It is an overarching objective that public sports policy and framework support to the Norwegian Sports Federation should contribute to the wide range of sport activities and sport provision. The aim is also to enable children and young people to play all-round and sport in the local environment. In this document, the National Audit Service has gone through the guidelines for the framework approach to sport and also pointed to the ear-marked funds. Changes are needed to make better use of national resources, which will also be more consistent with the policy objectives set by the Stortinget. A third party of the excess of Norwegian Typing AS is currently distributed for sport purposes. Today, the framework of the Norwegian Sports Federation is under 200 million. kr. The permissions will be distributed by the King after the suspension by the Ministry of Culture, rather than via the State budget. NIF is an umbrella organisation responsible for the distribution and management of the framework proposal according to the policy objectives. The Committee notes that today’s system provides only limited information on what the means of playing have to say in relation to the overriding objectives of sport policy. The Committee refers to a letter from the Ministry of Culture of 8 October 1998 stating that the Ministry adopted on 22 May 1998 new guidelines for the follow-up of sport to its use of gambling funds, based on the comments of the new Financial Regulations of the State, cf. The Ministry’s letter to the Ministry of Finance, with a copy to the Riksrevision, of 26 May 1998. The Committee is pleased that such guidelines have now been developed. A holistic planning and reporting system should, in the Committee's opinion, be based on key results of the activities of the NIF centrally, in specialised associations and in sports crates, and these data should be disseminated routinely from the Department of the Stortinget in an appropriate form. The Committee also pointed out that, in the case of possible changes to the framework arrangement, the Committee would, in the same way as the Riksrevision, believe that the ear-labelled funds will also be assessed in the context of this process. And, in the Committee's opinion, it is necessary that the rights are proportionate to the overriding objectives of sport policy, regardless of whether they are ear-tagged or come from the free part of the games. The Committee assumes that the political premises for a new framework scheme, if any, may be presented to the Stortinget in its own form. In later years, questions have been asked about the Norwegian Sports Federation. Is the organisation for sole rooting and for animals? Is the permissions too much for the big special associations and too little for the small sports teams? We know that most of the sports activities take place under the control of several thousand sports teams that receive little government funding directly. The goal is that children and young people can play all-round games and sports can be achieved. Today, we know that most small sports clubs — small football clubs, leisure clubs, symmetry clubs, book clubs, and so on. – is dependent on the cake wrapper and the collection from the local population, and a great deal of effort is being made by parents to ensure that these layers can exist at all. The aim of the national framework is that different target groups can be activated through sport. This is the case with children, young people, women, exercisers, mental and physical retardation, and in the Norwegian Sports Federation’s long-term plan from 1996 to 2000 this is overarching. Similarly, anti-doping, education, financial management, information technology and organisational development are key priorities and are a joy. Finally, I would like to make a small personal statement. I think that the sport has created a lot of joy and activity all over the country. But something that bothers me is that too many sad ends with sports already in the small school age, because the performance requirements for doing sports and being the best are far too big. In my opinion, sportsmen must never drown the sportsmen and ambitious parents make too much demands on the practitioners. Too many young people feel like losers in sports. There are also some startling reports that actually show that children are way down in the children's ball for poorly developed motor skills. This shows that many children and young people today are too passive and do not benefit from the offers offered by sport. It is also my personal opinion that when some sports industries today pay million to young people to participate, there is an unfortunate development, and it helps to create inequality in the different sports sectors. The different parts of their sports frameworks, I assume, allow Storting to discuss more closely at a different ratio.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-29.ana.ud2158e166	Actually, this should not be a matter for the Control Committee when looking at the annexes that follow the case, in particular the letter from the National Audit Office to the Control Committee of 14 October. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The guidelines were received only after the College had completed its work on Doc. No 3:12 [[1997-98]] In other words, the guidelines requested by the Riksrevision were then available – the actual content of the case. Not least the letter from the Ministry of Culture to the Ministry of Finance of 26 May 1998 explains what the Riksrevision needs, and this letter sets out the needs of the Riksrevision. However, once the case has been brought before me, I would like to state that the matter is important to those to whom it applies and that the committee is required to come back to the matter at a later stage. The goal must be clear: sport for everyone – a width of the activity. According to the law on gambling, 1/3 of the profits from Norsk Tipping AS are to be distributed for various sporting purposes. By Document No 3:12 shows that the Norwegian Sports Association is working on new award criteria for the allocation of framework grants to individual specialised associations focusing on objectives and on the basis of the level of activity. The Ministry agrees with the Riksrevision that the Norwegian Sports Association does not provide sufficient information on the desired objectives today. The Committee also points out that the current system provides only limited information on current sources of Norwegian gaming. Sport must, as far as possible, be concerned with the good use of allocated financial frameworks, in favour of sport for all.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-29.ana.ud2158e180	I agree with the statements made by the two previous speakers on the importance of both sport and the way in which it is financed, and that, of course, this should be done in the best possible form. When I ask for the floor now, it is really more to give a brief comment on the Riksrevision and the case than on the framework grant to the Norwegian Sports Federation. I agree with the representative Holten that nothing had really been done about this matter had never happened to the Stortinget, because through the committee's correspondence with the Government, it is made clear that the necessary changes to the guidelines for the follow-up to sport's use of gambling were adopted four days before the Riksrevision gave its position on the Stortinget. In other words, most of the critical comments of the National Audit Office were promoted and accepted by the Ministry and Sport, and the necessary measures had been taken and accepted before the Riksrevision completed its work, without being disclosed in Document No. 3:12 concerning the examination of the management of the framework grant. I am therefore pleased that the Ministry of Culture has adopted new guidelines on the follow-up to sport's use of toys, as described in the letter to the Committee on 8 October 1998. So in order to be in attendance with the National Audit Office, one might say that the very study and the work they were doing has resulted in this. But I think it is equally clear that the Riksrevision should consider whether it is necessary to inform the Storting in any matter they intervene in. However, there is no doubt that the National Audit Office’s intervention has contributed to the positive outcome that, after all, has come out of this, as one of the sports and ministry and we are satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-29.ana.ud2158e189	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 336]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-29.ana.ud2158e203	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 336 of this Official Journal.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-29.ana.ud2158e217	As the rapporteur for the subjects of the Ministry of Transport, it is necessary, for me, to draw attention to the Committee's comment, which reads as follows: ‘The Committee will come back to some cases under the Ministry of Transport concerning the processing of other documents from the National Audit Office.’ This is based on the need that appears to have been revealed by a number of transport projects where it appears that the estimates submitted to the Stortinget in individual cases have not been comprehensive either technically or economically. Exceedances have been and are significant in very large numbers of installations, even to such an extent that projects may not have been started if the facts had been known to the Storting at the time the decisions were taken. Such a procedure is highly critical and leads, among other things, to: other transport projects, such as: E6 and E18 through Eastfold, are on time, despite the heavy burden on these roads — not least in terms of accidents. If the design and tendering procedures do not improve in the transport sector, the Storting should assess whether there are other ways of obtaining a better basis in the future to ensure that we have the right decision-making basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-29.ana.ud2158e227	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 337]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-29.ana.ud2158e241	The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee notes that in 1997, the Civil Ombudsman had more cases to deal with than ever. Both the number of new complaints and new cases raised on their own initiative was higher than before. The Committee has also noted that the Ombudsman has carried out a comprehensive and systematic review of the practice of the Public Health Act in the Ministry of Justice. It was a major issue that we have debated before here in Stortinget, and it also shows what an important task the Civil Ombudsman is doing in the administration. The Committee would stress the importance of management prioritising the enquiries of the Civil Ombudsman and that they are followed up in practice. In order to facilitate the work, the Civil Ombudsman has put forward a new idea stating that the head of the office of the Civil Ombudsman should be authorised to close matters. There are administrative complaints, which do not currently clearly lead to anything, in relation to whether or not to pursue cases, whether or not to take a decision which would favour the complainant or whether or not to reveal procedural errors on the part of the administration. The Committee agrees that such an extension of authorisation to the heads of office would result in a much better and more effective handling of cases within the current instructions. It will also increase the efficiency of the institution at a time when the number of cases and cases are growing. As regards the question of whether the ombudsman system, which is enshrined in the Basic Law § 75, should also apply to Svalbard, the Committee has had a careful discussion of this. The Committee has found that, as Stortinget receives its own notification of Svalbard, it is natural that the Civil Ombudsman's work area be discussed in that context. The Committee has taken note of the views expressed by the Civil Ombudsman regarding Svalbard, but it will not conclude with anything in that it is an important matter of principle, which one can then discuss on a broad basis, also in conjunction with other things in the announced Svalbard Communication. The Committee also notes that during the 1997 reporting year, the Ombudsman had a number of meetings with public sector organisations from both home and abroad. The Committee welcomes this. The Ombudsman is involved in many important areas of society. We see that the complaints and cases the Ombudsman has dealt with cover a wide range of what is going on in our society. It is therefore important for the Ombudsman to have the means and resources necessary to have the best possible competence in the field of professionals in order to follow up matters. It is also important for the Ombudsman to review the practice of requests made in the light of changes in the new legislation that has come into force in many areas. We see that the Civil Ombudsman, on his own initiative, has taken decisions that have led the administration and the public to change their practices, which means that the legal certainty of the ordinary citizen is better than it has been in many of the principles that have been addressed during the reporting year. This year, on the part of the Committee, we have also stressed the importance of showing a small cross-section of the complexities of the case and the matters dealt with by the Ombudsman. It is included in the annual report. We see that many of the decisions taken by the Civil Ombudsman have resulted in people who have come up in difficult situations being given a helping hand by the Ombudsman. It is also important when the Civil Ombudsman has taken his decisions, that the government follows up. Unfortunately, we have seen examples of – which is also in the Annual Report – that too much time has passed, and that the public spends too much time on polemics with the Civil Ombudsman in matters that should actually have ended when the Civil Ombudsman has said his or her. All in all, a unanimous Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is pleased with the work the Civil Ombudsman has done. On behalf of a unanimous committee, I would like to congratulate the Civil Ombudsman on the important work being done on legal certainty in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-29.ana.ud2158e262	The rapporteur's last congratulations we can really just join. The annual report from the Civil Ombudsman is in many ways a very interesting reading, and the report on the activities of the Ombudsman for the administration shows, as the rapporteur also said in his speech, that the quality of the work is getting better and better, that there is a greater awareness in the administration of the many issues under investigation, and not least that the public law and principles surrounding it are more and more central. This is also a matter that Stortinget will come back to later. The systematic investigations also carried out by the Civil Ombudsman have undoubtedly enabled the institution to make better use of the possibilities available to it. I also think there is reason to commend the Ombudsman and his employees for their active, outward-looking activities, both domestically and abroad. In this respect, the Ombudsman is a very important contributor to a positive democratisation process in a wide range of countries seeking assistance there for similar administrative activities in their respective countries. One of the many important issues of principle raised in the Annual Report, as also mentioned by the case-rapporteur, is the civil ombudsman regime also applicable to Svalbard. Although, in my view, it is not in doubt that the work area also covers the northern part of the island, which is a significant part of the Kingdom of Norway, it may be appropriate for several reasons that the government also has clear views on this particular issue. Therefore, when, as the rapporteur said, a separate Svalbard notification has been announced, the government's own assessments should be taken into account, and then, on the basis of the investigation attached to the annual report by the Civil Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-29.ana.ud2158e275	The present annual report shows that the Ombudsman’s institution is still very important, and I would like to join in the commendation given to the Ombudsman’s institution by the two previous speakers and also the commendation given to the present annual report. For one who is not a member of the Committee, it may also be a point of commendation to the Committee for the configuration, which is well placed in the Ombudsman's activities. What this annual report — as previous annual reports — shows is the importance of continuous monitoring of the management’s activities and the importance of an audit based on individual cases. There is therefore reason to stress that the Ombudsman’s system is an important part of Storting’s control of the ministries and the other administration. At the same time, there is also a point in the fact that it may often be useful for the departments that the Ombudsman brings to the attention of the departments the field of expertise in which the decision-making authority is at local and regional level. It may also be interesting to note the distribution of complaints received by the Ombudsman and that a relatively large proportion of these complaints actually relate to matters dealt with in the departments, where one would like to have the quality of the proceedings to be particularly good. It's a relationship that there might be reason to notice. What I might particularly like to highlight as positive from the present notification is the Civil Ombudsman's general investigation, where more systematic access to and control of a particular area. We have previously dealt with such a matter in Stortinget this year through the specific communication that was given on the practice of public disclosure law in the Ministry of Justice. From the annual report, there is reason to highlight the investigation carried out by the Ombudsman into custody prisons, the use of police arrests, and in particular the length of detention. What's interesting there is that the Ombudsman revealed violations of the prison law and its understanding, and that this was a very long-standing and established practice, where the misinterpretation of the law was actually based on clear statements from the ministry on the understanding of the law. Just going into a group as weak as it is despite all the custodians, and perhaps not least weak in the first period of a custody prison, I think the Ombudsman deserves praise. Otherwise, as previously pointed out, the annual report is a good source of knowledge on the breadth of Norwegian management activities. But it also gives a good knowledge of the problems each citizen, the little man, can experience in his meeting with the public authorities. There are probably a little too many things that show that too many administrative bodies lose out on the individual citizen, the little man, the perspective too much, and that too little consideration is given to the problems that individual citizens may experience in their meeting with the administration. And it naturally leads to what is one of the most continuous repeaters in the Civil Ombudsman's annual reports from year to year, namely the processing time. There are too many administrative bodies that, over the long period of time involved, often reveal that there is a loss of respect for the individual citizen and that it is not always possible to see what kind of problems this actually creates for individuals. One gets to hope that the work done by the Ministry of Labour and Administration with so-called service declarations and the awareness of administrative bodies at their own time of proceedings will be able to produce results, if any. Otherwise, there may be reason to encourage the administrative bodies and, insofar as the size of perhaps even more systematically to identify areas where different public mandates create more problems for individuals than the gain that society has, and perhaps in particular, that the level of detail of some schemes often creates more problems than the details of the gain. Finally, as regards the question of the Ombudsman’s competence relating to Svalbard, it is useful that this issue is clarified. I agree, to the extent that it may be useful to have the Government's views on this issue. But I also want to remind the assembly that the Civil Ombudsman is the body of Storting, and that it is primarily the Storting that should make the clarification there.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-29.ana.ud2158e294	The cross-section of matters that the Civil Ombudsman has presented to the Stortinget, which the Committee has sought to reproduce in the vote, shows in many ways that the Civil Ombudsman as an institution in society is absolutely in place. One might think that in a democratic country like Norway, where one has an ambition to treat all people as equally as possible, where the administration should have the primary task of offering people what the Stortinge believes they should have, it would essentially overnegotiate investigation and control. The Ombudsman's annual report clearly shows that this is not the case. We see in some cases that detailed legislation can actually be used against the individual citizen rather than for the individual citizen, and that one is more concerned with the system than with the results to be produced for the citizens. So I think it's important that, through the Civil Ombudsman's Annual Report, we get to present such things, so that we here in the house are able to form a picture of how the administration works out in the system that it's supposed to serve. If we are to be certain that we have these treatments, this must be followed up in other policy areas — dealing with wholesale notifications, by the adoption of laws, and also by the preparation of regulations. If we in Stortinget do not have the ability to transfer the information provided through the Civil Ombudsman's reports to the policy areas, this has little purpose. I hope, therefore, that everyone can contribute to the fact that the information provided to the Storting through the Civil Ombudsman's Annual Report can help form the basis for the design of political signals, and in particular the legal and regulatory frameworks in the future. In conclusion, I would like to say that in principle I agree with the representative of Hove when he says that the Civil Ombudsman is the body of Storting, and that is the Stortinget that determines the Civil Ombudsman's office. But when it comes to the question of Svalbard, it is important that we make sure that we have a full overview of the scale of the problems before we give some signals about how we want this to be. Therefore, I think the Storting is wise to await the views of the Government, even though we already have views from the law department that in themselves can give a pretty good indication of the direction in which this bears. However, in principle, the Svalbard population should have the same offer and the same right to appeal against the administration and to be treated as citizens of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-29.ana.ud2158e309	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 337]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-29.ana.ud2158e317	We're ready for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-29.ana.ud2158e435	There is no record.
