ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e47	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Foreign Minister Knut Vollebæk State Council Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad State Council Day Jostein Fjærvoll State Council Hilde Frafjord Johnson The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. Some representatives have signed up in advance with a request to ask questions. Representatives who, in addition to them, are interested in asking questions are asked to rise. - Thank you. Then we start with the first main question, from the representative Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e69	I have a question for the Minister of Defence. Doubts have arisen regarding the continued Norwegian military presence in Lebanon after we now withdraw the Norwegian battalion in UNIFIL. My specific question to the Minister of Defence is therefore: is there a Norwegian offer to the United Nations that Norway should be able to provide up to 200 staff for continued service in the UNIFIL force in Lebanon?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e74	The answer could actually have been quite short, and be yes, but let me draw a slightly longer background for such a short answer. The UN Security Council has recently formally decided that India should assume the responsibilities of NORBAT in UNIFIL and its central functions. Norway has not received a request for the use of the force of 200 people, which we offered to the UN in connection with the Government's decision in June to terminate our battalion exposure in UNIFIL. This is probably related to the United Nations' wish to implement a principle of participation in key functions linked to participation in battalion functions. However, our offer to the United Nations is pending until the Government in consultation with the United Kingdom considers it appropriate to withdraw this offer. The transfer of responsibility from NORBATT to INDIBATT will take place on 28 November and the Norwegian withdrawal will be completed at the beginning of December. A handful of Norwegian personnel will remain in UNIFIL to support the Indians in the early phase and to terminate the administrative parts of our engagement, so that the answer is again: Yes, our offer of a 200 staff is at power.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e83	I thank you for your answer. It must then be understood that this is why there is currently no recruitment of such personnel. If it should have been done, it is obvious that someone is not doing their job. In the event of recruitment, I have to ask: When will these individuals – because they are individuals, they are not about a single unit – be recruited and ready for action, how is it planned to be funded, and what is the specific task of the force?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e88	With regard to the Lebanon exposure, I have just explained it. There's no recruitment going on for exactly this, because the United Nations has not addressed any request to us to participate. On the other hand, we intend to use some of the personnel we have in Lebanon, in Macedonia. Their six-month commitment will be extended in a new six-month commitment to those recommended for what we call ‘recap’. We have just also proposed for the Storting to decide to extend the involvement of staff in Macedonia from 40 to 160, with a new and extended mandate. And in this area, there is also proposed funding, which lies in this house, for the first half of 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e93	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e96	I'll have to ask the Foreign Minister a question. At a meeting with the EU in July, the Government signed the so-called veterinary agreement, which means that Norway will re-check the food imported from the EU. I have seen some attempts to make it look as if the Government has not decided on this matter, but there must be errors. The government signed an agreement with the EU with a view to agreeing with the Storting, not with a view to agreeing with itself. I therefore assume that there is no doubt that the Government still thinks it meant this summer when this agreement was signed, and that we can therefore confirm that the Government is a credible negotiating party for international organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e103	Yes, it can be confirmed that Norway and also this government are a credible negotiator, and it is true that we participated in a decision of the EEA Committee on 17 or 18 July of this year, subject to the consent of the Storting. Now the very matter of handling in the government, it's a package, which it won't be natural to go into in detail. As I have informed Stortinget about earlier, the government tried to renegotiate this agreement last autumn. That was not possible, and we also said the Stortinget that we would come back with an overall arrangement that also contained national measures, which made us think this could be justified.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e109	I am happy to confirm that the Government stands firm on what it has informed the Government, that there can be no doubt in this context, and that the attempts made outside the Government to make it appear that the Government does not insist on what is agreed with the EU are wrong. So I also see the question that solved.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e114	Does the Council of State wish to respond?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e117	As the question is resolved, I assume that there is no reason to answer. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e122	That's also what the president assumed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e125	Then I agree with the President.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e130	Dag Terje Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e133	The Minister of Foreign Affairs confirmed that the Government stands by the agreement negotiated, but some of the government parties have given the impression that the agreement now mentioned would harm public health — at least pose a risk to public health. Although I understand that the Minister for Foreign Affairs cannot now address the compensatory measures in concrete terms, such measures were already suggested by the previous government. I think the two governments are in line. I must be allowed to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he considers that the agreement that exists, with the compensatory proposals, that is, on control measures in Norway, fully ensures food safety, or whether it is such that this government will endanger food safety and thus people's health.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e138	All three government parties opposed the agreement when it was discussed in Stortinget. The case was pending in January 1997. At that time, a majority in the United Kingdom asked the Ministry of Agriculture to continue working on an extension of the EEA Agreement and to return to Stortinget. But the government thought, in line with the three government parties, that the agreement was not good enough, and still doesn't seem so, and that's why we tried to renegotiate it. But with the national measures we want to put forward, the Government will of course be able to defend the overall approach that will come back to the Stortinge. A government does not come to the Stortinget with anything it cannot defend. The agreement as such we tried to renegotiate. We did not have it renegotiated, and as I have informed Stortinget about, we would therefore compensate for this with national measures. Whether the previous government would have had equal measures remains to be seen. The government will come up with very good measures.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e143	Is it possible to clarify a manifest misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e148	That's no reason.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e151	That's too bad. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e157	It must then continue to rest. Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e162	My question is also addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and it concerns our relationship with Europe – especially in the economic field. There is now a violent activity in the European Union that in many ways changes the economic architecture of Europe. This is what Norway has chosen to do outside. It is respected by everyone, both by those who were of a yes-perception and those who were of a no-perception in Norway. Therefore, a high level of foreign policy activity from Norway is required both to ensure preparedness and to secure contact networks and to influence such a process in the direction of Norwegian national interests. My question, therefore, is not – in order to clarify it – about monetary policy; the regime has been established by a broad majority in the United Kingdom. Nor is it what was stated in the revised national budget in spring, with which the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be aware, about the effects on Norway of economic and monetary union. It is a purely technical review, it contains no policy in this area. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is therefore: What assessments does he have of Norway's ability to achieve political agreements in the economic and monetary sphere that better ensure stability in Norwegian economic policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e167	I think it is important to establish that our relationship with the EU is defective, which the questioner has to say. We have a broad contact network within the EU, which covers the economic issues through our EEA agreements, but also through the political contacts we have in Europe. With regard to the more monetary issues, it is a responsibility of the Minister of Finance in the Government. But it is clear that this is also addressed in the policy areas, and that is why this is an issue that the Government is actively working on. I think it's wrong for the questioner to say that what's in the revised national budget is just a technical description. That's not right. There is a presentation of the views of the Government, and of the situation, and makes it clear that this is a matter that the Government follows closely. As the questioner will be aware, all Nordic ministers of state and finance will meet on Sunday to discuss economic and monetary issues with the EU. The Prime Minister has said that he would like to inform Stortinget after that, and I think it is natural that this is being followed up that way.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e176	I note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not have any assessments of what he himself referred to as the political area. I recognise that monetary issues are monetary issues and normally fall within the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. But if political agreements are to be reached here, I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that that is the political area. I also note that the government follows this closely, but I guess I don't see that exactly as any typical policy, it's more of a technical readiness. I ask again: what is the Foreign Minister's assessment of the possibilities we have for achieving, through political contacts and in the political field, something that ensures greater stability for us economically and politically?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e187	It is not right that the questioner says, or at least as I feel that he suggests, that we lack political contacts. We have ongoing political contacts that mean a lot to Norway. But it's clear that if we look at the monetary issues and what we've noticed lately with the pressure on the crown, it's about something far more and something more extensive than just political contacts. We do not discuss those issues just through political contacts. I think it is wrong to say that it is not an active attitude when the Nordic government and finance ministers are going to discuss this already on Sunday and the Prime Minister has offered to come back to the Stortinget immediately after that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e192	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e195	In the last few days, in particular, two parties in the UK, the Right and the Labour Party have wanted to launch a new debate on EU membership, now linked for the first time to the euro. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is this: if we were to think of closer economic cooperation between the Norwegian krona and the euro, i.e. between the Norwegian central bank and the EU's new central bank from 1 January, it would be difficult to imagine that no such cooperation would also involve political concessions. It is difficult to imagine that this would be a purely economic situation in which the EU would face the Norwegian krona, as some in the Norwegian debate later on to imagine. My question is: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that a closer Norwegian connection to the euro is not a technical question but a political question, and does the Minister for Foreign Affairs also agree that if you want a closer link, Norway is not willing to grant concessions in such talks?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e200	I think it is wrong for me that this again concerns monetary issues – and not least because of the consequences we know of statements in this Chamber have had for the position of the Norwegian krona – to address speculations, whether political or economic, in relation to the position of the Norwegian krona and its connection to the euro. I would like to repeat what I have said in the past: the Nordic Ministers of State and Finance will be discussing this issue the next Sunday, and the Prime Minister has said he is willing to explain this to the Stortingen afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e205	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e208	I have a question for the Minister of Defence: we are now well-known for significant changes on the ownership side of the Norwegian defence industry. According to the Minister of Industry, a joint owned Nordic Ammunition producer — Nammo AS — will have a foreign majority share. In this company, the defence division at Raufoss will be included, but Raufoss will have only 45 pst. As you know, there is also an intentional agreement on the sale of the State's shares, which is now a majority known in Norsk Jetmotor to Volvo Aero Corporation. The Minister of Industry has earlier highlighted in a Question Time that Raufoss fusion is in line with the national strategy for the Norwegian defence industry, as it is described, among other things. in St. Prp. No 59 for 1997-98. Its name is, among other things,\t\t You can change the ‘Member States are heavily involved in central parts of the Norwegian defence industry. This position on the owner’s side could be used — given that it persists — to influence cooperative constellations and strategic choices.’ It is quite clear that the assumption of sale has not been discussed in Stortinget. [[President clubs]] What strategic assessments have the Minister of Defence and the Government considered here, and why has the matter not been submitted to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e220	The president reminds me of the speaking time limit.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e224	As it will be known, there are at least three state councils who are concerned by the very question the Bjørn Tore Godal now traveled. It will be the Foreign Minister who will be responsible for the export technical part and the export assessment of defence equipment, the Minister of Industry, who will be responsible for the state council so far, and it will be the Minister of Defence who will have some views – to the greatest extent – on the actual production and availability of weapons. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade has explained the company aspects of the establishment of a joint company – Nammo by three Nordic ammunition producers. On export control issues, I can confirm that national laws and regulations will continue to apply to production units and exports from these in the three countries. The company structure is intended to lead to efficiency improvements. As a result, it may be appropriate to supply components from sister holdings in other Nordic countries to final products in one of the countries. On a general basis, I would also like to point out that there has been a trend towards integrating multinational cooperation in the development and production of defence equipment. The export control guidelines have rules for partial deliveries. I refer there to St.meld. No 43 for 1997-98. From the Minister of Defence's assessment, there is no evidence at present that the Nammo concentration is detrimental to the Norwegian defence industry and the need for defence for the availability of equipment and materials.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e235	I have to repeat that it has been a central part of our strategy that one should use the state's ownership position to influence strategic choices. And when you looked at the state's interests in that way, you obviously deprive yourself of the opportunity to do so. You can, for example: it can be expected that listed companies in Finland and Sweden will form part of other and wider alliances that will completely deprive the Norwegian national authorities of the instrument contained in the Norwegian instrument. Then again the question is: Has the government considered it on a broader basis, and why is the matter not submitted to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e240	To the first part of the question: this will be one of the final assessments made in the Government when this is a matter for the Government as a college and not just a matter of dealing with the Minister of Industry's treatment of the restructuring itself linked to Raufoss. As regards the second part of the question, this will be considered on an ongoing basis. I believe that the Minister with formal responsibility for the proceedings will explain his position on the question of treatment to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e247	Jan Johnsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e250	It's a question to the Minister of Defence. Tenders of six frigates are now to be submitted, and that is said at a fixed price....
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e255	The President gave Mr. Johnsen's word for a follow-up question, and as far as the president can see, the question now goes in a completely different direction, unless you go into what was the main issue, the industrial alliance.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e258	Yes, I understand that it has absolutely something to do with industry to do what I'm going to ask.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e263	The President will suggest that if the question does not address the main issue, the representative must dissuade the follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e266	Can I ask the question, and then can the minister possibly reject it?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e271	Then I assume that we can do it this way: Mr. Johnsen asks the question, and then the minimum person will decide if he finds a basis for answering.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e274	Thank you. There is now a notice from the Ministry of Defence that tenders must be submitted with a fixed price of six frigates. It's a little difficult for, for example. the Norwegian industry to deal with. Will the Minister of Defence ensure that a fixed price is not fixed until detailed specifications have been clarified for these frigates?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e282	It went the way the president guessed. Does the Minister for Defence want the floor?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e285	At least the Minister of Defence will try to answer the question. It is quite right that we are in a phase in which we are going to get a fixed price offer from the three suppliers who are now on the frigate project after shortlisting, cutting down, this summer. Here we have done so that two foreign suppliers are left, and the Norwegian group is included in the whole process until today. This group will continue to be present until the tender deadline expires around 1 March next year. As far as the issue of fixed prices and the overall concept is concerned, the Council of State believes that the resources of the defence budget, some of which are scarce resources, must be used to the maximum extent for the material we are going to buy, while at the same time having the advantages for Norwegian industry in mind. It would be so that even if it was a foreign company that got the main contract, it would be a claim of 100 pst. Repurchase from the Norwegian industry, and Norwegian jobs will also be benefited.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e294	After this round, the President considers it necessary to stress that in the case of follow-up questions, they shall be linked in the same direction as the main question. The President hopes for better cooperation than the President believes was the result of this round. Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e299	Here it is the cooperation in the Government that will be put to the test, because my question falls under both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Assistance. The most important thing for me is a wise answer, not which one answers. The question is about the situation in Congo, which has been up here in the past. The lack of international attention and the marginalisation of Africa is now so repulsive that it limits itself to pure racism. There is hardly a word about the Congo in the Norwegian press. If the Congo conflict had taken place in Asia or Europe, it would have been a first-page drug every day. This is a conflict that can destabilise the whole of Central Africa, and which, in the long run, can render Norwegian aid to ten countries in the area meaningless. The question is: will the Government now put pressure on the core country that needs to be pressed to stop the foreign interference in Congo, i.e. Zimbabwe, where the president is waging war hundreds of miles from his territory and from what may seem like sloppy, economic self-interest? My question is further: will the Government now make it clear to Zimbabwe that there will be no further negotiations on Norwegian aid until the Zimbabwean troops have been withdrawn from the Congo?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e308	The Minister for Development and Human Rights would like to answer the question from the representative of Solheim. I share Mr Solheim's concern about the situation in Congo, and I also share his criticism of a lack of attention about this conflict both in Norwegian media and in Norwegian public and European public. There is no doubt that there is a need for a significantly greater international exposure to this effect. That is also why the Minister of Foreign Affairs recently, this week, has sent a letter to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and to the Secretary-General of the OAU, Salim Salim, to ask the UN Secretary-General, in particular, to take more active action in relation to the conflict. We see it now so that there are very few internally in the region who will handle the piece of art that is balancing this, so that you can get a lasting solution. It is important that strong forces come from the outside, such as: by the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the OAU. With regard to the assessments of the representative of Solheim, that it is only Zimbabwe that is a major player and cause, I and the Government believe that the picture is considerably more complex than that. What we have done, and what we are now doing, is to make démarche towards every country involved in the conflict, and to appeal to peace and to find a political and diplomatic solution. It happens this week. We are putting pressure on everyone from Norway, but we are also putting considerable pressure on Zimbabwe on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e317	Zimbabwe has a very special responsibility because they are warring more than hundreds of miles from their own territory, and according to what may seem to be completely sloppy self-interests. Angola has now been reported to consider withdrawing its forces from the Congo. In that case, it will be a very positive development. However, I would like to reiterate the question of whether there should be no special pressure on Zimbabwe and make it clear to the authorities of Zimbabwe that Norway cannot use large amounts of aid in Zimbabwe in the years to come as long as the President of Zimbabwe believes it is right not only to have forces in the Congo, but even to step up the forces of Zimbabwe in an area where Zimbabwe has no strategic, military or security interests at all. I would also like to ask whether the reports from the United Nations system on Tutsi massacres in the Congo and the new Constitution, which is now being consulted in the Congo, which will mean that people who have lived in the Congo for more than 100 years will no longer be considered Congolese citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e324	On the question of assistance, I can inform the representative of Solheim that negotiations on future assistance with Zimbabwe were scheduled to take place. What we are doing now is to reduce this to just a country review, where the emphasis will also be on the appeal to Zimbabwe to find a peaceful and diplomatic solution to the conflict in the Congo, so that we also follow up on aid. With regard to the concrete actions, we are in close cooperation and consult with donor countries in order to assess whether this will now have consequences for Norwegian assistance. Here we have not found reason to draw any bastant conclusions yet, but so it is already in relation to the forthcoming meeting that changes are being made to the programme in relation to Zimbabwe. So to the issues of massacres and human rights violations in Congo. These are, of course, questions we will address in the appropriate forums.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e331	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e334	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. We have recently been told that Rena Karton factory has gone bankrupt with the consequences it has for those who lose the job and for the entire community of Rena. Some, including the rapporteur at Rena, Åse Grønlien Østmoe from the Central Party, have explained the bankruptcy of the EEA Agreement. If the Council of State agrees with its party trap, can the Council of State point to what rules of the EEA Agreement have now been changed as the Government is not able to enter and save the jobs of Rena today, while former workers' party governments have helped to save jobs without conflicting with EEA legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e341	This is a formal matter under the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but I will try to explain what caused ESA not to be able to accept the refinancing package that was there. ESA considered SND's guarantee to the Saving Bank Hedmark to be what they called hidden state subsidies, and therefore the answer from ESA, after some rounds between ESA and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, was that they would prefer another way of resolving the matter. The problem arose, as the representative Brustad has probably brought with him, by the fact that ESA needed three-four weeks to deal with this matter, and the board of directors found that it was too long to wait to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e346	The Council of State did not answer what was my main question, namely whether the Council of State agreed with Åse Grønlien Østmoe that it was the EEA Agreement that caused Rena Karton to go bankrupt. And it might also be interesting to find out if it's correct, as we've been informed by Knut Almestad, that the Norwegian authorities did not respond to ESA's invitation to dialogue on the refinancing attempt in Rena Karton.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e352	On the last question, whether what Almestad has said is correct, I can tell you that the Minister of Industry has already gone out and told me that it was actually not correct. There was ongoing contact several times a day over several days between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and ESA. This has gone out in a press release, I think, a few days ago, so here there must be some misunderstandings. But I just have to point out what the Minister of Industry has told me about it. As regards the issue of whether it was the EEA Agreement that prevented the solution for Rena Karton, that is actually the situation, because there are rules in the EEA Agreement to be respected by ESA. If we had had a different relationship with the EU — the old link — the decision could have been taken by Norwegian authorities without having to be approved by ESA.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e359	Eirin Fallet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e362	First of all, of course, our concern is for the many who lose their jobs. The county councils also care for the districts, and it is clear that this is a very sad situation for the Rena community. I understand that this is under the Minister of Industry, but I expect members of the Government to talk together, and in this situation they should definitely have spoken together, because it is strange when the Minister of Industry says that ESA does not rule out that the State and the SND could still play a role in getting a solution. I don't think we got a good enough answer from the Council of State to Sylvia Brustad's question. Is there any change in the legislation that makes this situation different now than when the Labour Party government actually had to go badly into saving Rena?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e367	I believe that I have clarified why ESA could not approve the funding package negotiated between the board of Rena Karton and SND. It was, as I said, because it was perceived to be some sort of hidden subsidisation that SND went in and offered guarantees for the Saving Bank Hedmark, and it was a breach of the agreement according to ESA's assessment. And that's what ESA said, and that's what we also had negotiations between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and ESA, as far as I understand. And everyone knows that when the board of Rena Karton had the matter to assess, they found that waiting maybe three-four weeks to get this settled would take too long – so they wanted bankruptcy. What we hope now is that we will start a new funding, and there we have given a clear message from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the SND that we are, of course, preparing what is possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e372	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e375	At the previous refinancing of Rena Kartonfabrik, SND was also inside the picture. If it is the case that the legislation in the meantime has not changed, does it mean that the Government has changed its policy in relation to the SND, so that they have not dealt with the matter the same way as they did the last time – and thus were able to handle the legislation so that they could go in and give support that was in line with what ESA could approve, and thus could have saved the company from bankruptcy?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e380	The rules haven't changed, and that's the way SND went in and financed the scheme now, against which ESA has had counterconceptions. But again, this is formally under the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and I can't go into detail about what has happened in this process, because I'm not familiar with it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e387	Jan Petersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e390	I have listened with great interest to the very long answers from the Minister of State. I can basically only perceive them in one way, namely, that it is not right that the EEA Agreement would stand in the way of a solution here. And what the Council of State has actually done is to say that Rena's rapporteur on this point is wrong – and I am very pleased that this answer has been given in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e395	I must then be allowed to reply that without the EEA Agreement, the approval would have been to the Norwegian authorities. The final approval of such an agreement is now also in the organs of ESA if they consider that the rules of the EEA Agreement are not being complied with. And that's what's happened in this case. But let me make it clear again that it was the board of Rena Karton who chose to bankrupt the company because they couldn't wait as long as the further process of ESA would take.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e400	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e404	Unfortunately, I have to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question. It's been 53 years since World War II ended, but it's not been said that it's over for many of those who were participants there. We see that honorary women and men who have been in important battles and in battle for the nation have not yet been settled. I am thinking especially of prisoners of war and people who have participated in World War II and who have been in Japanese captivity. We have been working on this matter for a long, long time, we have not yet been given a clarification, and I would like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs of a valuation to take up this matter in order to settle these honorary women and men, as they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e411	Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs wish to reply?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e414	Yes, in part – if it is possible to respond partially.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e419	We'll then hear what it's going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e422	I think this is related to a written question that I have received from the representative Kleppe. That is why I want to answer. Therefore, let me first just regret that the representative Kleppe has not received an answer before. I thought he had received an answer now, because I have at least signed an answer, and therefore the question from the representative Kleppe should have been unnecessary. But what Kleppe's representative asked for was especially a prisoner of war who's been in Japanese captivity. What happened – if I remember my answer correctly – was that there was a state settlement between Japan and the Allies, where the individual damage was not addressed. Obviously, this can be a problem, and it's clear that we can see that this can be cases where individuals may have suffered from an overload. However, as far as I have gained experience, it is a matter which must then be dealt with by the social authorities. Because these cases will be about social benefits, which is the responsibility of the Social Minister, I have also informed the Social Minister about the representative Kleppe questions to me.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e429	Yes, as the Foreign Minister is probably aware, I am a very patient gentleman. But when I write a letter and it goes over two months before I get an answer, I think it's time – in respect of the many hundreds in this country that I've raised this question – to ask the Foreign Minister this question, so that everyone gets the opportunity to follow in what this government, which says it's very busy doing, does. The answer that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has allegedly sent me, but which I have not yet received and which I attend with great interest, does not deprive the Foreign Minister and the Government of the responsibility I believe they have to provide a proper compensation for the damage suffered to these persons in line with everyone else. If agreements had been signed internationally that would have made Norway waive that responsibility, my question is: Will the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government provide an economic compensation – without going to the Minister of Social Affairs and making these honorary women and men a social disaster?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e436	Let me first again apologize, and confirm that the representative Kleppe is patient. I may find it sad that he judges the entire government because of my insidiousness. I'm asking that he doesn't. When it comes to compensation for war damage, it's a big and complicated question. I have already addressed this with the Minister of Social Affairs, and I hope that the representative, Mr Kleppe, can accept this as a satisfactory answer at the moment that I will discuss this with the Minister of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e443	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e446	Since we have the Minister of Human Rights present, I would like to ask a question about the situation of the Tamils in Norway. Although the ongoing broadcast of Tamils belongs to the Ministry of Justice, this is a matter in which very many representatives from the centre parties were very committed when they were in opposition last year. More and more Tamils in Norway have recently been arrested by the police to return to Sri Lanka. So I would like to ask, what has changed in Sri Lanka that makes the human rights situation better now than it was when the centre parties got involved in the case last year – that time in opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e453	I would first like to stress that this is primarily the responsibility of the Minister of Justice, but I will still answer that part of the question that I see as my responsibility. Of course, I share the representative's concern for the individuals concerned, which is what this is all about. This is precisely why the Government has said that each case should be considered separately and subject to individual assessment. It is also clear that no one who is likely to be persecuted will be sent back to Sri Lanka. So it is not the case that someone should be sent back to the persecution. It's not going to happen. This means that each case is to be considered separately. However, there is no basis for, based on the situation in Sri Lanka as it is now, a general amnesty or a general residence permit for all Tamils in Norway. According to the sources of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the situation has improved somewhat, even since the debate we have had in the United Kingdom in the past. But I underline again: No one who can be persecuted will be sent back. You have to make an individual assessment and make sure it doesn't. Furthermore, I would like to refer these kinds of questions relating to individual cases and decisions taken on the basis of applications for asylum and residence permits in Norway to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e462	I would like to thank you for your answer. We just have to take the insurance into account. However, I would also like to ask whether there is a plan from Norway for a larger return than what is now happening. Norway has established a joint consulate with Denmark in Colombo, and Denmark has recently concluded a return agreement for Tamils. On that basis, I would like to ask the Minister for Human Rights whether the Norwegian presence has been established with a view to an agreement to return in larger quantities. And if that is the case, in what way will the Government follow up the Tamils sent back, so that we are sure that human rights are respected?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e468	I would like to inform the representative that we have had an embassy in Colombo and in Sri Lanka for many years. There is information from the Embassy, which has a very good contact network in Sri Lanka, which is the basis for the assessments made in the Government. Of course, the embassy also has a responsibility, not only to assess the concrete and ongoing situation in the country, but also in relation to individuals who had to be sent back. Let me stress that there are no plans from the Government regarding any collective or extensive return of Tamils. I thought I had underlined in my answer to the previous question that no one should be sent back if you are likely to be subjected to persecution, arrests, prisons – assaults on a scale that involves violations of human rights in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e473	Well, let's get on with the main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e476	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: Ever since the nobility was abolished in this country, the defence has been a forum for full equal treatment of all Norwegian citizens irrespective of social background, rank and status, ethnic background, etc. Anyone who has had contact with the Defense knows that this complete non-discrimination that we have had here has been of the greatest value to the social austerity in Norwegian society. Now, according to what we read in the papers, the government will break this tradition, as they will introduce quotas on an ethnic basis to the Department of Defense. Does the Minister of Defense not see that breaking this tradition is very unfortunate? Does he not see it as a disadvantage to be ethnically Norwegian when entering the Defence School, only to increase the ethnic contradictions of the Norwegian community?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e483	Equal treatment is the very starting point and the keyword in this context. The government emphasises that immigrants have the same obligations as everyone else, and that they therefore need to be guaranteed equal opportunities to participate in society and use their resources. Active recruitment of qualified staff with a migrant background to all levels in the state sector is a natural consequence of – here I have to make the right reference – objectives and principles established in St.meld. No 17 for 1996-97 on immigration and multicultural Norway, which received broad support in the United Kingdom. That's what we've built on. That is why I have taken the initiative of an action plan to put in place different measures to facilitate the increased recruitment of people with a migrant background to the defence. An important measure in the action plan sets percentage targets for admission of persons with a migrant background to Defence Schools, for recruitment to civil and apprenticeship positions. By 2001, the proportion of persons with a migrant background shall be 4 pst. of the total number of pupils admitted to basic training in command and training conferring the right to an occupation. This objective – and here I must stress the concept – is to be achieved by using moderate allowances. In this context, moderate allowances mean that persons with a migrant background are to be preferred under almost equal conditions. This does not mean, however, that the immigrant concerned is not required to comply with the formal requirements of admission to this training. I could go through this plan detail for detail. I don't have time for that, but equal treatment and equality are the very starting point for this very action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e492	I just want to point out that there is a difference between active recruitment and quota. The reflection of quota is discrimination, and that is what we do not want in the Norwegian defence. My supplementary question is that we also see in the newspapers that one now will ease the requirements for security clearance when it concerns people with a migrant background. Does the Council of State think this is particularly defensive at a time when terrorist actions against Norwegian targets are also a constant threat?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e499	The question is two-part, and I will try to answer two-part: For the addition to civil positions of persons with a migrant background, the objective is 5 pst. of new additions in the same period as we have now mentioned. However, moderate allowances shall not be used when recruiting to these posts. For the admission of apprentices, the proportion of persons with a migrant background shall be 2 pst. of the total number of apprentices in the Defence. The goal may seem ambitious, but in my view it is important that we have something to reach for. As far as safety clearance is concerned, we should not lighten the requirements, but we have said that we should make provision so that we do not create unnecessary obstacles to the addition of people with a migrant background. And then you can define what you mean by that: that means you have to use the scale that we use in security clearance, but you have to keep your eyes open so that you don't create unnecessary obstacles to move on.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e508	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e511	Municipality-Norway is now in a process where the financial framework for next year's operations is made visible. It turns out that many municipalities face major problems in maintaining basic welfare services for their inhabitants. This is most clearly expressed in relatively small municipalities where local politicians threaten to lay down their posts or to budget for operating deficits. Rapporteurs all over the country claim that the economy of municipalities is now so weak that mass redundancies of employees are the only way out. This will result in a number of service offers that need to be phased out or greatly reduced. When we know that the majority of municipal expenditure is related to health, the elderly, care and education, restrictions will therefore initially affect children and the elderly. Since the submission of the State budget, the government has had district policy as one of its strongest flags. If it is the case that regional policy is a priority in an otherwise tight budget, is it not a paradox that it is precisely from rapporteurs and local politicians that the strongest reactions to the government's draft budget come? The question is addressed to the District and Regional Councils.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e520	I will try to answer what I understood was the question. I remember that when we had the municipal economic proposition for treatment in our company, the government got a majority for this framework for the municipal sector next year thanks to the support of the Workers' Party. It's been followed up in the state budget for next year. The Committee's request has also been followed up, namely that part of the expected tax increase should be included in the framework. Then we have chosen to give priority to the regional effort in next year's government budget. Despite the fact that we had to put forward a very tight state budget to reduce interest rates and strengthen confidence in the Norwegian economy, we have managed to find room to increase investment in districts by 600 million. kr. It's a pretty big lift, and part of that means, almost 200 million. is located in different departments to direct efforts towards a wide range of instruments. And with regard to the reactions of Kommune-Norge and the rapporteurs in the districts, I assume that everyone is aware that what happened after the Stortinget adopted the framework for the municipal sector next year was that wage negotiations were carried out, the pension payments to Kommunal Landspensionskasse – KLP – increased quite a lot, as well as the municipalities have also noticed the increase in interest rates. But the main objective of the government budget is to strengthen confidence in the Norwegian economy and reduce interest rates. It will also serve the municipal sector in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e527	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e530	The Council of State did not address the fact that this structure means that the school and health sectors in the municipalities must cut and that the supply of the population is getting worse. Then I would like to ask: is the Council of State satisfied with the administration of a policy in these areas that is in conflict with the Waksenåsen Declaration? And does the Council of State see any advantage for the Government, for the municipal sector or for district policy, by continuing budgetary cooperation with the Right and the Advance Party, which in all these areas is pursuing a policy that is contrary to the will of the central government – and those parties – expressed through the Waksenåsen Declaration?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e536	As I said, we saw that we had to put forward a government budget with a tightening effect of 1 pst. Cutting 9 billion kroner doesn't happen without pain – it's also a shock of pain all over the place. But despite that, we have managed to ensure that we get a growth in transfers from the state to the municipalities next year of NOK 2.6 billion. That is what is in the Government's proposal. If I were to be satisfied with one or the other compromise solution here in Stortinget, I wouldn't have said anything about today. I just want to say that the budgetary process in Stortinget is the responsibility of the large-scale groups.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e543	Sign Eye - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e546	It's a municipal uprising all over the country. The local economy has never been worse, says Centerparti-Rapporteur Jørgen Tömrös in Overhalla Municipality – he has been rapporteur for 16 years and is in his fifth period. This is what one politician after another stands out, from the Right-Rapporteur in Kristiansand to the County rapporteur, from the Central Party, in Troms. They have to cut their budgets by up to 10 pst., and it's about cutting a lot of jobs. Does the Council of State think that it is the expectations that were created before and after the central parties came into government, which means that we have had a municipal uprising? Or does the Council of State agree that this is the worst budget that Municipality-Norway has received in decades?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e553	It is true that there are many municipalities that are going to get tough in 1999, even with the scheme proposed by the Government, but it is not that all municipalities are having problems. I have noticed with some interest that the county rapporteur in Sogn and Fjordane, who comes from the Workers' Party, has said that he was surprised at how good this budget was, given the economic situation in Norway. So the picture is somewhat more nuanced. But I think I have to make reference to the fact that all the municipalities that now send letters to our department point out that the reason they now come out so difficult is three relationships – and that is left in almost every letter we get from the municipalities: wage-fixed, increased pension payments and increased interest rates. It is clear that in such a situation many municipalities will come out difficult, and I have never hidden the fact that I believe that this is something that we in the government and big business must also take inwards.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e558	The oral Question Time is now over, and we're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e563	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 4, from the representative Eirin Fallet to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Transport who directs him. Question 6, from the representative Sylvia Brustad to the Minister of Labour and Administration, is postponed until the next Question Time, as the Council of State has a disease incident. Question 9, from the representative Jan Johnsen to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Church, Education and Research, who has been away. Question 10, from the representative Rolf Rikvam to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 13, from the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 14, from Hallgeir H. Langeland to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs who will direct him. At the request of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, this question is moved and answered in response to question 3, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e585	I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The newspaper Fiskeren on 23 October 1998 states that inspectors in the Directorate for Fisheries operate with secret instructions when controlling fishing vessels. The reform of inspectors on board fishing vessels may exacerbate an ever-increasing conflict between industry and management. Secret instructions must then be contrary to the Government's announced notice of greater transparency in administration. What will the Council of State do to dampen the growing conflict, and can greater transparency be a means?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e594	Let me first point out that the background to the introduction of the limited inspection system for purse seine fishing was that last year it was revealed that there had been extensive dumping of fish. The purpose of the system of inspectors is, inter alia, to: to monitor developments in the fishing and to ensure that the fishing is carried out in line with the legislation, including the control of fishing logbooks and landings of catches. In addition, the inspectors shall take samples from the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea. Like many other official control bodies, the Directorate-General for Fisheries Control has guidance describing the tasks of the inspectors and how they should behave in individual control situations. The current guidance for the control of fishing is exempted from disclosure under Section 6.2(c) of the Public disclosure Act. The guidance is based on the applicable regulations. Fisheries authorities consider it essential to have such guidance to ensure that the operators controlled by the Control Office are equally controlled, irrespective of the inspectors carrying out the work and regardless of the regions in which the control is carried out. This contributes to ensuring equal treatment of nutritionists. By making known the content of the guidance, situations could easily arise in which the controlled person speculates in limiting his activity in business compared to the legislation in force. This could therefore result in business operators adapting their activities and thus circumventing official control or regulatory measures. I cannot see that it may cause any problems for fishermen that the working instructions for inspectors are not known. I am therefore of the opinion that it is still necessary to exclude the control instructions from the public. I can't see that this is contrary to the Government's objective of greater transparency in administration. With regard to this year's limited system of inspectors on purse seine vessels as fishing mackerel, I can state that the experience gained from all parts of this scheme will be evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e614	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We are talking here about Norway's largest export industry, after oil. It's an industry governed by a couple of laws. The rest are law of attorney, kgl. resolutions. One could call it decrees, regulations based on the needs of the moment. It's been like that, and that's the industry. Exercise of the regulations and exercise of these kgl. These resolutions are, of course, at the discretion of the administration. There is a lack of detailed legislation, which applies to all other industries in this society. I have more examples I can draw out. Isn't it time to clean up and get a detailed legal code that fishermen can deal with?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e619	One could perceive the representative Bastesen there that one should not control the practice of fishing so strictly that everyone has to stay within the regulatory framework. But let me just stress that it is clearly stated by industry that strict controls are necessary to ensure that all nutritionists comply with the rules laid down for the practice of fishing and with the quotas set. It is absolutely necessary for all law enforcement practitioners to be respected. The background to the introduction of a limited inspection system is, as I said, that last year there was a significant circumvention of the legislation by dumping mackerel, mackerel with less economic value than could be achieved by sorting out and just taking the largest. I must say that it is not right, as the representative Bastesen pointed out, that we do not have legislation and legislation. We have a detailed regulatory work that is prescribed at kgl. the resolution, and the industry is aware of all the matters relating to the exercise of regulatory powers.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e626	I thank you for your answer. I have to go back to this with the free judgement of the administration regarding the enforcement of the legislation. This is not the case where the Minister for Fisheries says it is a detailed piece of legislation. Why, then, this secret, that you're not going to be able to figure out what it's all about? I'm going to draw up a simple example: in connection with herring fishing for a year, parts of the herring cast were drawn with the background that the herring was dying, as it was hot. The control unit was not in and looked at the waste. It wasn't close to notation. Nevertheless, it was established by the law of law that all herring caught in distress is dying. So this year you'll find that there's a J message that cancels a sentence like this, and that says you can still get fish out of the snorkel penot! How can a J message be used to invalidate a judgment?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e633	Of course, I cannot comment on this matter that the Bastisen travels here. Nor do I have the opportunity to check whether his manufacture is correct. But what's a fact is that we have a detailed code for the practice of fishing. For mackerel, there are, among other things, the state in which the catch may be authorised to be released from service. We have detailed rules for allowances for each vessel and the same for keeping a logbook, which are the essential areas for verifying that the individual fisherman remains within the scope of the legislation. And that's where the law enforcement officer on board is to be observed. There should be no problem either for skippers on a ship or for shipowners to understand that this is what the shipowner and the skipper have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e641	I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The eastern fishing district has 2-3 pst. of the fishing fleet in the country. But the ports in this area are getting very few funds to improve their ports. In Nevlunghamn in Larvik, fishing ports are now justified by the imperative need for dredging in order to allow the large fishing boats to be delivered to the fish recipient in order to allow the fish recipient and the work to remain. Why is the fishing district of the East deprioritised and will the Council of State re-prioritize such that the ports of Nevlunghamn can be repaired in 1999?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e650	One of the main challenges facing the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Agency is to facilitate increased value creation in the fisheries industry through, inter alia, the provision of services. the development and maintenance of fishing ports, as also referred to in the Notice of St. No 46 for 1996-97, Ports and infrastructure for maritime transport. There is today a great need for the development of fishing ports. In particular, existing ports are concerned and the need is linked to both deepening and molo construction. There is also a significant lag in maintenance. Nevlunghamn was listed as one of several projects for the improvement of the Coastal Works Disposal Plan for 1998, the so-called ‘unprinted annex’ to St. pp. No 1 for 1997-98. In 1997, the moles in Årviksand, Hasvik and Hammerfest suffered major and costly storm damage, for approx. Thirty million. kr. In addition, there has been a sustained progress and cost increase in some existing installations. This has led to the fact that Nevlunghamn and many other projects had to be taken out of the 1998 work plan. Nevlunghamn has not been re-introduced in the Coastal Plant Disposal Plan for 1999. This is related to the fact that Larvik and Brunlanes are now merged into one port district where the fishing activity is spread across several ports, while the recreational boat fleet is a strong press group in the use of ports. The coastal works have therefore requested that a plan be drawn up to ensure that the use of the ports can be seen together. The municipality has started this work, but the Coastal Administration has not found it right to enter and prioritize work in individual ports in the municipality until the final plan is available.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e661	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I am really very little satisfied with the answer I received. It's been quite many years since Larvik became a great municipality, and I think it's incredible to be able to answer that it's now going to be a trouble for the Nevlunghamn port to be repaired. Nevlunghamn port is a landing site for crabs and shrimps. It is a large market around Nevlunghamn for fresh fishery products. I think it's amazing that you can't afford the 400,000 – 500,000 kroner it will cost to land the large fishing boats that enter Nevlunghamn from all over the eastern region. And with the market that's there, I think it's simply a discrimination against us in the Eastern region.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e668	I can understand the frustration that many people may feel because it takes years for a port project to be implemented, but unfortunately it is this way and has been so from Finnmark and the Russian border, along the whole coast and to the Swedish border. The funds put at the disposal of the port budget by the State have not been enough to meet their needs for expansion. In this year's budget, however, we have increased the appropriations by 15 million. kr in order to be able to respond better to the wishes. At the same time, the Swedish Coast Guard Agency has committed itself to a more rational implementation of port development by completing the projects. This means that fewer projects can be included at the same time for development, but we expect that by rationalising them in this way, there will be room for more projects and completing them.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e673	But when that district has 2-3 pst. of the fishing fleet and they're able to get 1 million. kr of the money spent on port district improvements, I don't think it rhymes. Think 2-3 pst. of 170 million. kr – a little more should go to the eastern fisheries districts. There are also employees of immigrants in this fishing resort, and then it is actually our immigrants who are actually suffering because it is not possible to find a small pot of money for a small port in the eastern district. There is only one port in the eastern district that gets money at all in the 1999 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e678	Now I don't agree that percentages should be calculated as the representative does. We have to look at how difficult it is to create ports in the different fishing districts, by looking at the costs of building a port, for example. in Finnmark. In Vardø, there are dozens of them, maybe hundreds of millions of them. kr to expand Svartneshavna. In the case of Berlevåg, which is perhaps one of the most difficult projects, tens of millions have been spent over the years. kr to create the port that Berlevåg has got today. In the autumn of 1996 and most of 1997 we suffered storm damage on three moles in Nord-Troms and in Finnmark, which cost a total of 30 million. kr, and of course they have to go in front of new projects. If you don't repair the damaged moles, you can risk a complete raging of the moles, and of course then destruction of the ports. So that's the background that we only have three new projects in the 1999 work plan.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e686	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The Norwegian Fire Corps consists of 2,500 professional firefighters and 10,500 part-time employees. No training is required for part-time employees. Studies show that 90 pst. of part-time employees want more training in order to better deal with their tasks. They wish to complete equivalent basic training as required by the professional firefighters. Can the Council of State explain this need and whether the Ministry considers the training provided by the voluntary firefighters to be appropriate?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e695	In 1995, a new regulation on the organisation and disposition of fire services was adopted which also regulates training and competence requirements for fire workers. The provision on training and competence for part-time firefighters was not put into effect, as the content of the scheme and the financing had to be further explored. No organised and joint training is currently provided for part-time fire workers. The training of part-time firefighters is regulated in the old regulations on requirements for professional qualifications for firefighters personnel from 1977. This requires only part-time firefighters to have received initial training in their own or other fire services in the first year. However, Norway’s Fire School offers a voluntary letter course as well as a practical five-day course which is intended to be a practical part-time training course for part-time staff after completion of the letter course. It is clear that this training is not good enough. A working group consisting of the Ministry of Church, Education and Research, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Directorate of Fire and Explosion Protection and the Fire School of Norway was therefore set up in 1996 to identify training needs and provide a solution option. The working group has proposed a training model consisting of modules consisting of a high degree of self-study, evening education, Saturday collections and a final weekly collection. This implies that training will take place locally and across the country. However, it is proposed that Norway’s Fire School in Tjeldsund should be a central coordinating unit and be responsible for the development of teaching materials. Norway’s Fire School will therefore start work in 1999 on the preparation of curricula and the coordination/development of teaching materials to be used in the training of part-time staff. Teaching materials used for the training of full-time staff will, as far as possible, also be used by part-time staff. Part-time fire workers will be able to start with the first part of the training, i.e. the self-study, in 1999, when the teaching material is available. Training of 10,500 part-time firefighters is a demanding and comprehensive reform and therefore needs to be undertaken in stages over some time. This means that the correspondence can be started in 1999 but that closing weekly collections have to be postponed somewhat.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e710	I thank you for the answer, and I am glad that the Council of State shares my concern about this area, and I realize that things are going on. That I address this question has its background in the information I have obtained, among other things. from the Directorate for Fire and Explosive Protection. They refer to a study showing that close to 90 pst. by the voluntary fire service calls for better education. And that's, of course, what the Council of State was about, a minimum education or training they're getting today. I believe, of course, that it is important to listen to them. And I think it's a good process going on. The signals coming from those participating in the voluntary fire service are, of course, there's reason to take seriously, and it seems like they are. With regard to the preventative effect of such training, can the Council state whether part-time employees can receive more training in the conduct of prevention activities?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e719	I agree with the questioner, and when 90 pst. of those who run the part-time fire service, ask for and want training, I take it as a sign that the opening up of the offer that will come next year will be great. And as I said, Norway's Fire School is now working on completing curricula and getting learning materials that can be used for such training. The starting point is that they are trying to build as much on the full-time staff training as possible. I then expect – without having detailed knowledge of the technical plans for fire workers in Norway, because I cannot – that not least prevention is also part of this work. I think it's important that anyone added to the fire service knows a lot about that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e724	I thank you for your answer and would just like to stress that, with regard to the development of fires in Norway, it is far from the national objectives underlying this area. In fact, Norway is one of the countries in which it burns most. These are major challenges that we need to address in this area. I am pleased with the signals that have come from the Council of State, and hope that there will be an upgrade of education in particular for the part-time firefighters. I would just like to point out that the situation in many municipalities is still such that both the qualitative and the quantitative deficiencies, in particular in prevention, may be quite significant. So there's a lot to do, and I hope that what the Council of State has been about in its presentation and in its response to me is really being followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e731	The councils are nodding, so we'll assume that. Then we go to question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e739	This question, from Hallgeir H. Langeland's representative to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e742	That's right – I had asked the question to the Minister for the Environment, which I thought had to do with this too, but I'm going to ask the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Isocyanates are a group of chemical substances widely used in different products, including paints. The joint association of oilworkers has for a long time focused attention on the hazards associated with products containing isocyanates and working with them. [[OFS]] Products and work with them can cause severe allergic reactions and solvent damage of a different nature, even to deaths. What will the Council of State do to ensure proper labelling of the products, where appropriate, with prohibitions?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e751	Isocyanates are a group of chemicals that are very harmful to health but also have good operational properties and are used in a large number of products and operations. Even small quantities can cause serious health damage of different kinds, e.g.: acute poisoning hazard, respiratory damage or allergic reactions. For some isocyanates there is also a risk of cancer. Isocyanates are used in products such as foam, insulation materials, synthetic rubber, paints, varnishes and glues, fumes foams, moulding of electronics and as sealants in mountains. The Working Environment Act requires manufacturers and importers of hazardous chemicals to produce the labels and health and environmental safety data sheets for chemicals which they place on the market for professional use. Such chemicals shall also be notified to the Product Register. The employer is obliged to ensure that containers and packaging for hazardous chemicals used in the establishment are clearly labelled with the name and warning of the substances in Norwegian. The establishments shall keep records of the hazardous chemicals used and the information contained in the register shall contain sufficient information to enable the necessary safety measures to be implemented. Hazardous chemicals shall not be used if they can be replaced by chemicals which are less dangerous to workers. In 1975, the Labour Inspectorate provided for the isocyanates with specific requirements for employers in order to prevent workers from being exposed to these chemicals. In 1996, the Labour Inspectorate issued a briefing on the manufacture and use of polyurethane products, which is apparently the same as isocyanates – I regret that there are many difficult words here. This briefing provides information on the handling of isocyanates so that work on such products can be carried out without risk to life and health. A new directive on injecting paints is under preparation and will include work on paints and varnishes containing isocyanates. In cooperation with the Product Register, the Labour Inspectorate has now this autumn expired with letters to some 900 companies that have declared to the Register. The letter sets out the requirements for the labelling and preparation of data sheets for isocyanate products. The Labour Inspectorate is planning a campaign aimed at the construction industry. Isocyanates containing products [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e770	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e773	Isocyanate products are widely used in this industry, and the ethos will focus on the use of isocyanates in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e778	I would like to wait by thanking you for the answer until I have heard the whole thing, but I have a few additional problems. The Council of State is aware that one has actually gone to trial against Jotun when this is the case, that the case has been dismissed, but is an appeal to the State Attorney. That is to say, there is a great deal of interest in this, obviously because there has been health damage due to the use of these substances. And that's when I think the Council of State has a little too much time when she in a letter to the OFS, dated March 22, 1998, gives an answer that sounds very strange: ‘Chemicals are professionally heavy and may involve important industrial interests and therefore require thorough treatment.’ For me, it might seem that the business interests here are leading people's health. I would like the Council of State to comment on this. And then I get to come back to my other questions in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e788	Then I first take the end of my answer, and for the sake of order: it is the Labour Inspectorate who is responsible for following up on this. The Labour Inspectorate does not currently consider a ban on the use of isocyanate chemicals. These include: because alternative products are not yet sufficiently identified and can prove to be even more harmful. On the other hand, the Labour Inspectorate will consider a ban on the placing on the market of manufacturers and importers of these chemicals if they do not comply with the obligation to provide adequate information on health risks. In the years to come, occupational safety and health will be an important task for the establishment to monitor the behaviour of establishments handling isocyanates in relation to the requirements of the establishment. My responsibility is based on the fact that the Working Environment Act is part of my department. It is the Labour Inspectorate that is the executive body, and the advice that the Labour Inspectorate has given, and the measures that the Labour Inspectorate has taken, have, at least – I believe – proved to be sound.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e801	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I repeat the question: What is most important for the Council of State, health or business interests? The answer given to the OFS may indicate that industrial interests are priorities. Sweden has clear rules for the manufacture and use of isocyanate. The Labour Inspectorate has developed a briefing, no. 536. What I want to ask the Council of State is: can't that orientation, no. 536, to be converted into a regulation, thus ensuring a stricter practice? Finally, it turns out that it is difficult to obtain information from, among other things. The Oil Directorate in relation to the use and damage of this product. Will the Council of State support the public awareness of documentation that exists about the use of isocyanate?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e810	On the question of what's most important to me, business interests or employees' health, I can answer that's the last thing. I am responsible for the follow-up to the Working Environment Act, and there are clear rules for the health and safety of workers. I am also responsible for the part of the Oil Directorate that has to do with certainty on the socket, and I have noticed what the representative said now that it is difficult to obtain information from the Oil Directorate on these issues. I'm going to promise that I'll take that question up with the Oil Directorate and get some clarity on it. On the question of whether I want to make about orientation no. 536 to the regulation, I can't answer yes or no now, because I actually don't know the details of that orientation, I have to be so honest that I admit it. But there are things I'm going to make the department evaluate.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e819	So we go back to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e826	This question, from the representative Eirin Fallet to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Transport as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e829	«Cabin staff, consisting mainly of women, do not have a satisfactory statutory regulation of work and leisure time as most other occupational groups. I am aware that the matter has been raised with the Ministry of Transport/Air Transport, which has sent the matter to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. Where is the matter now, and what can the Council of State do to improve the working conditions of cabin crew?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e836	As you know, the issue of improving the working conditions of cabin crew with regard to the regulation of work and leisure has been raised with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has assessed the case, inter alia: in relation to the Working Environment Act and with assessments currently being carried out in the Ministry of Transport. I will, after considering the matter, take initiatives to improve the regulation of the law in this area. I propose that this be done in cooperation with, among other things. The Swedish Aviation Agency and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e843	I thank you for the positive response from the Council of State. It is not my intention to interfere with the freedom of negotiation of organisations. My concern is whether cabin crews have the best working conditions they can achieve, and whether these are in line with the Working Environment Act. Unfortunately, the general perception of this profession is in stark contrast to the cabin crew's own reality of their daily lives. Many who have chosen this profession have both family and children. Therefore, conditions are considered unsatisfactory, as the authorities avoid cleaning up the situation. First of all, this affects women. I would like to point out that the working situation of cabin crew can vary from airline to airline. I am grateful that the Council of State has now stressed that he will follow up the matter, and I have the confidence in the Council of State that he takes a serious view of this, because it has such a direct relation to the working conditions of a large professional group.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e848	Initially, the whole working environment law applies to aviation and flying personnel. But parts are excluded, and this is Chapter X of the Act, which regulates working time. The question is about the regulations imposed by the Aviation Act, which provide for the same protection for flying personnel in relation to the working time arrangements as the rules applicable under the Working Environment Act. I am aware that there is a complex working situation, as the representative addressed, and also the difference between what one might call ‘heavy’ and ‘light’ aviation. I can say the following: The matter is in an early investigation phase, but I am working on the matter to submit proposals for satisfactory regulation. It lies in the fact that I have taken a heavy interest in the views expressed by the representative in the supplementary question to me.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e856	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘It will be reported that 600 Tamils coming to Norway in 1996 are at risk of being returned to Sri Lanka. The first Tamils have already been picked up from reception and sent out. According to informed sources, it is not safe for Tamils who are not resident in Colombo to return to Sri Lanka. Tamilers are being persecuted on an ethnic basis in several places. Does the Council of State consider the situation to be conducive to the comprehensive repatriation of Tamil asylum seekers?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e865	This is a question that requires a supplementary answer, and I ask permission to exceed the time by a few seconds if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e870	The President assumes that the Storting will approve it, and thus the Council of State will have the time it needs.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e873	Thanks – It is approx. 330 citizens from Sri Lanka who have received a refusal to apply for asylum, who remain in Norway. Applications for asylum from Sri Lankan Tamils are subject to a specific and individual assessment. All Tamils in need of protection on an individual basis will be granted a residence permit in Norway. No one will be returned to Sri Lanka if there is reason to believe that they will need safety follow-up. Tamil asylum seekers who are not granted refugee status or who fulfil other conditions of residence shall return to their country of origin. Norwegian practice is based on a broad assessment of the situation in Sri Lanka, in particular those relating to the general security and human rights situation of civilian Tamils. This practice is consistent with the practices of the other Nordic countries and other European countries. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees has stated that the situation in Sri Lanka does not prevent the return to the country of origin of asylum seekers who have been refused their asylum applications after a thorough and individual assessment, including the return of Tamils from the north and east to Colombo. When assessing the risk to life and safety, it is important to distinguish between the north and east areas and the situation in those areas to which it is safe to return. In the areas of the north and east, war is taking place today. There is no doubt that this has had serious consequences for the civilian population there. No return shall be made to these areas. At the same time, it is a fact that the civilian population in the government-controlled areas of the south, including Colombo, is not directly affected by the acts of war. However, due to the dangers of individual terrorist acts in the south, the Tamil population could be subject to extensive control measures. The background is the assumption by Sri Lankan authorities that LTTE is behind and is responsible for such acts of terrorism. A central security measure is arrest and short-term imprisonment in order to bring the arrester’s identity and background to the clean. For those who are apprehended, this means that they are arrested until investigations have been carried out. In the vast majority of cases, this goes relatively quickly, and the arrested are released within 1 to 24 hours. The Sri Lankan Tamils who have to return to Sri Lanka are persons who have received their asylum applications carefully evaluated in two instances. Some have also been tried by the Norwegian Court of Justice. In their cases it has been found that there is no risk of persecution. Asylum seekers with a final refusal to apply for asylum, obligations initially to leave the kingdom voluntarily. If asylum seekers fail to comply with the decisions, the persons refused will be transported out. I can inform you that approx. 100 Tamils have returned to Sri Lanka since 1994 following rejection of their applications for asylum or residence permit in Norway. The Norwegian authorities are not aware that any of these have been subjected to assault after their return. The Norwegian authorities continue to believe that the general safety situation of Tamils in Sri Lanka does not mean that all Tamils should automatically be protected from returning to their country of origin, solely because of their ethnic origin.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e899	I thank you for your answer. The Minister of Justice expressed concern, but at the same time tried to calm down by saying that there was proper treatment. It is in stark contrast to the fact that the Tamil environment is quite desperate today. It's in stark contrast to people trying to commit carnage. It shows that they feel very insecure in relation to the treatment to which they are exposed. It's a fact that there are civil war-like conditions in parts of Sri Lanka, and the war seems to be escalating. That means that the tension is increasing, and that the risk of arbitrary arrests is also increasing in Colombo. Then I would like to ask the Minister of Justice: what does the Department do to obtain independent information, and to follow up those who are now being sent back? We have information that people have been thrown into prison, have been beaten up and go to cover their fears about what is happening to them in Colombo.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e908	As I said in my first answer, Norwegian practice means that no one will be returned to Sri Lanka if they are in danger of being persecuted. We are familiar with, as I informed, that in order to provide the right identity and to clarify uncertainties, people may be arrested, but then they are released after 1 to 24 hours. The thorough investigations carried out by the Norwegian side and the fact that our practice is in accordance with what the High Commissioner for Refugees believes to be sound, and also similar to the practice in the Nordic countries and other European countries, should ensure that no one is returned for persecution. It has been committed by the Norwegian authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e915	I find that we deeply disagree as to whether people are sent back to persecution. I would encourage the Council of State to stop the missions and review the applications in the light of the danger of a escalating war in Sri Lanka. But then the Council of State referred to practice in other countries. It is then that Denmark has an agreement to send 350 Tamils, while Denmark undertakes to provide detailed information on asylum seekers to Sri Lanka, and it is clear that the authorities that are interested in current transit routes. The agreement has been negotiated by a joint attaché – Norway and Denmark have a joint attaché in Sri Lanka. Then my question is: can we now be absolutely certain – absolutely certain – that there are no plans to reach similar agreements between Norway and Sri Lanka as it is between Denmark and Sri Lanka?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e922	I am not aware of the agreement that will exist between Sri Lanka and Denmark, and therefore I cannot say anything about it. It is true that we have a common foreign attaché, but the task of this attaché is to follow up the security and human rights situation in Sri Lanka to report to the Norwegian authorities on the experience of returning residence-refused asylum seekers from Norway and also from other Western countries. There are no plans to conclude such agreements as the representative Valle refers to, without which I have done well to ensure that such agreements exist at all.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e941	This question has been postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e947	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘So far, there have been many tragic road accidents on Norwegian roads this year. In particular, there have been many fatal accidents in East Agder. Traffic accidents with fatal outcomes or with great human injuries are often an unimaginable tragedy for those affected, but also a great burden on society. Will the Council of State explain what the authorities intend to do in order to reduce the number of road fatalities and road damage on Norwegian roads in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e956	I must be allowed to join the representative Andersen's statement that traffic accidents are tragedies for the people involved and their closest, as well as that this is a great burden on society. Although the number of injuries and deaths has remained stable over the last few years, it is clear that road safety work over time has had an impact. However, I am aware that the preliminary figures for this year, the first nine months, indicate that we will have an increase in the number of deaths compared to 1997. In terms of number of injuries, the numbers are more uncertain. There may be variations from year to year, and it is therefore important that we focus on the long-term lines. In the 1999 draft budget, I have sought to focus on road safety within a relatively narrow economic framework. The road budget will continue to focus on improvements to the road network that deliver road safety benefits, including: maintenance. The Ministry will also give priority to changing the attitudes and behaviour of road users. This will include, inter alia: significant efforts are being made to increase the use of safety belts through information measures and an increase in control activity as well as increased efforts to increase the quantity training of driving licence applicants. The control of heavy-duty vehicles will also be a priority. On the legislative side, proposals will be made for a lower per-mille limit, for a ban on the use of hands-free mobile phones while driving and for the introduction of a dot load system. Furthermore, I have been very concerned about the issue of racial protection. During 1998, the Ministry of Transport will draw up a national racial protection plan. The government has also taken steps to continue strengthening the road safety contribution to municipalities. Otherwise, the Government of the National Transport Plan 2002-2011, which will be promoted by the Stortinget in spring 2000, will provide a framework for future road safety work. With regard to the specific situation in East Agder, I can inform you that the road office in the county is in the process of developing a plan to increase the level of road safety in the county. The aim is to focus the main effort on road users for improved traffic behaviour.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e973	The death routes in East Agder are among the most desperate road accidents in this country, and something has to be done. Many of the accidents are caused by the blooming of a crazy speed culture in certain environments where extreme speeds are everyday favorite exercises. But that's just part of the total picture. Since the submission of this question, there has been another tragic traffic accident with a fatal outcome on the roads of East Agder. Victim of death No. 18 was a fact before the presswart was dried on my question-time question about this matter. There are now far more fatal accidents in East Agder than in any other country in this country in relation to the population. 18 fatal accidents are twice the number in 1997 and three times the number in 1996. Can the Minister for Transport imagine working to produce a report with a more in-depth analysis of the different causes behind this tragic statistics in East-Agder, so that we can take countermeasures and reverse the dramatic trend that we have witnessed on the roads in East-Agder?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e985	I have deep respect and understanding of the representative's strong commitment and that is to say that the road authorities in East Agder are now working on a special scheme for 1999 which has the job title "Concentration to Traffic Death". The goal is to reduce the number of deaths by 50 pst. In the short term, what can be done by physical measures is limited, but in addition to some minor physical measures, operational and maintenance measures will be targeted specifically to prevent fatal accidents. However, the main effort will be directed at road users, and checks and actions will be put in place to improve traffic behaviour. As the representative, I am also familiar with the speed culture that he mentions in his question to me. One tool that we'll get quickly is that we'll come back in winter with a plan for accident analysis commissions to just get to know what's behind the accidents. Now they don't want to initially cover all the counties, but they want to get insight. I will also take that view into account as to whether it may be particularly useful to ask the road authorities in East-Agder to go deeper into the material, because in the fight against traffic accidents and traffic death we must use the means at our disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e992	I appreciate the signals and the answers I get from the Council of State. I just want to focus on another thing about road safety, and that is the equipment that is available in newer cars versus older cars. You might say that in a car from 1970 you are killed in a certain accident. In a car from 1980 one survives with great damage, while in a car from the 1990s one survives quite well in many cases. There is a great difference between safety equipment in old and new cars. Here comes the Norwegian car tax policy. Does not the Council of State believe that it would be an important step in improving road safety when the accident first takes place, getting a lower tax on special safety equipment and, more importantly, lower taxes on Norwegian new cars? It's a big problem, in my view.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e999	Former PD Dørum and citizen Dørum have asked the same question as the PD. The Council of State has this answer: I know that the Ministry of Finance is now working on going through the entire charging system in order to get a better profile on it in relation to environmental considerations. As a member of the government, I am going to take the views of the representative seriously into that work.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e1007	I have a question for the Minister for Transport: ‘The Western and Southern Cooperation Council, in its letter to the Minister for Transport on 24 August 1998, made proposals on how to obtain -time ferry services in SAVOS without investing in new ferries. [[SAVOS]] The solution from SAVOS is to take ferries from North Norway to cover the West better. The Directorate of Roads was asked to examine this proposal in meeting with the Department on 20 October 1998. Does the Council of States consider it appropriate to improve the supply of SAVOS by making supply in North Norway worse?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e1016	I confirm that the Cooperation Council of the West and South countries – SAVOS – has presented a proposal for ferry disposal which requires half-hour departures on the routes along the Coastal Path E39. This is in line with the long-term objectives of the parent road link as defined in Norwegian Road and Road Road Road Plan 1994-97, but which are not expected to be achieved during the current road planning period. In this context, it was also asked if one could find a more collective exploitation of the ferries along the coast. I appreciate the fact that it is being searched for solutions that can make the termination of ferry traffic more efficient than what we have so far managed to achieve. However, the Road Directorate has made me aware of the problems that this issue could cause outside the SAVOS area. However, I have asked the directorate to consider the proposal and to investigate whether, if any, a more optimal disposal of the ferry fleet can be achieved. However, this requires amicable agreements with any parties. I also assume, in any case, that one should avoid adverse consequences for the ferry service outside the SAVOS area. It is in my opinion that everyone has to endure being asked to find cooperation solutions, but central authorities cannot or will not dictate any answer. I will come back to the matter and give SAVOS an answer when the Directorate of Roads' investigation into the various questions they raised is available.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e1030	I thank the Council of State for the answer. One of the reasons given by SAVOS for proposing this was that half of Norway’s exports come from the West. If so, I would assume – with all due respect for SAVOS – that the other half must come from North Norway. That they then put forward a plan to get such a luxury as half-hour departures, when we in North Norway have to wait both two and three, and up to eight hours on ferry departures, I think with respect to reporting is naughty, not to say premature. I agree to make the best use of the ferry equipment, but there is no doubt that if such a system is set up in the West during the winter season that is planned, it will be a problem from the Westerners if this is to end when summer comes and real traffic starts.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e1037	A life of politics has taught me that the people of the coast speak a clear language. But it has also taught me that under reasonable circumstances a person can also find practical solutions. I have no desire for anyone to be dictated. Of course, I have deep insight into the fact that there is significant value creation in the north. The representative Bastisen has been a powerful driver of what we've been getting into next year's budget, a better ferry connection to Luray. Therefore, I have as my starting point that when someone asks me – no matter who asks me – I always investigate a case, based on this. I know, for example. that the Nordic states have been able to assist in the Finnmark in relation to the Fatima project. We always do the question. Listening to an answer we're also doing, and my starting point is that we can't or will not dictate any answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e1042	I thank you again for the answer, and I also have to take the opportunity to say that it was nice to get through the ferry connection to Luray and to get the situation right there. It shows that it's possible to take things up so it gets a positive turn. I really hope that this case also gets – that it can be a positive arrangement for people in the West, but it must not go beyond the offer that is very necessary to have in North Norway to maintain the business we have in the North.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e1047	In a time of tight economic conditions, there is splinter and hard work to do. The starting point for fissure and hard work is polite questions. But cash answers are also part of reality. Splitting and doing requires cooperation, and I'm not in any way interested in putting the coastal people up against each other, knowing as I am how the tensions can light up along the coast as we move north and south of certain geographic dividing points. A life of politics has taught me that it is best to build bridges. But it has also taught me that people who speak in clear language can bear to be asked, because they can also answer for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e1055	This question, from the representative Jan Johnsen to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Church, Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e1058	I have a question for the Minister of Church, Education and Research, which I understand will be answered by the Minister of Transport: ‘Teaching contracts with full practical training in apprenticeships may be concluded when the apprentice begins to learn after 21 years of age. This means that apprentices who have completed an apprenticeship and who want a degree in a related subject are cut off from this before the age of 21. Will the Council of State look at the possibility of changing this so that young people can gain a better professional competence?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e1067	Reform 94 stipulated that the main model of vocational training should be two years of training in school followed by two years of apprenticeship. This was done for several reasons. Among other things, more people will be able to train on a company basis when each apprentice has a shorter apprenticeship period. The law on vocational training in the workplace provides in the fifth paragraph of Section 1b that when the apprentice starts to learn after he has reached the age of 21 he can sign a full apprenticeship contract. The aim of this exception was that it would be possible for young people who do not have training rights to receive training as apprentices without having to take a basic course and VK I. As the law is today, young people who want to sign a full-time apprenticeship in the company cannot do this until they are 21 years old. The law does not prevent the person concerned from working in the new subject as an unskilled person with the objective of examination on the basis of Section 20 of the Vocational Training Act. Another solution is to work as a normal employee until the age of 21, and then to sign a learning contract. The apprenticeship can then be deducted from the working time of the company. I see the problem with the age limit that applies today. At the hearings held by the Ministry with the social partners in connection with the planned notification to the Stortinget on Reform 94, the question of the 21-year limit has been raised. The issue is linked, inter alia, to: the structure of vocational training, the right to secondary education and access to apprenticeships. The problems here will be discussed in the Communication. The Ministry assesses the 21-year limit in the context of proposals for regulations for the new Training Act. The new law requires exceptions to the training scheme to be laid down in regulations. The regulations shall be consulted in the new year and will be laid down before the new law is put into effect. After the notification of secondary education has been dealt with in Stortinget, I will decide on the matter in the context of a new regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e1082	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In fact, I understand that the Council of State is putting up with an arrangement on this issue. This is because a cook who wants to be a waitress after he has been trained as a cook has to wait until he reaches the age of 21 to continue training in the related subject. It is also true that those who enter a related subject usually have reduced their learning time, for example 18 months. It will be a strength both for industry and for this matter, to be allowed to move automatically to a new subject once he has finished the first subject. I hope I understand the answer correctly, that this will be an opening for the new regulations that I understand to be made in the New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e1091	I can confirm from the answer I have given on behalf of the Council of State Lilletun that he is familiar with the problems. It is also true that the 21st year limit introduced was different in the first round of Reform 94, which was 20 years away. It is also true that in the law itself there is no 21-year limit. I am also well aware of the fact that the Voksenåsen Declaration, which is the basis of the Bondevik government, is committed to ensuring that the right to education – to call it that – is respected in such a way that greater flexibility can be demonstrated. Of course, there are attitudes that are taken into account in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e1108	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e1114	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Error-medication and insufficient control and information on the use of medicines is an increasing problem. Misuse of medicine frames to a large extent the elderly and can lead to a poorer quality of life with anxiety, depression, sleeplessness and anxiety. How does the Council of State think that we can get better control of drug use?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e1123	Medicinal products are one of the main health care inputs. Proper use represents a significant value in the treatment of patients. It is important that the doctor’s decision to use medicinal products is based on best documented and neutral knowledge and an overall assessment of the patient’s needs. An important contribution by the country is to ensure that doctors have access to manufacturer-neutral information. Today, a number of producer-independent measures are financed in whole or in part by the State. The representative of Kaland is right that today we know too little about how medicines are actually used, both among young and older users. What we know is that more than half of the drugs are used by people over the age of 65. At the same time, there is reason to believe that not all prescriptions are equally appropriate, which indicates the existence of drug-related harm. I want to look at how we can get knowledge translated into practice. An important measure in this context is to establish a good and more detailed pharmaceutical statistics based on what is prescribed for which disorders and to which groups. This could help to improve the ability of doctors to assess their own prescriptions themselves and to provide better overview of where action, if any, should be taken. Experience from local cooperation between doctors and pharmacists shows that discussions on drug use on the basis of statistics on self-prescription can produce good results. I would like to draw attention to the issue of anonymised, prescription-based pharmaceutical statistics and how they can be used in quality assurance for prescription. Medicinal products must be handled properly and used in accordance with the prescription of the physician. Many studies show that misuse of medicinal products is a major problem in both primary and health care. This is a significant potential for improvement here. Minor errors in the handling and use of medicinal products will bring both health and economic benefits. Means of achieving this may include increased use of dose dispensation, involving individually adapted medical kits indicating when the medicine is to be taken, prescriptions for smaller starting packages when starting medical treatment, etc. Further restrictions on the amount of medicine allowed from pharmacies for a given period of time are also relevant. This reduces the amount of medication that the user is required to keep in order. I would also like to come back to these measures in a more detailed form in the notification of the major paper on pharmaceutical policy later in the autumn. However, the most important thing is that healthcare professionals have time and knowledge to provide the patient with a proper explanation of the use of medicinal products. The permanent reform could improve the situation by establishing strong contact between the patient and the permanent doctor based on better knowledge of the patients for which the individual doctor is responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e1136	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good answer. I believe that quality assurance in this area is quite necessary in the future. I am also pleased that the Council of State will come back with a big paper on how to solve these problems. I believe that the wrong use of drugs today is a very serious health problem and causes many to suffer from a bad life situation. In the worst case, it can also have a fatal outcome. In addition to the fixed medical devices, which I believe are very important, perhaps not least according to the situation of the elderly, it is important that the Council of State assesses the blue prescription system. It may be possible that the blue recipe will be printed for, for example: One month at a time? The other thing I want to point to is something I have read in newspapers before, that there is an unlikely accumulation of medicines in Norwegian medical apps, actually for about. 400 million. kr. This is money that could be used for health prevention. I also agree that action against health professionals, with a view to better information, better control of drugs and the throwing of old drugs, must be an important area to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e1149	I can confirm that the issue of restrictions on the amount of medicines allowed to be supplied for a given period of time is relevant and will be considered in this pharmaceutical document, for example. prescription for one month’s consumption instead of what is largely common today, i.e. three months’ consumption at a time. I believe that this along with an action I mentioned, dose dispensation, will contribute to better use, and that will help us to get a smaller accumulation of medicines in private homes and less misuse, which I fully agree with is a significant social problem that we have to live to. I believe that the measures we will gradually present to the Storting will be involved and contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e1156	This will be more of a comment. Before I got into Stortinget, I worked as a nurse in a municipality. What I often thought was scary was that when older people, for example. the man in the house, had received medication, so he might have shared these with the wife and others in the family. Because he worked well, and then he also believed well in people with whom he was with. So, not least, the information from the health professionals involved in this need to be improved. Both caregivers, nurses and caregivers need to be better informed about how crazy it is to use random medicine for those who absolutely should not. So we're faced with a very important task, which I'm pleased that the Health Council will now intervene, because I think this will improve the life situation very much for those who are involved.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e1164	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘If a life-threatening pandemic strikes in Norway, it will not be possible to purchase a vaccine on the world market. It is therefore important to start vaccine production in a normal situation. When the pandemic is here, it'll be too late to learn it. Today we have a newly constructed vaccine factory that can produce approx. 350,000 doses. Will the Council of State ensure that we can start the production of influenza vaccines, so that we are prepared when the pandemic strikes?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e1173	A flu pandemic may occur when a completely new influenza virus occurs against which humans do not have immunity. Such new viruses have occurred four times during this century. In the past 50 years, the Asiatic disease of 1957 and the Hong Kong disease of 1968 were such pandemics, and the Spanish disease of 1918 is the most serious influenza pandemic known. Before the new influenza virus occurs and causes disease, it is not possible to guess what the next pandemic virus will look like. It is therefore not possible for any vaccine manufacturer to start vaccine production until a new virus has given the first cases of disease. New influenza viruses have usually appeared first in China or other parts of Southeast Asia. So far it's taken half a year or so before the disease has reached our part of the world. It is this period of time that one has to develop and produce vaccines against the influenza virus in question. Sometimes the pandemic has gone into several waves, so that a vaccine that is ready some time later can also have a significant preventative effect. So far, Norway has based its preparedness for influenza on imports of vaccines from abroad. The ‘fabric’ is referred to as the newly built premises for vaccine production at the State Institute for Public Health. There it is intended to produce influenza vaccines, primarily in the light of professional and production preparedness, for example for a pandemic situation. Preparations for the production of influenza vaccines may start as soon as the production of meningococcal B vaccine is well under way, probably at the end of next year, because it has been appropriate for public health to concentrate on the work on the production of a type of vaccine before a set starts on the production of the influenza vaccine. From the turn of the year 1997-98, the National Institute for Public Health, in cooperation with the State Health Authority, has begun the preparation of a national contingency plan against influenza pandemics. Norway is already linked to the WHO-based surveillance system to warn of a threatening influenza pandemic. The plan shall facilitate the best possible prevention and treatment of the population in the event of a pandemic, inter alia. ensuring the availability of vaccines and medicines against the influenza and its complications. It will also address the re-priorities of health services that may be needed under a severe pandemic. In a comprehensive pandemic, many important societal functions could be affected. The preparedness and therefore the plans for the most serious scenarios must therefore be very comprehensive. The work on this planning document shall be completed by 1 July of the following year.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e1197	I thank the Minister for the answer, which I think was adequate and correct. I just want one clarification: have I understood correctly when I perceive the minister so that you will start producing this influenza vaccine that he mentions, when the production of the vaccine against meningitis is complete, and that the strategy for preparedness is then put in place for a possible new pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e1202	Yes, work on a comprehensive contingency plan for this type of case is already under way and, as mentioned above, will be completed in the middle of next year. As regards the issue of the production in Norway of influenza vaccines, the public health scheme is that as soon as the meningococcal B vaccine production is properly started, work on the production of such an influenza vaccine will begin.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e1207	I thank you again for the answer, and I am convinced that the situation that I have mentioned has taken the government and public health seriously and is getting ready for it. It is reassuring for us that – at least for the time being – has been so lucky to get ready for the big pandemics.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e1222	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 14 has been answered earlier. Then we're done with case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-04.ana.ud1606e1235	There is no record.
