ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e56	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Rikke Lind For Buskerud County: Frank Willy Larsen For Uppland State: Kjell Ivar Fossnes For Eastfold County: Morten Olsen The request for a welfare permit for the representative of Jørgen Holte from the Central Party Group shall be submitted from Monday 7 December to Friday 11 December. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Eli Sollied Överaas, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e92	On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the scheduled weekly programme for the current week be amended to take account of the schedule of the current and the evening meetings, so that, in the evening, Monday 7 December following the end of the Annual General Meeting, the minutes of the Odelstinget are held. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e102	Before the proceedings are brought, the President will propose that the Storting should depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and make a total vote after that date. 1-3 on the current map has been completed and then aggregated over case No. 4-6 at the end of today's meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. To inform the representatives, the President will inform them that the budget has reached the end of the year. S. No 9 for 1998-99 by the Energy and Environment Committee, not available in print. The final edition will be distributed during the afternoon meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e118	Only a few brief comments in relation to the framework area 14 budget, which is the budget relating to the size of the underlying units, the National Audit Office, the Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Committee and the Management Ombudsman of the Storting. Let me first fix a little mistake. It's on page 2 of the first column next paragraph. It says: ‘In the case of the Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Services Control Committee of the EEAS, NOK 2,300000 has been proposed, which means a reduction...’ There should be no «reduction»; there is an increase in 1998 in the amount allocated of 4.7 pst. with which it is to be adjusted in order to bring this into line with the price increase. Moreover, it is the only budget line that has that increase; all the other budget lines have substantially an increase that is greater than normal cost developments. This is because there has been a great deal of progress, especially in the administration of Stortingen and Stortingen, but also in the Riksrevision, which in recent years has seen a dramatic growth in the budgets of these institutions – in relation to the budget sizes we are talking about here. There is no doubt that the expansion of the administration of Storting in recent years has helped to significantly improve the working conditions of the stockpiling representatives, in particular in relation to committee work. In particular, the conversion to new budgetary systems has made it necessary within the Administration of the Storting to be particularly vigilant in order to provide better follow-up equipment for the Committees, particularly the Financial Committee. But this has also benefited the other committees. However, there is reason to stress that there will probably be some in the Storting that believe that some of this increase should come to the secretariats of the individual political parties, because many of the large-scale representatives have such good help and support in their party groups in their daily work, which is not always related to committee work. It may therefore be necessary for us in the years to come, perhaps also to discuss how the resources of the support apparatus offered to the staging representatives are actually to be distributed, because that is what is going on in itself. The budget for the Storting and Storting Administration shall primarily be such as to enable the representatives of the Storing to do the best possible job in the areas of administration and, of course, to maintain the necessary contact with the population, who is the boss of Storting in many ways. In addition to this, there is reason to stress that the construction activity and the material investments that the Storing undertakes will probably decrease in the years to come. There will then be a possibility of as broad a basis as possible for a wide-ranging discussion of the wider areas of activity. With regard to the territory of the National Audit Office, this sector also has a relatively high growth rate. It is related to the fact that the Riksrevision, under provisions taken by the Storting, widens its scope of action in terms of administrative audit. There is reason to stress that there has been no overall debate in the Storting on the extent to which control activities are to be carried out by Stortinget. There is probably a need for a more comprehensive discussion of the requirements to be imposed on the Riksaudition and the requirements to be met by the Storting even with regard to the level of detail of the exploitation of the control functions of the Storting. From time to time there will be a need for more general discussions about this, because it can easily be seen that the Storting intervenes in many ways in what is the work of the Government and the administration. Nevertheless, Storting's control function is an important part of Storting's work, and we have to be concerned about how to do this as seriously and properly as possible. The National Audit Office is preparing a new law on audit activity, and it will then be possible for the Stortinget to come back to a general discussion on the Riksrevision's work areas and working methods when dealing with this law. I look forward to the fact that, on that occasion, the Stortinge may take a general debate that not only affects the legislative work on this subject with revision but also concerns the scope and level of detail of the audit and control activities to be carried out. With these words, on behalf of the Committee, I would like to recommend the Stortinget to join in the recommendations made by the Committee in this area 14.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e153	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e165	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 779]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e179	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 779]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e187	Then we are ready for voting in case No. 1-3 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e443	Then the vote in case No. 1-3 completed, and we're going to deal with the remaining issues on today's map. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 4-6 is dealt with as a whole – and considers this to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e475	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party, Christian People's Party and Right 15 minutes each, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 10 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each of the party groups, and five lines with replies after the insertion of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e486	The position of the Ministry of the Environment’s budget shows that there are only minor differences between the majority and minority proposals. This relates, on the one hand, to the new budgetary system, which requires the establishment of an absolute framework for the various areas of expenditure, and, on the other, to the fact that there is a broad consensus on the main priorities of the Ministry of the Environment's budget. The consensus is thus also an expression of the fact that the Workers' Party is not primarily critical of what the Government is doing in environmental policy. Our criticism is primarily about what it doesn't do. It's been over a year since the central parties took over the government power. Since then, of course, we have received the budget, but otherwise we have only got one matter of importance for consideration in the Stortinget. It is the announcement of the follow-up to the Kyoto Protocol, where the Government chose to continue the main lines of Norwegian climate policy. In addition to a minor issue of ship navigability, the Government has not promoted a single case, not a single proposal for the Environment Storting. Things that have been notified are deferred. For example, the promised Council of State has a number of times a larger report, a major review of the state of the state of the state of the state, which was due to be presented now in the autumn. It has not come, and as far as I now understand, will not come until the next harvest. In the past, no new issues have been announced by the Ministry of Environmental Protection in the spring session. We don't have much time in the environmental battle, but the government seems to have a very good time. The majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment is more impatient than the Government in terms of progress in environmental work, therefore the Committee requires the Government to promote its own communication on outdoor life. Ensuring open air and public access to natural and outdoor areas is an important environmental issue, and we know that outdoor areas are under pressure, not least in many of the metropolitan areas. It's been many years since we had an overall review to secure the outdoor interests, so it's time we got a new review like this. We have many unresolved environmental problems at home, but far more serious are the major environmental problems we have in our neighbourhoods. Nuclear pollution and environmental problems in Russia and the Eastern European countries are one of the main environmental and security policy challenges we are facing today. The situation in our neighbourhoods, and especially in North-West Russia, is marked by an extensive nuclear activity, both civil and military, with large amounts of radioactive waste without satisfactory storage conditions, unloaded submarines waiting for dismantling, and nuclear power stations in such a state that we would have preferred to see them closed. This was first and foremost known to the Energy and Environment Committee when the Committee visited Kola and Arkhangelsk earlier this autumn. The geographical proximity of the problems means that Norway has a special responsibility to help improve nuclear safety and reduce the risk of pollution. The more serious it is that the centre parties, the Right and the Advance Party are now adopting a dramatic cut in the appropriations for cooperation with the neighbourhoods of Central and Eastern Europe. Last year, 428 million were allocated. on environmental measures and other cooperation measures with Eastern Europe and Russia. Now the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Government Parties are proposing to reduce this allocation to 55 million. 1999 kr. To some extent, this reduction can be explained by the lack of momentum in projects, but the cut is so large that the Government itself admits by letter to the Stortinget that it will lead to a real reduction in efforts in 1999. This can have major consequences, for example: for nuclear safety work in North-West Russia. It's about solidarity with our neighbours in the north. The huge environmental problems in the Kola Peninsula are a threat both to the local population and to the region, so efforts need to be stepped up, not down. Today morning oil from the North Sea was sold for a little over 70 kroner per year. barrel. In the national budget, the government has based itself on an oil price of NOK 110 per year. barrel. If next year's oil price stays at today's level, that means the state loses 30-40 billion kroner. We have thus confirmed once again that the oil revenues are very uncertain. This uncertainty is relatively small. Therefore, instead, we need to develop a policy that allows us to deal with the uncertain incomes. The working party believes that the fluctuations in oil revenue must be reflected in the fluctuating reserves of the oil fund, not in fluctuating government appropriations for welfare. But in order for the oil fund to really be a damper to unsafe oil revenues, the damper must work both ways. The problem is that many lots want it to be used only one way. The central parties and the Progress Party would spend more money as oil revenues were higher than foreseen, without realizing that the consequence would then have to be cut off from the government's expenditure on school, care for the elderly and health when the revenue that is currently lower than intended. The progress party thought the unforeseen high oil revenues were like a lottery prize we had to be allowed to use. But if the high oil revenues last year were like winning in Lotto, today's low oil prices are like losing on the racetrack. Also the Progress Party must understand that if one day you win in Lotto and the other day loses on the race track, it is wise to set aside the gain to cover the loss. Petroleum activities are not about gambling. It's about managing our common national wealth, and it's about securing future pensions and the welfare of the future. It requires accountability and predictability in economic policy. The low oil prices not only threaten the state budget, they also threaten thousands of jobs in the shipbuilding industry along the coast. The government is not responsible for the low oil prices, but the government is responsible for making proposals that make a difficult situation even more difficult. What oil industry needs is a predictable and safe framework. Instead, the Government has been in favour of measures that create uncertainty and unforeseeability. In the State budget, the Government proposed increased taxes, increased taxes and more time-consuming and bureaucratic procedures for developing applications. The budgetary procedure in this autumn in the Grand Duchy means that all these proposals will be downgraded. The government seems completely unaffected that it is now losing a number of proposals it made in the State budget. As late as June, the government even asked cabinet questions about one of them. In June, the Government would go away if it did not get an impact on an increase in the CO2 tax on oil. In November, it doesn't matter that it suffers defeat in exactly the same case, as well as many other cases. It's a principleless lack of principle that's quite unique. The international oil market is among the most manipulated and regulated markets in the world. There are two ways to regulate a market. One can regulate the price and thus influence the volumes, or one can regulate the volumes and thus affect the price. Today there is massive intervention on the oil market on the part of consumer countries. Hardly any product is taxed more than the oil. There may be good reasons for such a tax policy, but it is obvious that there is intervention in the market. Therefore, the issue of producer regulation is not about whether the market should be subject to political regulation. It is about the balance between the intervention of producers and the intervention of consumers. Norway’s oil production is about 4 pst. total world oil production. Nevertheless, what Norway does in the oil market is important. We have introduced production regulations in Norway several times in the past. From 1986 to 1989, the then Labour Party Government carried out production cuts of 7,5 pst. The Workers' Party also supported the Government's decision in March this year to impose a production restriction of 3 p.m., or 100 000 barrels per. day(s) We believe it is important to continue this restriction of production even after the end of the year, as the OPEC countries have decided to do. The working party therefore supports a continued production restriction of 100 000 barrels per. the day in 1999. Other speakers from the Working Party will take up other questions in your configuration. I refer to the Workers' Party's proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e530	Jens Stoltenberg has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e535	During the last year's budget debate, we also discussed the presentation of the Kyoto climate negotiations. Since then, the oil price has fallen by almost 50 pst., with serious consequences for our economy and job losses. The CICERO Climate Institute estimates approx. 8 pst. lower oil price with the Kyoto Agreement than without. The tapes at that time amounted to about 20 billion kroner. My question to Stoltenberg is: Does the representative of Stoltenberg want Norway to go in to contribute, as a result of the Kyoto agreement, to further weakening the international oil price?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e542	There is no target for the Workers' Party to reduce the oil price received by producers. The main point in terms of the Kyoto agreement is that we cannot say that for Norwegian oil revenues, we cannot take the climate problems seriously. We have to get rid of the emissions of CO2 to do something about the environmental problems. Now, if one has a sensible approach to climate problems, Norway will also in many ways be a winner economically, as well as environmental benefits. This is because, for example: CO2 taxes today– taxes on fossil fuels – are very heavy and very high on oil, while there is almost zero or no tax on e.g. coal. This means that just getting more rational fossil fuel taxation through more coal tax could at least help to strengthen the competitive position of gas, and indeed some analyses have also shown that oil could strengthen its competitive position. So it is fully possible to reconcile Norway's economic interests with a sensible climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e549	The right and the working party agree to ensure the stability of the petroleum sector and the foreseeable framework conditions. This is important at a time when it is necessary to improve the competitiveness of Norwegian pedestal. The agreement has contributed to the failure of the Government to implement a number of proposals that would have exacerbated the framework conditions on the Norwegian base. My first question is whether Stoltenberg now sees the need to change the framework conditions in an improved direction, among other things. an assessment of the level of taxation of petroleum companies. Another important element of the framework conditions on Norwegian pedestal has been the agreement to maintain three independent oil environments on the pedestal: Statoil, Hydro and Saga. Statoil has now purchased up to 20 pst. in Saga, and I record that Stoltenberg has taken note of this as a business decision at Statoil. But Statoil has also justified its purchase as a strategic location, and that is what my question to Stoltenberg concerns. Does Stoltenberg see that Statoil's acquisition in Saga weakens the three independent environments, that Saga's ability to find other partners is weakened by the fact that the Norwegian state company is so heavy inside the private Saga, and finally, that we are now moving in the opposite direction of the rest of Europe, where one is moving towards privatisation, while on the Norwegian base one develops in a more state-capitalist direction by the Norwegian state company having entered so heavily into the private Saga?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e556	An ongoing assessment of the framework conditions for the petroleum industry is necessary, and it is more than tax; it is also about concession conditions and other issues. My main assessment is that we should be careful about adjusting the tax system, up and down. We need predictability, and that means that when you had very high revenues from the oil business a few years ago, I was against increasing taxes. In return, I would be a little careful to reduce them when the revenues are low. We should have a system that is as robust as possible against fluctuations. This, of course, does not mean rejecting any assessment; it just means that we cannot adjust the tax system in line with the oil price, either up or down. In the case of Saga, I would say that the Workers' Party is a member of three independent oil environments in Norway, we have expressed that in many ways. As far as Statoil's purchases are concerned, I have just pointed out that the first purchase of Statoil Hydro's share was made. The government then gave the impression that there was a limit here – here, but no longer. Then Statoil bought 5 pst. And then the government says that the limit that was set to 15 pst., now it's 20 pst. My point has been that the purchases of Statoil have been made, I expect Statoil to have entered into consultation with the owner and the government according to the correspondence previously made between Statoil and the department. It is not the Workers' Party that has allowed Statoil to first buy up to 15 pst. And then to 20 pst., it's the government that has done. Our assessment is that government ownership in Saga has also contributed for many years to ensure Saga's national anchoring, and rejecting state ownership in Saga may be the same as saying that Saga is going to be completely foreign. And paradoxically, the state ownership as well as the central government now manages – i.e. increased state ownership in Saga – helps to secure Saga on Norwegian hands and thus also helps to secure three different and independent Norwegian oil environments.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e567	I noticed that Jens Stoltenberg was dissatisfied with the government's environmental efforts – that is quite mildly said. I also saw in Dagbladet today a headline where it said: 'Aggravation of environmental policy' with the current government. «Aggravation of environmental policy» could well have been a heading of the National Labour Party meeting, and I believe that there are also some representatives sitting here in the Chamber who would be more than willing to confirm it. I understand that Jens Stoltenberg has sat down and read the overview of matters that have been dealt with by Stortinget. I am surprised that he uses the number of issues promoted by the Ministry of the Environment as a benchmark on the government's environmental profile. In Agenda 21, one of the objectives is to be more and more cross-sectoral, and we now know that environmental action plans have been drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Environment for several departments, and that much more has been done than what is reflected in the number of cases sent to the Grand Duchy. It surprises me that a former State Secretary in the Ministry of the Environment and to the extent that both the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Finance think in this way about the environment – it must be something more than what comes from the Ministry of the Environment. In one year, this government has taken more stand for the environment than the Workers' Party has done since the Brundtland Commission's report came ten years ago. I want to mention part of these important, big issues: The government has said no to the expansion of Upper Otta. The government has chosen to listen to environmental interests and has proposed an investigation of zero alternatives instead of a new large field of fire in Hedmark. The government proposed the most environmentally friendly trajectory option for Lofast. The government has proposed an increase in the electricity tax, it has increased support for an increase, and it has provided a comprehensive impact report on the follow-up to the Kyoto Protocol. Jens Stoltenberg would like to continue counting the number of cases dealt with by the Committee, but he knows better than to use this as an indicator of the Government's environmental profile.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e578	I agree that the number of issues raised by the Ministry of the Environment is not the only measure of whether or not an active environmental policy is being pursued, but it must be allowed for the opposition to point out that very few issues are coming, and more than that: the issues notified are not coming. Now it has been heard throughout the spring from the Government that one and the other environmental issues were to be addressed in the autumn in connection with the so-called environmental report on the state of the kingdom – it was several times specifically promised by the Council of State from this pulpit. Then we come to the harvest, and then the proposal is not promoted. Then we just point out that the government has not followed up it itself promised. And an opposition that doesn't, doesn't do its job. If the government doesn't do its job, it's not like we're not doing our job. Then I agree that environmental policy is about more things than what is happening in the Ministry of the Environment's budget, and then I believe that one of the most important areas is our efforts to address the environmental problems in North-West Russia: sulphur emissions and nuclear uncertainty. And then this government cuts in those proposals from over 400 million. kr last year, initially 100 mill. 1999 kr. They are trying to explain to some extent that they have also been given an undertaking mandate, and that it is not possible to spend all the money. Well, I don't think those reasons are good enough, you might be able to consider that there's something in that kind of argument. But then the additional cut, that's now halved again, from 100 million. kr. to 55 million. kr, and then the Government acknowledges in its own letter that it will go beyond the activities and activities of the environment and nuclear safety, inter alia. in North-West Russia. Cutting as dramatically as efforts are now being made to protect the environment and nuclear safety in North-West Russia is a serious error on the part of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e585	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e589	A future energy policy for Norway must, in the view of the Progress Party, be based on the principles of free competition between energy sources and long-term and predictable framework conditions for the industries providing energy in the market. Weak oil prices in recent times make it even more topical than ever with innovation and efficiency in our oil industry. It's as we know it's hard to predict the future, but there's a lot of evidence that we're hardly coming back to the level we used to have on oil prices. The attractiveness of Norwegian capital to oil companies is weakened, and rationalisation and efficiency will be crucial in the future, together with stable and predictable framework conditions. If we are to survive as an oil nation, we must therefore take very seriously the signals coming from the oil industry and the market. Unfortunately, the government’s management of these issues in the last year has been counterproductive. Investment delays on the socket, cut oil production and increased CO2 tax on the socket are all examples of measures that weaken the competitive position of the Norwegian socket. The government's draft budget also proposed that the limit for the simplified treatment of petroleum investments should be reduced from DKK 5 billion to DKK 3 billion. However, I am pleased that a majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right, have agreed against this proposal. I am also pleased that the budgetary agreement with the Government, the Advance Party and the Right removed – or rather reversed – the increase in CO2 tax on the base that we received in the revised national budget. Another and important question from the national actors on the pedestal is the political environment’s view of the three oil environments we have today. There has been a broad consensus in this room on these questions in the past. However, it is with some amazement that I note that in the comments of the Committee, the Progress Party is alone in expressing great scepticism for Statoil's purchase in Saga Petroleum. The acquisition clearly weakens the three oil environments we have, and increases public ownership in the industry. We also assume in our remarks that the Government intervenes through the General Assembly of Statoil and ensures that further purchases do not take place. I now registered in the reply between representatives Stoltenberg and Sanner that we had a certain clarification from the Workers' Party in this matter. But I still want to challenge the other parties to clarify their views on the three oil environments during today's debate. The Progress Party believes that we need to be able to make a much greater use of our national gas resources in a sensible way than today. The development of gas power plants in Norway will be an important complement to our hydropower resources. Gas power will be an important contribution to meeting the increased demand we have had — and have — by power both for industry and for private households. The increase in demand comes despite the wish of the majority to reduce consumption and hope to be self-sufficient in renewable energy in so-called normal years. We have, of course, not been in the Progress Party, but rather warned against this. Another important contribution to Norway as a leading energy nation is our access to renewable energy in the form of hydropower. Here, too, the government has come up with a lot of games that help to weaken both long-term and predictability. One of the examples of this is to remove the system of reimbursement of the document fee for power plants. This scheme was an important incentive for restructuring in the energy sector, and many works are now in the middle of the planning phase. We wanted to primarily extend the scheme by one year beyond the government's proposal, so that we could use both carrots and whips to get rapid restructuring. However, we note that the budgetary agreement with the government parties, the Progress Party and the Right unfortunately did not allow for the continuation of the system. However, we have made a softer landing for the scheme together with the Workers' Party and the Right, so that the application deadline is extended by two months in addition to the Government's proposal. The draft budget for increased electricity and fuel oil taxes was to our great satisfaction stopped in the budget agreement. This would have come to the top of the increased transmission costs that have been notified, and would have particularly affected those that already have the least. So a little bit to our alternative budget proposal. In our alternative proposal for a State budget, we have raised the issue of general savings and efficiency measures within the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the Directorate of Oil and also in the NVE budget. We are of the opinion that there are savings potentials in these areas, which we have transferred in our primary draft budget to others and for us more important areas. We have also cut the appropriations for the introduction of new energy technologies and bioenergy, as we believe this is best managed by the market. We have also cut off the production support for wind power in line with what I initially said about free competition between the energy sources. In framework area 13, the Ministry of the Environment, we have also cut in our primary proposal some areas and transferred money to more important areas for us. We see clearly that there are also great savings and efficiency potentials here. However, we have suggested additions in some places. I want to mention in particular the liming of watercourses, where we are primarily proposing an increase of 25 million. kr, but we ended up at 10 million. kr i plus following negotiations with the Government Parties and the Right. However, this will be commented on in an article by the representative of Korsberg later today. I would like to take up with this the proposals No. 4, 9 and 10 on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e610	The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e615	The Progress Party has consistently argued that entering into, for example, the Kyoto Agreement and trying to do something about greenhouse gases are not too much for them. And so my question becomes the Progress Party: how will they reduce CO2 input? We agree – I think the Progress Party also agrees – that this is a threat for, among other things. the heating. There are, of course, research projects that are quite clear on this issue. But I would like an answer to that. I also have another question, and it concerns the introduction of new technology. Here the Progress Party has cut quite sharply. This has also been done by the Right, but not by the Progress Party. The Progress Party is completely alienated from the fact that, in order to develop new energy sources, it depends on the introduction of new technologies, i.e. on the market, and on having the big bend, among other things. within heat pumps?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e622	I thought it was well known to the representative Johnsen that the Progress Party does not accept this CO2 issue that CO2 should have any impact on the global climate. That I thought it was expressed repeatedly from this pulpit, but then at least I'll finally fix it now. When it comes to the introduction of new technologies, we want to leave this to the market. I thought that was also a matter that the Right was concerned about, but the Right obviously wants to inject money into this and subsidize some forms of alternative energy. We are strongly opposed to this in the Advancement Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e629	We respond positively to the challenge of the Progress Party when it applies to the three oil environments, because we in SV are also concerned about keeping them. So until the problematization and a little bit of what Waksdal from the Progress Party came into his article. Waksdal confirms the fact that there are three parties, namely the Right, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party, which tend to make it difficult to do something about the oil tempo in Norway. Every time someone tries to do such a thing, take these three parts and do something about it, and change it so that the government doesn't get an impact, and that's how they contribute to a high pace and, in my opinion, low oil prices and, of course, poorer environment. There's something I'm wondering about the Progress Party. The progress party is against the climate agreement. They have had a positive impact on reducing the investment in alternative energy; they have had a positive impact on limiting the investment in a few, and they have managed to cut it around. 70 million. kr in the energy budget, approx. Twenty million. kr in the environmental budget, cut the electricity charge and the fuel oil charge. My question to the Progress Party is: Do they now feel that Storting's plurality is heading in the same direction as the Progress Party when it comes to climate policy, that there is no need for a climate agreement – is that what the Progress Party has now achieved? The second question is related to liming, which the representative Vaksdal also had in mind, or the hunter and fisherman interests. In Hordaland, last Friday, 60 000 salmon escaped, or 300 to 400 tonnes. It turns out that such escapes have consequences for the wild species, e.g. lusa. kills the wild salmon. What is the reason why the Progress Party, which is obviously busy with hunting and fishing interests, in this case is well advised not to support its proposal to go in and look closer to the consequences of such escapes?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e640	The representative of Langeland clearly believes that the Progress Party has had a major impact on its alternative budget. I wish the representative of Langeland had been right, but unfortunately that is not the case. The majority are on their way in the same direction as the Progress Party, he said, but I wish they were more. But I see that slowly, but surely they come after us in these matters, as in previous matters. It's not nearly as good as we should have wanted. In the case of liming, on which Langeland was involved, there has been a priority task for the Progress Party for many years. We wanted to put in forces where we see the money can be used for something reasonable. When it comes to the escape of fish, I have to admit that I have not been fully involved in this, but I expect that it will be well cared for by those who have oversight and those who will take care of this, so I do not see the need to implement further measures.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e647	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e650	The policy of the Bondevik government has led since it joined 416 days ago, has shown that we have received a more environmentally friendly government than we have had in many years here in the country. Many long believed — especially after the Brundtland Commission report was presented in 1988 — that the shifting governments of the Workers' Party were at the forefront when it came to promoting environmental policy issues. Unfortunately, it turns out to be wrong. In a number of key areas, the Labour Party has acted as an environmental sink both nationally and internationally. In this period, the central parties were very critical of the government, such as the government. appeared in a wide range of document numbers. Eight proposals from the opposition. There are not all the same number of documents. Eight proposals from the opposition today. Despite an extraordinary situation, with falling oil prices and crown prices, rising interest rates and the need for tighter fiscal policies, the Government has the power to put the environment on the agenda. The government has shown a willingness to give priority to key environmental policy issues, which has given us a new trend by the authorities. Firstly, no to the Eastern region. The government says no to one of the largest natural interventions in Norway, the establishment of the Regional District of the East, to be located in an area of 250 km2 almost untouched by nature. The Committee on Defence, Energy and the Environment shall examine this matter. The Committee on Energy and the Environment will be consulted, but we must note that the Workers' Party and the Right are not even interested in looking at this matter before we are going to give a hearing opinion from the Committee. Secondly, the government has said no to gas power plants. Now the construction of two gas power plants was already adopted when the government joined, but the government announced that it was hoping to manage to prevent the construction of these gas power plants anyway because a message related to Kyoto was to be submitted. And the government has shown its clear resistance to the construction of these gas power plants, and so far we have avoided the construction of the two adopted at Kårstø and Kolsnes. This was primarily due to an active environmental movement, and also threats from the AUF to create problems in the electoral campaign last year, which led to the Jagland government postponing construction start. Since then, we have been given Hydro's plans for nearly CO2-free gas power plants, which have led to further problems for the original plans. I don't think today's business news about the opportunities for less environmental benefit of this option will change anything about this. We cannot ignore the fact that the rapid development of technology is probably a result of the majority's willingness to tax CO2. Norway’s commitment to the Kyoto Protocol has further underlined the need to find alternatives to the construction of the originally planned gas power plants. Thirdly, the governments have been involved in the protection of Upper Otta. The government announced this early, and justified it, among other things. with the meaning of Upper Otta for Reinheimen National Park. Thus, the government has taken the most environmentally friendly option in terms of the Lofast trasé choice, which means the protection of large areas of pristine nature. Norway has about 1 pst. by the people of Europe, but we have 25 pst. of hydropower resources and 50 pst. of the oil and gas resources. We have the world's highest electricity consumption per. population, 25000 kWh per per capita years. At the same time, we probably have one of the lowest electricity prices in the world. I have to remind you that in Innst. No 150 to the Communication on Environmental Protection Policy for Sustainable Development, there was a broad consensus for the first time that the aim is to reduce electricity consumption. This was part of the Workers' Party and the Right in the Committee – i.e. no longer reducing growth or stabilising consumption in the long term, which are the formulations used in previous decisions, now all batches were combined to reduce electricity consumption. It didn't go very many weeks or months before the Workers' Party reformed its vision. So now the government has proposed an increase in the electricity charge. We have a government that takes seriously the goal of being self-sufficient in electricity from renewable energy sources. The government has proposed a significant commitment to an increase of 193 million. DKK in 1998 to SEK 270 million. kr in the Government's 1999 draft government budget. Despite a reduction in the amount in the adjusted draft budget of the central parties, the allocation of the item has continued to increase sharply since 1998, and since 1997 the allocation for the introduction of energy technology and bioenergy has more than doubled. The allocation to an ac is still more than 40 pst. on the draft budget for 1998 by the Government of Jagland. The government also proposed an increase in the electricity tax and the introduction of a land tax on fuel oil. This would stimulate both energy saving and investment in renewable energy sources. Bioenergy would be strengthened in terms of its competitive position in relation to heating with electricity and oil firing. Unfortunately, at least at this stage, the majority have refused to use market mechanisms as an instrument in environmental policy. Nor have the majority made alternative proposals on how they think we can achieve the objective of self-sufficiency in electricity from renewable energy sources. And then back to the National Labour Party meeting. The country meeting has re-examined energy policy and gas power. Two years ago, the national meeting adopted a programme on which the party was elected. It says: ‘The batch will normally generate electricity equivalent to the Norwegian electricity consumption using renewable energy sources.’ It shall be ensured that hydropower, energy saving and alternative forms of energy can make Norway independent of electricity imports from polluting energy production. So now this position is left. Now it is no longer the case that the gas power is to be exported. Now we're also going to cover our own ever-growing power consumption with gas power. As a result, the objective of being able to meet the Norwegian electricity demand with its own electricity from renewable energy sources is also abandoned. This is not an emergency stop in environmental policy, which was the characteristic of the Government's environmental initiative in Dagbladet today. What the Workers' Party has done is not an abrupt stop, it is turning the car around and driving with full gas in the opposite direction. And that's very regrettable. In the case of liming, no government has proposed as much as this. Together with the Right and Advance Party, we have increased the further entry for liming. For 1998, the Jagland government proposed approx. Eighty million. kr, The Bondevik government increased it to 93 million. kr, and the centre lots, the Right and the Advance Party further increased this to 105 million. NOK, whereas it was revised to SEK 100,1 million. kr – an amount proposed by the current government. Together with the Right and Advance Party, we've now increased this to 110 million. kr. Then this government has also set completely new targets for cleaner air. The poor quality of air in cities and agglomerations is one of the major environmental problems in Norway and reduces the health and well-being of very many people. During the winter season 1995-96, a total of about 700,000 people in Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Drammen were exposed to concentrations of suspended particulate matter, increasing the risk of health effects such as respiratory infection, lung disease and accelerated death. It is very important for the population here in Oslo that the Government's action to improve air quality can be put into action – another measure by this government. Then I would like to mention a matter that has not been promoted, but which is mentioned in the budgetary position of the Financial Committee. The members of the centre parties refer to the adjusted centre layout and point out that it has been decided to facilitate Norwegian participation in the Polish Ecofund. This is an environmental fund based on Poland's debt agreements with Norway, which means that we can support our neighbourhoods in Eastern Europe. I must also remember what was said in 1995 by Gro Harlem Brundtland. She informed that it had now come to a stage where it was natural to accept that parts of the debt, which was then DKK 1.8 billion, were to be set aside for this environmental fund, which Norway initially helped Poland set up in 1992. But for inexplicable reasons, nothing has happened before you decided to go in with 180 million. kr, which is 10 pst. of the 1.8 billion. I think it was very bold of the Workers' Party leader, Jens Stoltenberg, to open this debate by characterising the government's environmental effort as an emergency stop. I would like to challenge him on that, when the workers' party's environmental champions in the evening post of 20 November say that the party has gone on a solid defeat, and that the working party now has a worse environmental profile than for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e691	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e694	Having followed the last few years' debates on the Ministry of the Environment's budget, I have to admit that I think there is a significant difference in the way you argue today compared to how you argued just a few years ago. Especially as regards the party that Lars Rise represents. I'm left with a feeling that one has to brag sails, because one hasn't built too little. The first budget that the central government has now submitted has generated great expectations, precisely based on previous year's opinions. And what's striking is that there's no big difference in the budget that the central government is now presenting, and the ones that were presented in the last few years by Thorbjørn Berntsen -- that's almost a true copy. In addition, they have also created high expectations based on the Waxenå Declaration and statements in the election campaign, including: Minister of State Anne Enger Lahnstein stated that the Government would add to a fundamentally different environmental idea than that it had been set up by the previous governments. And what do we see? Well, we see that you've had a more detachment of consumption growth than in a long time – despite Anne Enger Lahnstein's promise that it would now end this detachment of consumption growth – and we're seeing a historic increase in electricity consumption. But what I think is perhaps the most serious betrayal of the central government is, however, what happens to the funds of Eastern Europe. Just outside our own living room door lies the most serious environmental threats, with extensive nuclear activities and large amounts of nuclear waste for which there is no proper storage. So in that area, you do a dramatic cut – in the last round of the comparison with the right hand parts, you cut from 100 million. NOK 50 million. This appropriation is intended to cover the following expenditure: Also in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs they say this is irresponsible. And then my question is to the representative Rise: does he think it is sound policy from the central government to fail those who need the most environmental funds, namely Kola and Eastern Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e703	The representative, Gunn Karin Gjul, said that there is a significant difference between the centre parties today and the centre parties in the debates she has previously attended in this Chamber. Clearly, there is a significant difference! Now we have a government that I described in my post as an environmental offensive government, so it's clear that the tone is a completely different now than when we had the Workers' Party that ruled. It should be a pretty simple logic. We are relatively satisfied with what the Government has made of decisions, and what they have put forward. The first budget, which is now being dealt with, after the Bondevik government got to work on the budget from the beginning, we are also very pleased with. When reference is made to Anne Enger Lahnstein's statement on a fundamentally different environmental idea, I showed in my post that we actually stand for a fundamentally different environmental idea, which also seems to coincide a lot more strongly with Gjul's thinking than that of her own party. And then it's just to refer to what Gunn Karin Gjul says to the Evening Post, which is: ‘I am not sure of the environmental impact of all these measures, but the electricity tax is not in doubt about its functioning.’ And I have to say that when the representative Gjul refers to the increase in electricity consumption and accuses the government of that, I think it is with respect to report that this must also be directed towards the priorities of the Workers' Party. The working party has gone against an increase in the electricity charge, and that is the main reason why the electricity consumption is increasing. [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e718	That's what the representative Rise will get back to. Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e721	First a little reflection: Having heard the representative Rise's posts, I think it was more marked to be a necrologist of what the Government has done than a vision of the coming year. It's probably a bit of a problem for the government, that the transition from opposition to position has also become a transition from vision to administration. One of the areas in which the budget is still committed is Local Agenda 21. Here is the goal of creating sustainable communities where it will grow from below rather than be managed from the top. What we then experience from the Government is that it is not a desire to stimulate voluntary work but a commitment to red tape and the localisation of environmental work related to Local Agenda 21. Of 18 million. kr the majority shall be engaged in the construction of so-called connecting stations linked to the Local Governments’ Central Association. We have environmental bureaucrats in the municipalities, in the county municipalities, in the county district and in the large flora of state environments. In addition, this government wants to build a new bureaucracy linked to the Local Governments' Central Association, rather than stimulating the voluntary organisations and local work around the municipalities. My question to Rise is: Does he think it is good environmental policy in the spirit of Local Agenda 21 to red tape and to municipalise this work rather than to stimulate the voluntary organisations and local work?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e728	First, I want to praise the Right for taking some very good positions. Among other things, the Right has now said that they will go in to protect Upper Otta, at least the representative Sanner has said so. I think that's very good. It is easy to forget in this room that the Right actually was the first party in Norway to put environmental protection on the agenda – it was just to hope that they had followed this even more closely. I also think it is very good with the commitment that is now being shown to act locally. This is the second half of the main slogan of the Brundtland Commission report: think globally, act locally. However, it is clear that work must also be organised locally, and we have seen in several municipalities how important it is that it is one that can coordinate all the voluntary efforts. Otherwise, the so-called volunteer centres are a good example of triggering a lot of voluntary efforts when you have someone who is willing to sit and coordinate the voluntary efforts. I am therefore very pleased that the Right finally joined in a joint formulation with the Workers' Party, which means saving all the positions that have now been created to coordinate local environmental protection efforts. And there, the representative Sanner and the right has made a valuable contribution. But it is possible that what the Workers' Party and the Right did here together, is also hit by the criticism from Sanner that they are betting on municipalisation – otherwise a new word, I think – and bureaucracy. In fact, the central federation of the municipalities achieved what they wanted, namely to maintain the seven coordinators who are already employed and who are to administer and coordinate all the voluntary efforts. What is important is to get both business and non-governmental organisations on the job. And then that has to be coordinated.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e737	It could be seen as if the representative from the Christian People's Party wanted the Stortinget to wave for the environmental effort of the Government. But I think that might forget. Unfortunately, it's not that simple. And the show list that a person is trying to make has to be nuanced on a couple of points. When it comes to shooting fields, the Government has not provided a setting that goes against it. They've provided a setting without taking a position, and there's something completely different. And when it's about liming, one of them has been able to add another $10 million. kr by means of the Right Party and the Progress Party, but it is far from what the plans indicate that there is a need. So there's a lot to fix here, and not least in relation to the Government's basic document, the Grown-up Declaration, because it contains a lot of good environmental policy. The problem is that it is not followed up in the budget decision that will be taken today. There's gonna be a lot of cut-offs on this one. energy research, which is so important, and it's going to be cut on an oak, which is so important after the Adultås Declaration. So this is not going to be good environmental policies. It seems to me this way – and there is certainly the Christian People's Party naked – that as long as one gets through one thing, one can forget all other policies. For this reason, it seems to SV that as long as one receives a confirmation of cash support, one can forget to stand firm in relation to environmental policy. And it disappoints SV, when one saw how offensive the government went out six and a half years ago in the Waksenå Declaration. So the question is: is this an offensive environmental policy we are now seeing? Isn't this a policy for poorer climate, poorer environment? And isn't it just cash that means we can't implement a proper environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e748	Now, the representative of Langeland has also been hurt to deal with what has been the philosophy of the Workers' Party throughout the last year, namely, that cash support is basically the cause of the vast majority of things that are not good in this society. After all, we heard the Workers' Party here in a spontaneous questioning hour explain that the reason for not having a shipyard support is the cash support. We heard the representative Hegna tell the power plant managers that the cash support would be the reason for a strong increase in electricity consumption in Norway, because it would lead to more people staying at home and starting to turn on buttons at home. The cash support would lead to an increase in electricity consumption in Norway. We didn't think SV would join the vulgar propaganda, because we felt that SV was more constructive when it came to trying to compromise on the cash support. In the case of liming referred to by the representative Langeland, the final sum was 110 million. kr, we checked with the department what was possible, and we were told that the ceiling was 110 million. kr. That's what you wanted, and that's what they're working on, asking, so we think this is a good amount. For the current year, the amount was 10 million. kr lower. In the case of shooting range, it was not exactly the wording I used. I said that the government has gone in to listen to the local interests, and had gone in for a zero solution. That's what we've been dealing with for the time being. Then we get back to the outcome of that case. Now both the Defence Committee and the Energy and Environment Committee are to be heard. In the case of the Adultås Declaration, we'll have to do it later.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e759	It is the President's view that it is not within the scope of parliamentary language to call political arguments for vulgar propaganda. So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e764	The right focusses on stable and predictable framework conditions for the petroleum and power sectors. It is essential for Norway to be able to develop further as an energy nation. However, several conditions make it necessary to think through the framework conditions for the petroleum sector: Norwegian pedestal meets tough competition from countries that are now opening up their oil business to foreign companies. The petroleum maturation process can make the Norwegian base less attractive. Several regulatory measures in the last year have contributed to weakening the predictability of the framework conditions. Low oil prices reduce profitability. This is reinforced by increased costs and a very high Norwegian level of taxation. These factors are the background to the fact that, in early autumn, a proposal for the Government to set in motion an independent effort to analyse the competitiveness of Norwegian Sockets was made. Such an analysis will provide a better decision-making basis for government and enlargement when new and improved framework conditions are to be chiseled out. I am pleased that the Council of State, Marit Arnstad, has now announced that the Ministry will launch such an investigation, after the Council of State rejected the need for such work as late as August. But leave it. Right is happy with the new signals. However, if the Government continues to pursue a policy that gradually worsens the situation, little will be done to initiate investigations into the competitiveness of the socket. In the 1999 budget, the Government promoted three proposals, all of which went in the wrong direction: The pointless increase in the CO2 tax that the Government has trodden through in spring was also proposed in 1999, increased capital tax, which increases the taxes of oil companies by several hundred million kroner, lowered the limit for simplified government approval for petroleum projects from 5 to 3 billion kroner. This would lead to more bureaucracy, increased time use and increased costs. I am pleased that the Right and Advance Party, through the budgetary agreement with the central parties, have managed to remove these proposals. The Progress Party has commented on Statoil's acquisition in Saga in the budget position. The right has not responded to this comment, because we initially believed that this question did not belong in the budget position. But when this matter has first been raised, the Right Statoil's purchase in Saga regrets. There has been a broad consensus in Norway that we have served with three independent environments. Statoil's acquisition threatens this consensus, and it threatens the need for diversity and competition. There is little doubt that the petroleum sector is in a period of structural change. Companies go through their own business to reduce costs and some companies consider the possibility of creating cooperation models with other companies. By buying it, Statoil has weakened Saga's ability, while Norwegian society has taken a new step in a more state capitalist direction. I see in Dagbladet today, and we also hear in this debate that the Labour Party is critical of the Minister for the Environment for the lack of commitment to environmental policy. Viewed in the light of the high cigarette orientation especially the Left, but also other centre parties had in opposition, it is understandable that the Workers' Party feels a need to repeat. But I am not so sure that this æ da, be da-kling brings environmental policy so many steps forward. I don't want to criticise Mountains for having scoffed at the most far-reaching proposals and turned on a more realistic and market-oriented environmental policy. But it's striking how hopeless the government's environmental policy has become. Visions are important in environmental policy to give it direction. The transition from opposition to position has also become a transition from vision to administration. The budget includes two areas of activity, both of which contribute to the further red tape of environmental policy. This applies both to the new investment within the budget of the Riksantikvaren and to the investment under Local Agenda 21. In many areas, the right is in the process of getting an impact on the demand for red tape. Unfortunately, in environmental policy there are too many who still believe that the solution is to build up the bureaucracy. We have environmental bureaucrats in the municipalities, in the counties, in the county, and not least in the large flora of state environmental protection. I have no doubt that there is a great benefit in better coordination and prioritisation. It could release resources that can contribute to active environmental protection, to the liming of acidic watercourses, to nature protection and outdoor life, to stimulate voluntary work where one public crown often triggers more private, and not least to have more environmental cooperation with North West Russia, where we know that we will get more environment out of each krone than what we get using it nationally. In this respect, let me point out that in its alternative budget, the budget for environmental cooperation with Eastern Europe and Russia increased by 200 million. kr. Instead of red tape, the central government is choosing to redecorate environmental work: 5 million would be spent. kr from the budget of the Riksantikvaren to employ several bureaucrats in the counties. I am glad that the majority of people today say no to this. Of 18 million. kr, which was proposed to stimulate the work of Local Agenda 21, the central government would have the vast majority of things to go to the central federation of the municipalities, so that they could build so-called node stations. In other words, in addition to municipal and county environmental bureaucrats, to the county councils and other state environments, a further level would be built up, at the central federation of the municipalities. Both municipalities and the state need their own environmental competence. There is a need for an environmental bureaucracy, but it must not be so extensive that it kills rather than stimulates local and voluntary work. The purpose of Local Agenda 21 is to let the thousands of flowers bloom. It is the local and voluntary work in cooperation with the municipality and business community that is central. I am pleased that the bulk of the population has made it clear that the seven node stations that are built should be able to continue, but that the plans to establish another nine have to be scrapped. The released funds shall go to non-governmental organisations and local work. While the Stortinget has discussed the margins of the Ministry of the Environment's budget, there is an environmental time gap outside this house. Large parts of Norwegian and also international business realise that those who will succeed in the future need to take account of the environment. I have enjoyed participating in the Norwegian negotiating delegation during the climate negotiations both in Kyoto and in Buenos Aires. Many have expressed disappointment that they were no longer in Buenos Aires. But then you forget what happened outside the negotiating rooms: in Kyoto, the industry was present, and many had one purpose in their presence, namely to undermine the negotiations. In Buenos Aires there were probably so many industrialists, but this time to show that industry is taking the climate negotiations seriously. Industry was present to play an active and constructive role. While environmental measures were previously considered to be partly unnecessary costs, investment in new environmentally friendly technologies is now under the offensive efforts of more and more enterprises to improve their competitiveness. This is what politicians should address and assess the environmental instruments against, in order to ensure that instruments promote such developments rather than slow them down.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e832	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e835	The representative Jan Tore Sanner touched on our relationship with North-West Russia and our special responsibility towards our closest neighbor. It is well agreed that Norway has a special responsibility to contribute to solving the major environmental problems in North-West Russia, and I note that the majority are trying to comfort themselves that previously earmarked funds are still unused. Does the Right believe that the opportunities to improve the environmental situation of Kola will be increased when it is reduced in the allocations? It surprises me, but I ask the question to the Right: how can the Right defend such a dramatic cut, down to 55 million. In 1999, when they actually write in the cancellation, and hopefully also believe that Norway has a ‘special responsibility’?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e840	It should be reasonably known that the proposal to cut the allocations for nuclear safety and environmental cooperation with Eastern Europe is not the right proposal and that the right is not particularly enthusiastic about this. However, it is within the agreement that the Right and the Advance Party have concluded with the Government, and we take note of that. But it should be well known also to the representative Blattmann that the right might be the party that has given priority to nuclear safety and environmental cooperation with North-West Russia, both first and most. It was then Prime Minister Jan P. Syse who first put this on the agenda in 1990, and since then Right has prioritised environmental cooperation with North-West Russia very high We also proposed an increase of 200 million in our alternative budget. kr for this work, and it is precisely because we know that one penny used in North-West Russia will have a much greater environmental impact than a corresponding penny used in Norway. Therefore, we want to escalate this work, and we also say in the setting that if it turns out that the money that is now granted is not sufficient, we ask the Government to come back with an additional grant. And it's not in many areas that the Right hand is giving green cards to the Government to come back to the Storting and ask for increased appropriations, but so we are doing that in terms of environmental cooperation with North-West Russia, because we believe that it is important and necessary and a good environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e846	I have listened with interest to Mr. Sanner's contributions, especially with regard to Statoil's purchase of Saga. But I still don't understand why the Right couldn't have written with the Advance Party if they really meant this. They have claimed in the press, I have seen that they will come back to this when processing the oil message, but it may be too late. But there is also a difference between life and learning in the Right, as we saw an example last week, when there were production restrictions on the socket, where the Right representatives with blush and blush stood up in the press and announced that this would not be the case, and then later to lay flat for the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e851	The right would have liked to have written with the Progress Party on the comment on Statoil's purchase in Saga, but as I said, or unfortunately, or what one wants to say, so the Right Party and the Advance Party do not have a majority in this Chamber, and it would not have brought us anything further about the Right Party and the Advance Party had written together. But the attitude of the Right is well-known, and we're ready to come back to that issue at any time. With regard to the production restriction as requested by the Government, it is also well known that the Right considers that the production restriction is a poorly suited instrument. We believe that the market should also be allowed to function in this area. And when the price goes down and the cost goes up, it's in the nature of the matter that companies will gradually reduce their output. I also believe that production regulation can reduce companies' own willingness to make such restrictions when countries do it for them. When the Right nevertheless chose to accept production regulation this time, it is because we see that the psychological effect of removing regulation now could have a major negative impact. Knowing that OPEC and others also consider further limitations, removing it could have a negative impact on the market. Right, it accepts, but we added that we empower the government to gradually phase out production regulation during the first half of the year. And that is to give an offer, but also as a warning to others – an offer in the sense that there is the other thing that kisses, Norwegian regulation is extended, and a warning in the sense that if others don't kiss, neither is there any reason Norway should do it. So the right is essentially skeptical about the use of production regulation, but we still believe that removing it would now do more damage than actually prolonging it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e860	The representative, Sanner, has referred to the government's environmental policy as being visionless. Then I see it there that the representative Sanner chooses to ignore the fact that the government comes to Stortinget with a number of good proposals – environmentally sound, effective proposals that are stopped by a majority in the Stortinget, among others. of the Right. I can mention the issue of electricity taxes, which is an important instrument for bringing electricity consumption down – a goal to which the Right has also joined. It has not been as easy to bring the Right to a bet on an increment measure, and now the Right also wants to open up the use of gas on the domestic market. All of this is attitudes that the Right is taking that are out of line with the goals you express yourself. I would like to ask the representative Sanner a question: how did the Right think we would reduce electricity consumption in Norway on this basis, as indicated in the sustainability report, when, on the one hand, we said no to the electricity tax, one is fighting a little actively against increasing efforts on an increase in the use of gas on the domesticmarket?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e869	Let me first make a brief comment: I don't think the list of the good suggestions that were stopped by Stortinget was that long. When I have pointed out that this is more marked by administration than by vision, it is, among other things, In the light of Rise's contributions, which I felt more like a necrologist of what the Government has done than a real desire and a will to look ahead, and how to promote environmental work in the coming year. One of the proposals referred to by the representative Brother Yngve Rahm, who has been stopped, is the issue of an increased electricity charge. It should be made clear that the increase in the electricity charge proposed would have any environmental impact. It must be claimed that it would have any impact on the consumption of electricity. We saw the increase proposed this time as a purely fiscally justified proposal. You wanted more money into the state cash register. That's why there were some problems in the start-up phase of the budget negotiations, where we found that the central government proposed significant tax incentives for private households at the top of the interest rate increase and the inflation that we see will come. The right has proposed to increase the appropriations to an increase of next year by 12pst. It's an offensive and good bet in our sight. We believe that there is a significant potential in heat pumps, bioenergy and district heating. And we also think it makes sense to use gas domestically, especially when we see that it goes to a distortion of coal power and nuclear power imported from abroad. These are measures we think will help flatten the electricity consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e880	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e883	Of course, the Government Party has every reason to be satisfied with the outcome of the budgetary procedure, and perhaps especially in the areas of the Energy and Environment Committee. When the total budget line was first submitted with a tightening effect of NOK 8-9 billion and an unusually large coalition of lots immediately settled behind it, most of the tensions disappeared. The government passed through its policy with relatively small adjustments. So we can slowly ask, as governments often do: what is the option? In the blink of an eye, it's hard to see, because there's something to keep the parties from each other when negotiating something as important as the Norwegian economy includes diagnosis as well as medication. In such a situation, there will be very little room for selection, as well as for government and for opposition. Therefore, the time has not been set for the status of completion of the game's program posts. But there is still reason to note that the central government, despite its budgetary constraints, has been able to stand up offensively in such a strategic area as energy saving. That point has already been made by the representative Lars Rise, but there is every reason to repeat it: Despite the fact that the government had to back down a little during the negotiations with the Advance Party and the Right, we can state that the post office will be greatly increased. From 1997 until now, the permissions of some have more than doubled, and they are 40 pst. on the Jagland government proposed for 1998. Real economics is what happens, not quite big, it's true, too much more is needed to drive large-scale energy savings. And it's not easy at a time of low oil prices. But anyway, the political marking is so clear that we can talk about course change safely. Europe must play a more important role in our overall energy supply in the future than has been the case in the past. It is our clear goal, and it is also nice to note that a solid plurality supports the government’s policy – at least so far. As I said, within a generally accepted framework, the Committee on Energy and the Environment, on the basis of the Government's priorities, and I stress it, has discussed the issue of most of it. Well, it's complicated to read party politics out of the result. On the other hand, it is obvious that some environmental policy issues and problem settings bring together broad support within the Committee. For example, the liming programme is strong, and together with that idea of strengthening the local management of fish and game resources. In the Committee there is a vote to direct money against the intended objectives. It applies both in the field of cultural protection and in the context of the Local Agenda programme. The desire to avoid unnecessary red tape is given greater weight, but that does not mean that we should, in all contexts, recognize the need for new options. In connection with that, I thought that the representative, Sanner, might have led too strong a criticism of the approach taken by the Government. Other consensual views relate to outdoor life, which is now more appreciated than before, and I think it is particularly gratifying that outdoor policy will be discussed at its full width, starting with a coming big-time message. So don't say it's not advisable to think offensively in times of budget rigors! Robbery policy is a particularly controversial theme, with many conflicting lines. The change of words shows that bureaucrats are opposed to playwrights, nature against culture, town against country, yes, here there are also breaks between emotions and reason. In other words, we are witnessing and taking part in an uplifting value debate. As is often the case in such situations, the battalion is quickly turned into a job war, and in the long run it dries on the cancers. For this reason, it is a good sign that a group of committees now recognizes without acknowledgment that the situation in several places in the country is very difficult for both sheep farming and reindeer farming. And not only that, the committee focuses on one of the points where the tamp burns the most, and thinks it is necessary to go through the rules and practices associated with the extraction of pests. This may happen without a review of the whole predatory policy. As a representative of the Centre Party, I have many good reasons to be satisfied with the result of the budgetary work of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and as I said in the introduction, all the government parties can easily join in such an assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e900	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e903	The centre party has previously claimed to be an environmental party. Strong environmental thoughts came from that batch especially when they were in opposition. After being given government power, it is difficult to find the former profile of the Centre Party on environmental issues. Although the Adultåsen document contains a number of good and pious wishes, I cannot see that the Center Party has achieved its goals. Now it seems that the profile of the Centre Party has become a good part away in matters other than environmental issues – I am thinking here of district policy and municipal policy, and I would like to ask the John Dale of the Centre Party: Where does the Centre Party believe that the environmental profile of the Centre Party comes to light through the environmental policy of the Central Government today?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e908	The representative, Torny Pedersen, claimed that she has a hard time seeing where it is from the environmental profile of the Centre Party, but it's a little strange that the representative doesn't come up with examples that show that the Centre Party doesn't follow up on the line that we've set up. There was not a single indication that we would not follow the program that we had promised the voters to be in. I also mentioned in my statement that there are active proposals in connection with this budget, and the initiative of the Government, which is also behind the Central Party in the field of energy savings, shows that we are in the process of resetting the course in a very important area. Finally, I must also remind you, as I said in my first post, that there has not been such a long time yet. We have a little bit of time left before we have to go to the elections, and the time is certainly not at the moment to set up a final status for the follow-up to the program posts that we're struggling to land.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e915	I don't think it's very inventive of the central government just to think about taxes when they're talking about energy saving, and I have the following questions for the centre party, as well as for the centre government: can the Norwegian people feel sure that the centre party and the central government will increase the electricity tax as soon as they can?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e920	I thought I noticed a certain ironic undertone in the question that was asked. I can assure the representative that, in the future, when implementing new additional measures, we will consider both taxes and measures that need to be implemented and which are financed from the State budget. It is a combination of charges and measures that can lead to, and what is our most important task here, is to find a reasonable balance in what we do. In particular, we need to take care that taxes on electricity use are adjusted and also set in relation to the price of oil, so that we can always be sure that we reach the main objective, and it is of course reducing energy from fossil sources.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e926	Since the representative Dale stressed very strongly that the entire committee agreed on the need to stick to etc., it is necessary to clarify that this is not the case for SV. SV has a completely different investment in the environment than the majority have made. Both for liming, organisational support, biodeficiency and the vast majority of key environmental areas, SV has a completely different profile. Then to the Center Party. In the opposition, the centre part ran off with most of the wardrobe to SV, i.e. They basically meant the same thing in quite a lot of cases. Now they're in position. In fact, the proposal for a budget from the centre party, including the Centre Party, was not so bad at a part of the energy fields, at energy saving and at electricity charges. But the problem now is that one has cut down a lot on what could be an environmental profile. 70 million. kr on an additional action is gone – maybe a little less, I look at Marit Arnstad. Twenty million. kr on the environmental budget is gone, at least that's right. Then my question to Dale is: Isn't it a bit tiring that the Central Party's environmental policy seems to be disappearing in a cash support agreement, which the Christian People's Party is burning for? Then I have another question, and it goes on the open-air message, of which John Dale made a point. It wasn't with a special goodwill center that joined SV's proposal with regard to the open-air message, as far as I'm concerned, but now enthusiasm is already in place. It's good to know.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e935	It should not surprise anyone that SV has a little more money to spend on some good purposes and also for environmental purposes. They have collected less money in their overall budget and have so much more at their disposal, so that the representative here argued, was the result that SV does not go as far in tightening up as the other party does. Otherwise, I must say again that the Centre Party has nothing to be ashamed of when it owes it to the efforts of environmental policy so far. This is particularly true in the field of energy savings. Even after we had conducted the negotiations with the Progress Party and the Right, we were left with a result that is best in the year and day, and there is no doubt that the center government here has been with and turned the course in the right direction. It has, for example, As a result, the Labour Party has now, after having been a doctor very low in the terrain for years, gone the other way and is in the hands of several million people, over the government's arrangement. It shows that we have a major impact on an important area of policy, and as time progresses, there will be more new examples of things that we can carry out, or at least speed things up.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e942	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e945	Let's hope that John Dale's hope for the Waxenå Declaration will be a reality, and let me start by stating that the total budget for the Oil and Energy Ministry is 70 million. kr, and most of it is on an island, and on a rental network investment, which I see as an additional measure. When Jens Stoltenberg in Dagbladet today criticises the Government for a lack of environmental policy, it is in place. But when the criticism comes from a working party that recently made a solid right turn, among other things. with decisions on the construction of gas power stations as the worst example, the criticism is becoming unlikely. So Stoltenberg: The basis for criticism is absolutely present, but it definitely goes to your own party, the Labour Party. This is the first environmental government, said the center government on the Adultåsen last September. We can't achieve a policy change in a few months' time, said the government at last year's budgetary procedure, having been in Kyoto with the Labour Party's negotiating arrangements. In the examination of the revised national budget, there was also too little time to do something specific in relation to the government statement. Then came the 1999 budget proposal, and in fact there was a positive element in the energy component, as a little bit of effort on an island, on alternative renewable energy, electricity tax and fuel oil tax, as well as measures to limit the rate of extraction in the North Sea. On Guro Fjellanger's budget there was little and nothing when we think about the starting point: the Adult Declaration. But what happens? Yes, there is an agreement with the Right and the Advance Party that binds the Government to these two parties' environmental policies – whether these two parties have an environmental policy then. The consequence of the agreement is that the small environmental effort that the Government tried to achieve in climate policy mostly disappeared. For cash support, as Marit Arnstad's party is actually opposed, comes before everything. An increment must give way to cash support and support for more balls and gunpowder on the defence budget. The environmental management has made environment a sacrifice. There is no such thing as an environment regulation. There is a cash support agency – that's what we have. No issues left, no one left - we give too much cash, is the slogan. So to an open point. Would it be better with the Labour Party? The answer to that is, we don't know. What we know is that the Labour Party's budget proposals have the same profile as what is being adopted here today, that is, the environment that is losing. The working party is worse in many areas and better in a few quite few. It's hardly a sensation that this is a bad day for us who think that climate and environmental issues are most important. SV's proposals take future seriously and give priority to climate and environmental action. SV invests in alternative, renewable energy both through support schemes and research and on greater energy efficiency to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. SV prioritizes following up the Local Agenda work with increased support for organisations, to speed up the activity locally. We allow the necessary means to follow up the plan for liming and the plan for cleaning up PCBs in Norwegian ports, and we follow up on cultural memory protection. Most of the measures included in SV are areas that are also prioritised in the Adult Declaration. And even if we go further, in practice only SV is following up today's government's declared environmental policy. It is quite clear that the plural does not take our high energy consumption or the growth of climate emissions seriously. Although they are in words some of the fact that the Kyoto agreement is important and necessary and an aspiration for the future of the earth, this is just a word. That's the action our globe needs. Our common globe needs SV's environmental policy and gets the Progress Party and the Right. In this way, the Storting partially ends up in the climate policy of the Progress Party and the Right, and as you know, it is not particularly positive. First environmental management, said the center. Yes, I say now. The reality is that the position is ahead of environmental considerations, and cash support comes first. Then it can't be an environmental reorganization. I'll bring this up with SV's alternative suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e973	The President will remind you that all speeches must be addressed to the President. Hallgeir Langeland has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e980	The need for Norwegian environmental policy is active change and will to move in a new direction. When I mention this for SV, it is possible that it is of little use, because SV now seems to think that it is better to stand on the straight line and make sure that one becomes friendless in the policy than to support the forces that drive the policy in their direction. Enough about that. Langeland and SV do not see the environment policy for just cash support – therefore a little help: The green tax regime is one of the most radical proposals that have been promoted for this expansion in a long time. It came from the central government. On the issue of the protection of Upper Otta, the Government has taken a position on what many consider to be the most important environmental issue in the 1990s. – This may continue, far beyond the time frame for which a reply is given. And then a question to Langeland: is it so that the few areas where he can measure up to a few million in the difference between the Workers' Party and the Centre, suggest that Norwegian environmental policy is served that this government, which is taking new action in the vital areas, is replaced by a working party that seems to want to cooperate so much with the Right that at its national meeting they zeroed out everything that resembles the environmental commitment?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e989	As I said in my introduction talk, there was just a big question mark at the Workers' Party's environmental policy, and I made it quite clear that I didn't necessarily trust it to be better. But that doesn't mean I'm going to have to defend a central government policy in cooperation with the Right Party and the Progress Party. On the contrary, I stand up and say that SV is the only party that really defends environmental issues here at Stortinget. If the Left and Center government had followed up the Waxenås statement, I would have stood here and waved for them, but I can't do that on the basis that they have today. And green taxes – it was a proposal from SV in its time, which the representative Eilef Meland brought up, and which has been followed up. But the results – what are we able to achieve? The government tried to deal with the electricity charge, etc., but it has to seek cooperation with people who can't give it to the majority. Had it been a good day for the environment and environmental policy and the climate challenges, I would have liked to have boasted of the center government. But unfortunately the day is not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e998	The representative of Langeland said two things, first of all, that the criticism that Stoltenberg was raising against the central government today, he had to travel equally to his own party. Nevertheless, Langeland wants us to cooperate with the Workers' Party, believing that the budget would then improve. It wouldn't have been, of course not. And Langeland also knows, of course, that it wouldn't be possible to establish a majority in the Stortinget between the center parties and SV. Before this can happen, SV had to grow some more. So, of course, Langeland makes this debate, like many other debates, a matter of cash support. Then it is natural for a representative from the Christian People’s Party to respond. But my question to Langeland is this: how does Langeland want to give priority to the cash support money, because they are already used up? They're used up by Kristin Halvorsen in kindergartens, they're used up by Øystein Djupedal in education, and now Langeland will have them to meet the needs of the energy sector and the environmental protection sector. What areas do Langeland want to give way to when the cash support will cover all other tasks that Langeland obviously wants to prioritise?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1005	It could be listened to by the representative, Brother Yngve Rahm, who I floated and spent cash support money for energy research and an additional measure. I should have done that, but unfortunately it is not that easy. The money is in another committee and cannot be made available to the environmental measures I work with for SV in the Energy and Environment Committee. So to this with collaboration with the Labour Party. What is important for SV is policy. If there is a major impact on environmental policy when it comes to fair distribution, education, knowledge – the key elements of SV’s policy – it is relevant to cooperation, but it is not relevant to cooperate with a party that is so similar to the Right at the moment. On the contrary, it seems to me to be of little relevance, because they do not have an offensive environmental policy. They have to meet us if we're going to be able to participate in something, but it's very unlikely, based on the political situation and on the fact that the Center Party has committed itself to a cash support agreement with the Right and the Progress Party that is clearly going to end this period. I just want to say to the center: I hope that the center will be able to implement more of what is stated in the Adultås Declaration. We had expectations of that when they joined. I still hope for that, and we're trying to back this up, but they have to want it, too. They must be on what is in this document. There I thought they were doing a bad job, and that doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1014	The President will remind you once again that all speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1017	I'm sorry, President. I'm getting a little excited.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1023	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1026	There has been an offensive in environmental policy since the change of government. New and important environmental interventions have been taken as described in the Adultås Declaration. Then we have had an interesting debate here today, one of the reasons for this. by the Swedish authorities, who say that the Government has not received through its policies in all areas where new initiatives have been taken. Reference is made to green taxes, and reference is made to electricity taxes. It is right that in some areas, the Government has not been joined by the Stortinget, because then one must have with the Right Party and the Advance Party or the Workers' Party. There is no reason to expect this government in these important environmental areas to be able to reverse the Workers' Party in a year when SV has not achieved 20. But what's the advantage of having a government that plays out environmental balls offensively is that we shape the whole debate in society and in the parties in a different way. Let me do an example. I think there's a greater chance of getting a good environmental conclusion on the expansion of Upper Otta, when there's come a no from the Government. It opens up, as we see in the Right, for an exciting debate, and I hope it will give way to those who are environmentally active in the Workers' Party, in order to get an overview of this area. So I definitely believe that both in the areas where the Government holds a position of support, and in those where it needs to mature to get the desired result, it is of great importance that the Premises are a government that prioritises the environment higher than the alternative. Upper Otta has been mentioned. Green taxes have been mentioned, and these are not small things. It was said from Jan Tore Sanner that this government lacks vision, it had only taken over the administration. Jan Tore Sanner was out with a very good article in the newspaper where he thought visionarily around Upper Otta, just as the Government did when it justified its position. It's not administration. There is a new type of thinking about energy policy that can be of great importance, because we got a government shift. That's how we can keep going on in areas by area. The debate on electricity taxes is of the greatest importance in a situation where the price of electricity and oil falls, where the conditions for increased work are lower than for a long time. The framework conditions for those interested in new, alternative energy sources and renewable energy sources are not only the entry in the budget that concerns this, but it is the total charging regime that the various actors meet. There, this government has a completely different and comprehensive policy than the Workers' Party. What is the problem here is that the Right, because one had committed to a set of zero taxes and taxes, was unable to nuance and contribute to the renewal of environmental policy, precisely in the area that it should be possible for the Right to see to matter: when the market meets a cost, it acts in a more environmentally friendly direction. In addition, important environmental measures are included in the budget. The increase bet is radically changed from what was set up by the Jagland government. Then there is another point: even after the negotiations with the Right and the Advance Party, we are now presenting a budget for the Ministry of the Environment, which has a larger framework than the Labour Party. Then it might be appropriate to remind you that the Workers' Party at its national meeting announced that one was willing to cancel taxes and taxes. One was willing to incorporate most of the cash support to get an arrangement with the Right. That would mean spending 4-5 billion kroner on the budget. With the environmental exposure that was at the Workers' Party's national meeting, it is obvious that there would be a large cut in areas of environmental importance when driving this exersis. It compares and manages to get a small plus on a few points in favour of the Workers' Party, is a finished fart between the Centre, the Advance Party and the Right and the Workers' Party's arrangement before one should start on this exersis by cutting billions of dollars.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1039	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1042	The representative Kvassheim is the editor of the profession. Nevertheless, he and Left have an open communication problem. After Kvassheim's victory, the central government has almost revolutionized the country, especially in the environmental field. Then there's one thing that surprises me – and I wonder every time I hear Kvassheim – and it's that the voters don't stream to the Left and the other amazing parties that have been done so much in such a short time. Rather, it is well that when party leader Sponheim says that there is now a calm line to the left, there is a question as to whether there is a whole line again. It might be interesting to hear Kvassheim's explanation of the missing connection between Left's rhetoric in this area and the inauguration of the party he represents. Could it be so simple that people don't recognize themselves? In any case, I have a big problem getting to know myself when I belong to Kvassheim and the version that he gives me. I agree with those who say that one cannot measure the government's environmental effort just by counting matters from the Ministry of Environment. But when you think about the fact that there's only one thing that's going on, up against the rhetorical centre party in opposition, or when you hold it up against the proposals that were being made, or the criticism of the previous environmental government council from the Labour Party for that matter's sake, or when you look at the Left's programme, there must be a basis for asking where it's been from the environmental effort. The argument to reduce the paper usage has not been used. There must therefore be other reasons why there are no other things coming from the Ministry of the Environment. Could it be that realism in the policies of these parties in the opposition was not put into practice? Or could it simply be that the government council of the Labour Party in this area had already done the job before the Left entered the government offices?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1051	Now it is in our political system that the dissolution of the parties is determined by election. Our ambition is that the strengthened influence of the Left in the policy should help us to make an impact on many important environmental areas, so that we can put our weight on the electorate in 2001 to say that they have an option. They have a choice between a labor party government, as Thorbjørn Berntsen said at the national meeting, has zeroed out the environmental exposure, and a government option where there are parties that seem to be environment important, and so important that there must be some grip that can also be unpopular. So what we are doing now of political work in the environmental field and in other areas is just going to be the basis that we can have credibility in politics at the next crossroads. The left cannot come back to the Stortinget with a larger group because we are promising. Now we have to come back because we are an important party, which has been shown in practice that we are taking new action in important environmental areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1056	The left is very critical of the way SV criticises the government when we point out that an actually does not have an offensive investment in environmental policy or energy policy. That left then tries to prove the opposite, now gets to be. But when it comes to the starting point that Kvassheim talked about, i.e. the proposal that was made, I said earlier that it wasn't that half crazy. But very much of that budget disappeared. It was cut down on the increase rate, energy research and investment in the rental network. The electricity charge was gone, and the fuel oil charge was gone. Then to come up here and say that this is a crazy environmental budget, I've hurt to understand one can have the heavy commitment for. One has taken away most of the environmental policy in its proposal. Then I thought it was wrong to defend the bad result. The starting point was not so bad, so the result wasn't that good. So to a case that SV got in the committee, that's an open-air message. After all, it fights the center game against being adopted, but then one stops at it. The fact that one wants to be offensive in environmental policy means that one has to show it in practical policies, in action and in promises. I miss that from the old environmental party Left. I believe the left environmental profile is now falling completely off.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1063	I've said about the Left, a little in the light of recent polls, that we're probably in the paradoxical situation that our influence is time-consuming and the upsurge is temporarily halved. SV's dilemma is that the party's dissolution has been reduced and the influence zeroed out. Environmental policy not only needs those who are well-intentioned, but it needs those who take action in practical policy to move it in the right direction. Now Langeland is putting a perspective on this as if it were a few million in support of the grid. I tried to go up a little bit and look at green taxes, Upper Otta, the environmental starting point for shooting fields, etc. Then what I'm saying is that this government is responsible for a completely different environmental policy than the one we replaced and the one we might get back, with or without the support of Langeland. I don't expect SV not to criticize the government. It's positive that one does, for the government and everyone else needs pressure to move on. But the regrettable thing is that SV cannot clearly say that this government is much more offensive in environmental policy than the alternative. So this is the open-air message. It was quite clear from the beginning of the Committee's discussion that the centre parties wanted the Stortinget to receive an appropriate notification on this issue. In total, we concluded that it could be done in an appropriate way through a wholesale message.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1072	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1075	Let me start by referring to a previous line change with Jan Tore Sanner regarding our relationship with North-West Russia and our special responsibility there. I got a feeling that Jan Tore Sanner thought I was having trouble reading inside. I can read the inside, but it has little purpose to write in positive terms and through cut in the allocation actually contribute to doing something completely different. Then to the budget. The central government wanted to put its mark on the state budget. For the energy sector, an increase in electricity taxes, an increase in CO2 taxes, an increase in company taxes on oil companies, a reduction in the limit for which development projects may have simplified the procedure and the removal of the reimbursement system for document fees. These proposals directly and indirectly affect the energy and petroleum sectors and the budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy. Let me mention the proposal for the removal of the reimbursement system for the document fee. Reimbursement of the document fee for mergers in the energy sector is a scheme introduced in 1986 and mentioned in the submitted new energy law. In Ot.prp. No 43 for 1989-90, where the Central Party had other Energy Councils, the Government writes the following: ‘In order to stimulate associations that can provide energy benefits for better operation and economy and contribute to a more consistent standard of supply, the Government has opened access to reimbursement of document fees by associations that will have such effects.’ The aim of the change has been to contribute to corporate structural changes in the energy sector. The government's proposal implies that 2.5 pst. the book values of the companies must be paid into the treasury by merging and converting power companies. The removal of the reimbursement mechanism will undoubtedly prevent the restructuring and efficiency process in the power industry that brought about the introduction of the new power regime. Additional gains from more efficient units and a better functioning power market will thus be difficult to realise. In its observations, the Labour Party pointed out that the winding-up of the scheme could distort competition. Companies that have come a long way in their restructuring process receive, with the Government's proposal, a competitive advantage over companies that, for various reasons, have been reduced in the process. Much also suggests that we were about to have an accelerated and partly undemocratic treatment process with the deadlines set by the ministry for final decisions on mergers. I have reason to believe that it is approx. 50 – 60 preliminary applications for reimbursement of the document fee. In such a situation, it is difficult to understand the ministry's behaviour in relation to the proposal. I am tempted to ask the Council of State the following questions about the reason: Is it that the Council of State believes that there is no desire for further development into larger and more powerful units, or is it such that there was a need for increased income to the State that weighed the most heavily? We see a development in which the EU electricity market is gradually opened up to free trade, and major changes are taking place. Norway is part of the European power market, and this requires conversion. Mergers and reorganization of the power sector will be almost impossible when it will impose document fees on companies in the million class. Is there any resistance to a more open European power market that is justified in order to abolish the reimbursement mechanism? In the financial situation, the Workers’ Party has proposed to convert the reimbursement scheme into a tax exemption. Pending this, the Workers' Party has set aside 60 million. kr, so that the exemption from charges can be implemented until further notice. The primary point of view of the right was to continue the reimbursement scheme. The right hand and the progress party did something that I want to describe as a saltto with all the screws in the case of the document fee, but they repented a little later. The Labour Party does not have a majority in favour of its proposal, but I am pleased that there is now a majority in favour of the extension of the current reimbursement system and that the majority asks the Government to return to the revised national budget with an assessment of the consequences of the winding-up of the document fee scheme, in view of the opening up of the EU electricity market to competition. The proposals for increased electricity tax, increased CO2 tax, increased company tax and reduced the limit on which development projects may have simplified treatment are all proposals that have either been rejected or will be rejected today. And as mentioned earlier, the ministry has to come back to the revised national budget with an investigation into the consequences of removing the document fee.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1097	Today, environmental protection is being discussed, and traditionally, there is a debate without concrete references. We are talking about green taxes, better environment and increased taxes. But what is the result of the green taxes and the increased taxes? Most people look at the money book, but where does it come from for the environment? It is now building up its own environmental industry. Is it an industry that doesn't pollute? I'm asking the question. You move paper from one village to another, you drive it with trucks that drink 5 liters of diesel per. miles, to Sweden to burn it up – everything in the name of environmental protection. Wouldn't it have been better to burn it up at the place you collect it? Environmental protection is also something more. Environmental protection is about living and living in society. These include: that one should dry to live in the districts, that one should dry to live in the countryside without being afraid that there should be a gloat and eat up the children to play outside the house, or that a wolf should come and do the same. In Aurskog-Høland, people no longer dare even let the children go to the school bus. They have to follow the kids every day. It's also environmental protection. When they go down to the bus, there are often two-three wolves walking in front of them on the road. It is a result of the environmental protection policy and the decision taken in connection with the new report of predators in this house. There has been a discussion about the release of these animals, but no one will take responsibility for it. They have not even allowed genetic testing of these animals to be detected or rejected in the case of hybrids. That's weird. I have asked questions to the Minister for the Environment, I have asked questions to the Minister for Justice, but no one will take responsibility. They're talking about dog-wolf hybrids, but it's proven in breeding that it's not possible to get less than 60 pst. wolf in such a hybrid. It is positive that the appropriations for measures to prevent predatory damage are increased by 5 million. kr, but it is too bad when the farmers and those living in the districts could have done this hunting for free if they had been allowed to hunt in the track snow. I have tried to investigate a bit. There are large amounts transferred to voluntary environmental protection organisations. One of the organisations I've been looking for and trying to get documentation for is the WWF. What do they get? We've written, and we've called. It's hard to figure out. But from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have now been told that these are significant amounts, millions of dollars, of an organisation that is working against Norwegian policy. What I was really going to take the floor for was to talk about coastal mapping again. It is also below the Ministry of the Environment. It's also environmental protection. We have now adopted a new way of measuring the coast. It's called laser bathymetry, which is contracted from Australia. And it can map both the Norwegian coast and the Svalbard area in three to four years just after it's been put into service. But money must be granted. It's a little expensive. But within a maximum of five years, you might actually have done a job that would have taken 200 years at today's speed. We are sailing for maps on the coast today that do not meet the requirements of modern navigation systems. In fact, in some cases you sail over land with the maps we have. Yes, you can experience standing in the Cathedral of Trondheim when you're going to make up your bribe. It's not worth the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1110	For the Progress Party, it is important that public funds are used where the money is the most returnable – where there is a real environmental problem. Acid precipitation is a significant pollution problem in large parts of South Norway and causes fish deaths in many rivers and rivers. When the Government makes a proposal to the government budget to grant 100 million. In the Progress Party, we are disappointed that the allocation will be reduced by 5 million dollars. kr in relation to the last year's budget. There is also a clear breach of what government parties promised during the budgetary procedure last autumn, where a majority of government parties, the Party of Advances and the Right believed that liming appropriations should be made up to the 1997 level, i.e. 118 million. kr. The Progress Party, in its primary draft budget, has proposed an increase of 25 million in the appropriations for liming. kr. The consequences of liming cuts will to a large extent affect the many small and to a large extent hard-based liming projects. We believe this is a totally wrong signal to send out to those who for many years have spent large parts of their leisure time saving water and watercourses and securing fish stocks, thus giving people the opportunity to practice sports fishing and experience living nature. It will also be a good social investment in the form of entrepreneurial incomes for owners and communities, and here I would mention that liming Mandalselva has led to a positive development of industry along the river. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee increased the allocation by 10 million. kr, so that the current liming projects are continued. We are all aware that the need for means of liming is far greater than what we are granting today, and for the Progress Party it will be natural to try to achieve the objective set out in the Action Plan for Liming. Acid precipitation is an environmental problem. What is not a real environmental problem is the climate issue. We in the Progress Party are disappointed with the other parties, who, without cost, have plunged into a climate policy horse trade one does not see or understand the consequences of. There are now more and more scientists and researchers who doubt that CO2 emissions lead to a marked change in the earth’s climate. A recently completed research project at the University of Oslo concludes that CO2 has a less impact on the climate than previously assumed. In previous debates in this room, I have shown that there are many other theories about what leads to climate change and that climate change is something that has been going on and will be going on all the time, no matter what politicians decide. The problem with the climate issue is that concrete environmental problems are ignored, as well as that as an oil and gas exporter we lose huge oil and gas revenues as a result of reduced consumption in the countries to which we export. Norway is one of the countries in the world where the issue of greenhouse gas emissions is most serious in the political debate. There's probably a lot of reasons for that. One of the reasons is that emissions of the so-called greenhouse gases have become a landmark for many politicians, especially here in the house, where one exploits a fear and a wave of mood to mark himself as a politician and at the same time pretends to be doing something for our climate. In the environment movement, the issue of emissions of so-called greenhouse gases has become a good store, because it depends on increasing attention to be given to being able to market itself and thus increase its own revenues. Emissions of so-called greenhouse gases have become an international issue where some industrialised countries, including Norway, have committed themselves to reducing emissions. Climate policy, for which the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is a precursor, is highly debated and currently rests on an incomplete scientific basis. There has also been serious technical criticism of the composition, working form and conclusions of the Climate Panel. The Climate Panel has been accused of being increasingly led by bureaucrats and politicians, where the need for increased appropriations is at the expense of scientific evidence. The most serious criticism is that climate panel research cannot explain the significant changes in climate that have occurred in previous times. Finally, I hope that several parties here in the house make decisions based on facts and not on random weather reports.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1128	I welcome the broad support given to the proposals for appropriations for next year's budget for the oil and energy sector. In particular, it is gratifying that it has been possible to obtain close inter-political support for the Government's proposal to significantly invest in alternative energy sources and energy savings. Under the Labour Party Governments in the mid-1990s, the allocation of alternative energy and increased both in 1995 and 1996 was well below 100 million. kr. In the last year, the Labour Party put in government, they proposed to increase the appropriations by 16 million. kr. It was called a lift. In just over a year, the central government has increased its allocation by 75 million. With the 1999 budget, we are facing a budget of almost 100 million. kr greater than just two years ago. It illustrates the priority given by the central government to this work, even in times of considerable economic downturn. Among other things, next year's budget means that never before has so much been allocated to the development of alternative energy sources. In addition to increasing appropriations in this area, in the last year, the Government has implemented several measures that will facilitate an increased focus on alternative energy sources. From the turn of the year, an investment levy is granted on a number of energy sources, including: bioenergy, wind power, heat recovery facilities and the installation of heat pumps. It will provide better framework conditions for these forms of energy. In addition, the country is developing guidelines for the use of waterborne heat in state-owned buildings. This provides important guidance for the transition from direct use of electricity to heating and may be one of several contributors to the creation of a district heating market. The ministry is now working on an energy message based on the energy investigation. I would like to assume that the objectives of energy supply will be linked to the development of a more environmentally friendly energy sector, secure energy supply, fair distribution and stable business activities in local communities with power-intensive industries. The Communication will focus on the key choices to be made in achieving these objectives. The Communication will also present a proposal for a policy on conversion to more environmentally friendly energy use and energy production and a framework for the renewal of the industrial power regime. During the examination of the budget, a majority of the Committee has decided to extend the application period for reimbursement of the document fee to 31 December 1998. This means that from the turn of the year this special scheme, which only applies in the power sector, has been removed. For all other industries, it is necessary to pay a document fee when real estate is to be transferred in connection with the transfer from one legal person to another. A large number of applications for reimbursement are now being dealt with in the Ministry. With the application deadline for which the majority agrees, it will first be possible to obtain an overview of the total commitment amount for the new year. The majority have also not indicated whether the time limit is to be taken into account by the board of directors or owners. If ownership decisions are taken, it is possible to try to meet the wishes of the majority to apply the scheme for the whole of 1998, while avoiding major shifts in 1999 and, where appropriate, new deadlines for this scheme. The government will otherwise come back with a final summary of the budgetary impact of the scheme in relation to the revised national budget. The petroleum sector is characterised by large and long-term projects. The need for a stable framework is therefore important. At the same time, the petroleum sector has such a dominant position in Norway that it needs to be seen in the context of developments in the rest of the Norwegian economy. The objective of long-term and stability must therefore be constantly seen in relation to the impact of the Norwegian economy as a whole. With the uncertain oil market we are facing today, the industry will face major challenges both in 1999 and in the future. The Authority’s task will be to balance the consideration of an adequate level of activity and to contribute to the acceptable framework conditions for an industry of major importance for local communities and coastal workplaces. The Government has recently decided that in a 16th concession round, the grant of extraction permits will be made in 2000. The scope of the round will be assessed before final publication in relation to the level of activity, and the selection of sites will focus on environmental and fisheries considerations. I expect that in the change of line I will have the opportunity to address further questions concerning the petroleum sector, but all in all I am pleased with the arrangements and support received by the Oil and Energy Ministry's budget for 1999. It gives room both for the bet and for the continuation of the main priorities of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1149	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1152	The question of a new industrial power regime has been repeated in this Chamber for several years. It is of course because it is a very important matter, and from the Labour Party we have been active to clarify this issue. Nearly two years ago, government colleagues from Marit Arnstad ran a so-called rotterace against the Governments of the Workers Party to continue working on a new industrial power regime. Already in January 1997, almost two years ago, Minister of Aid Frafjord Johnson said that the Council of State must follow up the request of the Stortingen and ensure that we have a new industrial power regime in place in 1997. It is, of course, as the Council of State knows, thousands of jobs and a whole range of communities based on powerful industries that have been waiting for a long time for clarification, and it is high time it came. The Council of State was so far concerned with this matter in its submission, but did not provide any assurance on this. My question is: can the Council of State now, once and for all, make sure that the question of a new industrial power regime comes up this winter, so that we can be absolutely sure that something will happen in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1161	I fully agree with Mr Hegna that the issue of a future industrial power regime is very important. It is an important issue for many industrial communities in this country and also for many communities. On the part of the Ministry, we are in the process of developing a new industrial power regime. There is no simple matter, because there will be a number of different needs that apply in the different communities. It is a fairly large power portfolio, and I also believe that with the commercial agreements you have got for some companies, we will now see an industrial power regime after two steps: the more politically specific agreements and the more commercial negotiated agreements. On the part of the Department, we feel that we have a good dialogue with the most concerned stakeholders and with the industry as such. In connection with an interpellation debate not long ago – I think maybe the representative Hegna was present when I said that – I assured the Workers' Party in this room that the industrial power regime is coming. It will be submitted together with the Energy Communication before Easter 1999. That means that if the representative Hegna has patience for four more months, he will see the Government's proposals in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1170	I have listened with interest to Arnstad's statements and noticed that the Council of State skipped a theme that has been the subject of some debate here today. It's about Statoil's relationship to Saga and the purchase there. However, there have been signals from different teams in the Government that one wants to maintain the three national oil environments we have today. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State the following question: Will the Council of State as the General Assembly of Statoil intervene and prevent the further purchase of shares in Saga Petroleum?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1177	Five minutes is short, so there are several things that I would have liked to take up in my post, but on which I did not have time to get in. I'm glad there's going to be a line round, so I get the opportunity to go into some of those questions more closely. It is true that the Government aims to maintain three independent national oil environments. It's also been the goal of the centre party in the past, and we want to hold on to that in the years to come. In our opinion, the purchases made by Statoil in Saga are within such an objective, in the sense that 20 pst. will not be a dominant part of Statoil in Saga, and in the sense that Statoil will not be able to operate in Saga, in line with the 1990 arrangement, as both Hydro and Statoil had significant ownership positions in Saga. When it comes to further purchases from Statoil, I am not aware that this is the case. I expect that there will be a question that Statoil will address with the owner in case. From the owner's point of view, further purchases that go beyond the clear objective of the Government to maintain three nationally independent environments will not be viewed with positive eyes. But I want to mention that there's a dilemma in what we're talking about here: we want three independent environments, but we also want three national environments. And it's clear that it could be a dilemma if one here came into a situation where Saga could be bought up by foreign interests.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1186	: In a critical phase for the petroleum sector, the Government has proposed an increase in the tax of several hundred million kroner for the petroleum industry, a higher CO2 tax and a reduced limit for the approval of petroleum projects. Governments have announced that, in line with the Right proposal and the Right requirement, they will launch an independent analysis of the competitiveness of the socket. My first question to the Council of State is whether a new line from the Government is invading, where one becomes more concerned with improving the framework conditions than with exacerbating them. My other question is in the extension of the question asked by the representative of Vaksdal to the Council of State on the objective of maintaining three independent oil environments in Norway. The Council of State said that she considered the purchase as within the objective of preserving three independent environments. I assume that the Council of State has registered that the company that has increased its state ownership, namely Saga, does not assess it that way. Rather, they have said on the contrary that this weakens their ability to assess other cooperation solutions, and it weakens the independence of the three environments. I am pleased with the signals that the Council of State gave, and I want to ask for a concrete statement, because she said they would not see ‘with positive eyes’ on a further purchase. Does this mean that the owner now puts his foot down and gives a clear signal to Statoil that it is not appropriate to accept a further purchase in Saga?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1197	In order to gain competitiveness first, the Government is concerned with an ongoing assessment of the framework conditions for the operation on Norwegian soil. We've seen in the last year that there has been a high level of activity and a very high level of investment, and we've had to propose some measures to try to dampen the results of just this. The investment deferral must be seen in that light. At the same time, there is no doubt that we are facing an uncertain situation in the future with regard to the market, but then we should also remember that here is a long-term industry we are facing. The price picture we're living with now, we've lived with for 3⁄4 years. Last year's price picture showed almost $10 increase, so here it swings a lot. So we have to design the framework conditions in relation to the long-termity associated with these projects, but also in relation to the more current situation. Let me also mention that investment estimates for the oil sector are uncertain. There is currently no indication that they will fall significantly in 1999. On the contrary, the snapshot shows that one can get an increase in investment of up to 9 pst. in relation to what has been laid down in the national budget. This suggests that we are in an intermediate position in relation to reduced activity and in relation to the very high level of activity we have seen in 1998. But it is clear that we will follow closely the issue of competitiveness, and we will start an investigation work – not related to the oil message submitted by the Right, but in relation to the next oil message. We'll spend a year going through those questions. When it comes to the relationship with Saga, I have to say that the question asked by the representative Sanner is a hypothetical question. There are no more plans for purchase, and if available, the owner will decide on the day on which it is available. But what we see today is within the framework of three independent oil environments. I think one should be careful with as a representative in this room to indicate that we per. Today, there are other than three independent oil environments.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1206	The SV and the Central Party in opposition were often very few in terms of environmental and energy issues, and both parties were often hardworking in the criticism of the Labour Party which did not prioritise the environment high enough. Then it's a little wonder that the oil and energy minister with such weight defends the compromise reached with the Right and the Progress Party, when one knows that many of the proposals from the central government that were positive in itself are gone, or at least reduced. It is the case of the same company, it is the case of energy research, it is the case of investments in rental networks, which have been reduced by 35 million. kr, electricity charges supported by SV are gone and fuel oil charges are gone. Nevertheless, the Council of State says that this is a very good budget – and then all these environmental proposals are gone in this budget. I found this a little complicated to understand, so I hope that the Council of State can deepen this for me. So to what has now happened in relation to the Kyoto agreement and its follow-up. Is the Council of State saying that the cuts that are now under way will make it easier or worse for Norway to implement the Kyoto agreement? And finally, the Adultås declaration has many positive elements. In what way does the Council of State see that it is possible to implement the environmental policy set out in the Waxenå Declaration?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1215	With all due respect, it is well that SV does not have all the world's experience of conciliation, while we in the centre parties know that a settlement involves both giving and taking. One gets support for some things, and then one also has to give on some points. One does not exclude that one has to give in to some points in order to agree. I have to say that I am responding to the description given by the representative of Langeland of the increase this year compared to the previous one. In my post I mentioned that both 1995 and 1996 saw an increase of less than 100 million. kr. From 1997 to 1998, the Labour Party proposed an increase of 16 million. kr, and it was called a substantial lifting. Over a decade, we've increased it by 75 million. kr. The appropriations for alternative energy sources have never been as large as they are now. I do not expect SV to criticise the Government, it has the SV's right to do so, but the experience taken into account in relation to alternative energy, I have to ask whether SV sincerely believes that a working party government, supported by SV, would have come to propose a bet at this level. I'd say I'm desperate. Otherwise, I agree that it will be a challenge in relation to the Kyoto agreement and climate issues to be able to continue the escalation that the central government has now set in with regard to alternative energy. The long-term bet you can make – not just the 75 million. We've managed to do it in one year, but it's a good thing to do in the long term – it's going to be absolutely crucial in this way. That's the government aware of, and we also want to put our further work into energy policy with that in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1224	The government wants to remove the special scheme with a refund of the document fee of 2,5 pst. – I think that's how the Council of State expressed itself. The purpose of this scheme has been to contribute to corporate structural changes in the energy sector. The removal of the reimbursement mechanism will undoubtedly prevent the restructuring and efficiency process in the power industry that brought about the introduction of the new power regime and that the Central Party at that time really wanted. We see that there can be a distortion of competition, because companies that have come a long way in the restructuring process get an advantage, as opposed to those that have been reduced in the process. We have also seen that this can lead to an undemocratic treatment process because these are short deadlines. I tried in my post to ask some questions to the Council of State, and I repeat them now: Is it so that the Council of State believes that there is no desire for further development to larger and more powerful units, or is it such that there was a need for increased income to the State that weighed the most heavily? We are seeing a development in which the EU electricity market is gradually opening up to free trade and major changes are taking place. Mergers and reorganisations in the power sector will be almost impossible when it will impose document fees on companies in the million class. Is there any real opposition to a more open European power market that is the reason for the repeal of the reimbursement mechanism?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1232	I noticed that the representative Blattmann took up his post. It was shown that this was introduced in the context of the Energy Act and the opening up of energy markets. That's right. It was meant to help with the conversion. Now this transition period has lasted seven years – seven years since the Energy Act was introduced. The question is how long does the conversion period last before a normalising conditions and introduces the same power industry scheme as that applicable to all other types of transitions from one legal person to another? It is not the case that all other sectors of society are free to pay a document fee. The document fee is a general scheme which is initially payable by everyone, but where the power industry has an exception. That exemption has been justified for reasons of conversion. Now it has been such a long time that the government saw it as most useful to normalize the conditions for the power industry as well. At a time when the financial framework is tight, I must also admit that it must be justified to have a discussion on whether this is the right way to give priority to the use of public funds.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-07.ana.ud2131e1237	The cord shift is over. The same is the regulatory time of the morning meeting. The meeting was cancelled, and a new meeting was set at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
