ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e50	The representatives Anneliese Dørum and Erik Dalheim, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e61	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e66	I suggest Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e71	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt is proposed as president. Other proposals are not available, and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. The representative of Steinar Bastesen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e76	I have the pleasure of making a proposal to amend the regulation on the obligation to use pilots in Norwegian waters and fairways. In short, navigators on the Norwegian coast should be able to speak Norwegian or Scandinavian.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e81	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning's meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15.00, until the current map has been processed. No objections have been raised against this. It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 4 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e126	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 40 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 60 minutes, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party 25 minutes each, the Right 20 minutes, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes each, and the Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by main speakers for each group of parties and five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e135	The central government's proposals to the budget for the transport sector were basically one that could be expected. The right had a little hope of reconciliation from among others. In the spring of 1997, roadside treatment was to be screened, but we did not have much hope at all. After the presentation of the year’s budget, the parties to the centre are back to the ‘normal’. This year’s draft budget recycles what marked the same batches in the previous period on the Stortinget – a general down-priority of transport and, in particular, the road sector. The positive goodwill in the spring of 1997 was probably situational. The biggest choice was, as you know, only three months ahead of time. The central parties justify this year’s budget for transport because the economic situation leads to a narrowing of the Norwegian economy. The right agrees that there needs to be a balanced cooling down, but this could have been done in a much better way than what the central parties proposed. The right is pleased that we got rid of this decade's biggest tax increases, but we are sorry that the transport sector was already one of the losers at the time of the presentation of the budget. In the right, it is considered that it would have been possible to add to a budget in a different way and by giving greater priority to the transport sector. The Center Administration has selected another solution, including: to distribute 300 million. kr – a district package – in all departments. It's a nice "Christmas present" to all the state councils. They can now travel around the country and distribute their assigned Christmas packages. Right has no faith that there will be any measurable effect of this effort. The right considers that one would have much more left for the funds if they had been used collectively in the transport sector. Then it would also have been possible to fulfill parts of a previous wish from the center parties, among others. to secure cover on national roads in this country. Rehabilitation of bottlenecks on national and county roads could have improved accessibility and thereby reduced the transport costs of rural areas. But no, it wouldn't be the center parties. I noticed that the central government is still ringing around the famous Raumaban night and night. In a situation where the transport sector is screaming for resources, this becomes a most strange priority, and even more strange when censuses show that the number of passengers with the night train has dropped by 12 pst. from 1997 to 1998. These funds should have been redispatched and used for something more reasonable. It's actually going to be 8.6 million. kr as this measure costs is above twice what it would have cost to maintain, for example, operations at Leirin Airport if a priority was given to this project. This is just to show that you could have had room for action, but then a had to have a willingness to go through your own priorities critically and perhaps also admit some previous error priorities. The last one, as we know, is not easy. For several years, the right has been concerned with the need for structural changes in the transport sector, both in order to make it easier for sectors to adapt to fluctuations in the annual budgets and in order to re-prioritise the sectors if this proves to be the case. Such structural changes have not been passed on to the right. In the 1999 budget, we see the result. This indicates that there are 800 million missing. in the road sector in order to operate effectively. elsewhere, the need for better efficiency in the same sector is underlined. In fact, in this year's budget, a straight line is being made for the road sector to operate inefficiently. In this picture, the increase that has taken place on the road investment side through re-priorities in the Committee within the framework will be only a modest contribution. A desire of the centre parties to prioritize the road sector should have had the natural consequence that a person also started work to dismantle the state road system in order to ensure adaptation to the resource situation. The right sees the need for such a discussion regardless of the resource situation, but of course it has reinforced the need. Such a review should also address the issue of a real need to have production departments in all sectors, both in the railway works, in the State Road Administration and in the Coastal Works. There may be grounds for considering whether some can be merged in order to achieve greater flexibility. The right is willing to discuss all such solutions. Right-wing calls for this work to be started as soon as possible. In this context, the right will also point to the recent report by the Norwegian Shipowners’ Federation on tenders in the ferry sector. The report makes it visible that, by making use of tenders, a significant economic or quality gain can be made. Right will also encourage the central government here to review today's systems critically. Other speakers from the Right will go into more detail as regards fishing ports, rail and aviation. Therefore, I will not mention these much more in my post. I'm going to spend the last few minutes on the other two propositions, St. pp. No 27 and St. Prp. No 5, which shall be dealt with at the same time as this budget. In St. prp. No The Committee shall be briefed on 27 issues, inter alia: on the transmission by the NSA of invoices from 1997 to 1998. This matter lies within the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. I should therefore like to leave it, but I would nevertheless like to stress that the Right considers this to be critical. Criticism is also found in the use of the 1998 euro area euro area allocation. There was a lot of noise around the tilting train case in the 1998 budget. There was no way of lifting breaches and the difficulties that would be imposed on the NSB if not all of these funds were allocated. The case was further stepped up through the revised national budget — and an almost equally high level of noise — where an additional allocation was granted approximately. Seventy-two million. kr for this measure. Afterwards it turned out that the money was not used for this purpose, but among other things. to cover unpaid invoices from 1997. I actually think it's about time for a real clean-up. It must of course be that the Storting knows at all times what a person grants money for, and that the funds go there as well. It cannot be that the sectors are allocated funds, and then they use them as they wish. It can't be like that. Another area where there is time for cleaning up is inside the hood. 1066 The Lot Service, as the case is now presented in St.prp. No 5th@item: The right has for several years pointed out the seriousness of the cost developments in this monopoly area. It may seem that it is in the loosing service that the most extreme expression of the link between monopoly and the principle of self-financing is seen. The costs go to heaven, and the fees go up about every six months. It is serious for an industry which the majority of the Committee on Transport has consistently pointed out must have predictable framework conditions and similar to those of other modes of transport. This has been stressed over and over again to ensure a form of transport that is in many cases very, very environmentally friendly. Here, too, a proper clean-up must be carried out in the coming time. With this I address the proposals that the Right has in the budgetary position, alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e175	Oddvard Nilsen has addressed the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e180	The right criticises the road movement of the centre batch. The right criticises the port operations of the centre party. The right will remove the seat charge. But the right has made a compromise in the financial position, where next year the appropriations for the transport sector will be less than what the Government proposed, and less than the Workers' Party's alternative proposals. The right has reached an agreement in the Transport Committee where next year road investment will be 130 million. kr lower than proposed by the Workers' Party. The right has reached a settlement in the Committee on Transport, where port investment is identical to the Government's proposal and lower than the Workers' Party's proposal. And the right has entered into an agreement to continue the seat fee. They will vote against the Workers' Party's proposal to remove the seat fee. In the same way as in 1998, the Right assumes responsibility for the 1999 Commercial Budget which is actually adopted and which, in relation to the Right Programme and the Right Declarations in the Storting, has a significant deviation from the main proposals presented by the Right. It has been said that the Right is the budget winner in the course of the year’s budgetary procedure in Stortinget. It may be tempting to ask the representative of Nilsen whether this also applies to the transport sector. Where in the transport budget that is likely to be adopted today, do we find the Right profile? Where in the transport budget that is likely to be adopted today, do we again find the Right's desire to increase road investment, increase port investment and remove the seat charge?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e191	I actually also said in my post that it might be desirable with greater resources for the transport sector, and that it was also Right's wish. What is important in this context is also to emphasise that we were then able to see what was very important to us in a national context, namely to remove the significant tax increase contained in the budget, which we believe would also have a major negative impact on the transport sector as a whole. But I will honestly admit that I was sitting in the Committee for a long time wondering which of these two budget proposals – within the framework appropriations – was to be approved, either by the Labour Party or by the central parties. I honestly admit that it was something I sat down for a long time and wondered about. I came to the seventh and last time that there was a difference between shaving and cutting off my head, and it was the choice that decided what Right had to do. The working party has removed 260 million. kr from road maintenance and that part. I think that's quite dramatic, and I think it would have quite a lot of consequences. It is true that there was also some reduction in the road sector in the Right’s proposal for a cut, but far from so much. But what we managed to do was transfer some fresh funds to investment in the road sector, which I think is going to be incredibly good. I actually think you're being honest and honest, and you see that you'll get more money left for the investments that were put in there than you'd get for the ones where they were originally. So you have to make such a total balance, and then you found out that the best thing in this situation was the budget that was submitted from the centre. But I honestly admit that I would like to see the transport budget strengthened. In fact, I also believe that, through the Committee's budgetary procedure, we succeeded in making the priorities that the Right had focused on, namely increasing the priority of road investment. We did, and the real increase in the road sector was not within the Workers' Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e200	The representative, Oddvard Nilsen, would have preferred a different budget for transport. I would probably have, too, if the economic circumstances had been right for it. Had the budget frameworks been completely more liberal, I would have liked to have seen more money for transport purposes, not least to have better progress in some ongoing developments. But now we don't have any more money in a budget where it was to be tightened up. After the negotiations were over at the Prime Minister's office, there was no more money for transportation. It moved to NOK 6 billion, and if one of the negotiating partners, for example. Right, had prioritised traffic high enough, there would probably have been an increase in this area as well. But now it wasn't like that, and then Oddvard Nilsen chooses to take care of the district effort of this government. It is no new thing that the Right attacks the district bet and the district bet. The same thing as, for example, are to be cut here, e.g. increased funding for the State Food and Rural Development Fund, which is the engine of industrial development in District Norway. I don't see it as any special marking for certain state councils, I see it as strongly wanted by the Right representatives out in District Norway. Then it's the allocation to the railway it's to be cut off, and the tilting process that's being attacked. Everything that is allocated to tilt trains in this year's budget is going to be used for tilt trains. There is reason to rejoice that the Right Party and the Advance Party chose to find a solution together with the Government Parties, both an overall solution and a solution in the Committee on Transport. However, I would like to ask the representative, Mr Oddvard Nilsen, whether they will also put tax relief ahead of the purpose of transport in order to achieve their final priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e209	In politics too, it is sometimes a little important to ‘be a little honest’, and the representative, if you ask, knows very well that there was only one party that fought for the road sector in all the negotiations. There was no fighting from the centre parties in the negotiations on the road sector; there was no fighting from the Progress Party in the negotiations on the road sector; it was exclusively from the Right. And here you also find the explanation that we didn't get there. But to turn it – let's say – the argument opposite and say that it's the Right that has failed, it's quite daunting. The truth is, there was no willingness of any other party to prioritize a crown on the road sector. That's the truth, and the representative Sahl knows that very well. Then I must ask the representative of Sahl to read the budget of the Ministry of Local Affairs. On page 104 at the bottom of the last paragraph, it says that Oddvard Nilsen has distributed 300 million. kr to all departments, including from 5 to 35 million. kr as a district package. In my opinion, it is nothing but so-called Christmas packages. Then you can travel around and distribute these. I sincerely believe that the 300 million could have been much better spent in District Norway in the transport sector. I have not yet experienced on my travels that there are some in District Norway who are coming to ask me about subsidies. They ask for conditions of competition relating to transport, which enable them to compete. They're not asking about subsidies, they're asking for a level playing field, they're going to do it on their own. And I expect that the representative Sahl has also discovered along the way. In the case of the tilting train, Oddvard Nilsen has not said anything negative about it. What Oddvard Nilsen has criticised is that you haven't spent the money on incubation trains, and that's something else.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e221	I assume that the representative of Nilsen has checked what he has been participating in today's television, that it was not a purely media show, and that he can review this from the pulpit and explain to us what the money has been spent on. I don't think the Right had such a hard choice in the Committee on Transport. As long as they got a budget proposal where they could cut on big cities and railway bets, it's mostly for the Right, so that didn't make the Workers' Party's proposal so interesting to them. When the representative Nilsen talks about district bets, I agree with him that making a district package doesn't just help. But the district package can also be a good tool. But it is clear that I am not able to find any district profile in the transport budget that the Right ended up with in the Committee either – far from it. The right has been involved in a transport budget that is the worst for District Norway in at least the last 15 years – probably in the post-war period, and especially for the part of the country from which I come, which is now at the very bottom of investment in the transport sector. And that's what the representative and the right has been on, so I don't think they're going to talk so much about district policy. And we have something else in District Norway, which has actually been a Right cause in its time: the so-called Chicken Markets, i.e. the Short Path Network. Here the representative Nilsen has joined in and accepted that when you get a better capacity in Sogn and Fjordane and on Helgeland by getting an extra plane, those who use the planes there must have a double price increase. They shall not only have the increase in prices contained in the contract, they shall receive a double increase in prices. And that's what Right has been on, so I think the Right should step down to talking about district policy, for everything in this budget that is district enemy, Right has been on.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e235	Firstly, it is often that the difference between SV and Right is that SV may have something more money – and sometimes much more money – than Right. We agree that the situation in the Norwegian economy meant that the budget had to be reduced this autumn, and we also agreed to the overall reduction. While SV, as I see it, might have a different view of it, and thought you could consume more resources. Therefore, when we were assigned our framework, we unfortunately had to do re-priorities within our own framework. We did not have as much money as SV meant. That's why instead of my introduction, I was briefed that we thought that the priority that has been made for the districts could have been done in a much better way by not distributing the funds into the small sums that I mentioned, but putting them into the transport sector. Then I think we could have done a lot more, and I still do. It also means that we have a district package. But there is a difference, because very many in the Storting – and maybe SV too – tend to give selective support measures to the district in the belief that we politicians know so much better than anyone else what it is that we should bet on both now and in the future. I think one goes through history and sees, our priorities have largely not been successful in reality. That's why we think it's more reasonable to give general framework conditions that reach everyone. And the transport sector is just like that. It doesn't favor anyone, but it allows for more opportunities for everyone. And when one sees that Norwegian logistics costs are 50 pst. over other countries with which we are going to compete, there may not be any other area that means as much as getting better transport opportunities, including for District Norway. In fact, the small bridge that cannot withstand the width of the car, and the bridge that does not withstand the axle ton load, is what determines the load size. This means that transport costs are increasing in District Norway, and it cannot afford District Norway in a world where competition is increasing. So the difference between SV and Right is simply that we have a different perception of how the support to the districts is to be given. We want to give general support, not selectively.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e244	A misunderstanding, President!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e250	It will be recommended by the President, Inge Myrvoll, to take up his post. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e255	The government has provided a budget in which national road investment is cut by 10 pst. When we dealt with the budget for transport last year, with a huge lifting breach in the railway sector, the VG wrote that the handling of this matter by the centre parties – in conjunction with the right and right support parties – is a demonstration of political infidelity! The claim can now be repeated. When the Workers' Party presented its proposal for Roadmap in the spring of 1997, the Centre's trade union spokesperson said that the Government went «backward into the future». The proposal reinforces the Government’s – i.e. the Workers’ Party Government – ‘destruction of District Norway...’. Now the Bondevik government has submitted a budget with a lower frame than the road map. But the center went so much further. The Central Party and the Christian People's Party joined forces with the Right in a promise that the road map would increase by 5,300 million. In addition to the proposals of the Workers' Party. During the presentation, the then head of the Committee on Transport said: «We believe this is a good thing in the election campaign». According to the Evening Post, he stated that ‘the proposals submitted are binding on the four parties and that they will promote the increase in the treatment of the State budget by the Stortinge each year.’ Yes, that was probably a good thing in the election campaign! Unfortunately, the promises were not kept when the central parties entered the government offices. They were also not held when the Right and Advance Party made a settlement with the Government. They weren't held last year. At that time, however, the main speaker of the government party assured that: ‘we aim to ensure that investments for both rail and road purposes will rise to the level for which we were in favour of the treatment of the railway plan and the Road and Road Road Road Road Plan’. The vice-president of the centre party confirmed this at the latest this summer. Then we get the budget with a cut of 10 pst. It's political adultery, as VG called it last year. It is not surprising that the Prime Minister receives letters from the rapporteurs in his own country, where they demand that the Government and the Stortinget stand by the promises. Yes, the rapporteurs say that they ‘will no longer be fooled’. And please, don't blame the economic situation! It was precisely for the sake of pressure in the Norwegian economy and the desire to give priority to the elderly and health that the Workers' Party presented a plan with these frameworks. It knew the Christian People's Party and the Center Party – yet they promised much more to get some extra votes in the election. I don't have any trouble understanding that the third conciliator, Right, is responding. I see that the right is following up the promises in its alternative budget proposals. However, it is of little use when the Right is included in the settlement where the entire Right Transport Profile is deleted. The Progress Party, the Right and the Government Parties have concluded an agreement in which they reduce the appropriations for the transport sector in line with the Government's proposals and with the proposals of the Workers' Party. It is disappointing and surprising that the Right Party and the Advance Party, which so strongly criticises the government's campaign, will today be the ones that secure a majority for a 130-million-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion- paper. kr less for national road investment than proposed by the Workers' Party, and SEK 12 million. kr less for port investments than the Workers' Party proposes. It is also the Right Party and the Advance Party that have ensured a majority in order to continue the seat charge on air travel. The working party went in to wind up the fee. The working party is concerned that the Government is proposing a further reduction in the progress of road projects under way. Extended construction time leads to increased construction costs. The scheme of the government therefore means that projects are becoming more expensive. To some extent, the government seeks to compensate for this by speeding up the toll companies’ access to the toll projects. However, this leads to an increase in the country’s commitments in the coming years. The Labour Party will warn against too strong commitments to future road budgets, as we did in the previous period, when the opposition parties at that time gave start-up appropriations to many installations and to that tied up future budgets. That is why we also believe that there must be a restrictive line with regard to the shooting. The working party believes that the most rational progress of road projects is to be achieved. We are therefore proposing to increase national road investment by 260 million. kr in relation to the suggestions of the Government. The Workers' Party also proposes increased investment in fishing ports. This, together with the reserves contained in the Government's proposal, allows for the implementation of some of the port facilities, the port improvement projects and the grants to port facilities listed in the Labour Party Government's 1998 budget proposal but not implemented by the new government. It is not satisfactory that a deviation is made from the priorities presented to the Stortinget, without the Stortinget being first informed of the matter. For the port area, a majority of the Committee has made clear and important comments on future budgetary work: A review of the organisational and management system of ports is being accelerated. There is a need to review and streamline port services. The Ministry is asked to submit the follow-up to the Committee on the Coastal Works' Committee's position before the Storting at the latest in autumn 1999. In the revised spring budget, the Government shall submit proposals for the allocation of the port development chapter into one investment item and one for operation and maintenance. A distinction between large and small projects shall also be considered. The model of priority for port and fairway actions shall be assessed and presented to the Stortinget. A system shall be established in which port and fairway projects of a certain size are submitted to the Stortinget in the same way as road projects. The Ministry's own description of the situation in the fireworks service is serious. The Ministry is therefore asked to facilitate a review of the quality of the fireworks service as soon as possible and to submit it to the Stortinget at the latest in the budget in autumn 1999. The Committee would like to see external trade unions used, for example: company carrying out quality assessment and certification. The Committee is concerned about the poor financial management of the pilot service and will come back to it, both in the context of the notified wholesale notification and in the follow-up to the Coastal Works Committee. These are, individually and collectively, important and critical comments from a majority of the Committee. I would therefore like to stress that the processing of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection will be attended with great interest. In 1998, significant innovations have been achieved in the provision of transport services. Oslo Airport Gardermoen was opened on 8 October and has clearly started in a very satisfactory manner. And not least the Gardermoban — the flight train — has been put into service. In advance, the press had predicted that this was a train hardly anyone would take. And so it was that people wanted to take the course. It's been a success. It already has a market share of 38 pst. The pre-construction estimate was that it can achieve 42 pst. However, the provision of travelers will be clearly improved when the sport of Rome can be put into service. The Workers' Party has always agreed with the Government that, as far as practicable, conditions in the East have been brought back to the state before the water level sinking started. The working party has assumed that it is the Government and the departments concerned that have to assess the choice of the sealing method and the limits of leakage. I have noticed that in the near future the government will decide on an application from the NSB Gardermobanen AS for a change of the current concession terms. I assume that the Government in its assessment weighs the environmental objectives of which there is a broad consensus, and the relationship between the costs and the effects of further sealing. A broad majority of the Committee sees it as very important to put the sport of Rome into practice. The success of the Gardermoban shows that the renewal and improvement of the rail offer carries opportunities for increased rail transport. It is therefore important that the organisation of new heel trains and the work of the NSB for increased safety, punctuality, capacity and reduced travel time continue with full force. It also shows that it is possible to relieve the road system by developing collective transport solutions. In its draft budget, the government stressed the need to strengthen public transport in major cities. With the draft budget presented today, the result is the opposite. Less collective action is granted in 1999 than it was in 1998. So we can also ask: What profile does this year's budget for transport have? National road investment has been substantially reduced. The Labour Party suggests a higher level but is downgraded. Grants for collective actions in major cities will be lower than this year. The Labour Party suggests a higher level but is downgraded. Grants for roadside projects will be lower than this year. The Labour Party suggests a higher level but is downgraded. The budget agreement within the Committee provides an additional 50 million. kr less for the railway. The Labour Party suggests a higher level but is downgraded. The working party suggests increased investment in fishing ports, but will be downgraded. The operating fee shall be continued. It means higher prices on air travel. The working party votes in favour, but will be voted down. The Government is required to prepare for the privatisation of Telenor. The working party votes in favour, but will be voted down. After the central sections entered the government offices, 285 post offices were added. Purchases of postal services in the districts are less granted next year than this year. This means that more post offices are closed than they would otherwise be. The Labour Party suggests a higher level but is downgraded. But, we will be assured that next year the promises will be kept!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e362	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e365	First, I want to say that I agree with part of what Schjøtt-Pedersen says. There were strong words he used against the Right and the Center on the road appropriations. We've heard those promises before, and as I said, both the Right and the Center have gone against them. But the Workers' Party isn't exactly much like it. They've always prioritised money to the railway without taking the least account of the market or people's need for transport, but that's despite all the ways people use when they're going to this country. And as it is today in this long country, which is weathery and snowy, the problems will tower up in winter. To all areas of the country, whether it's city or branch, there's at least one way. The quality we can probably agree on is different, but the operation and maintenance of this long-range network costs a lot, and today it is getting too little money in our opinion – especially with regard to winter maintenance. How does the Workers' Party feel about the maintenance in the future when, in their proposal, they will reduce this maintenance by a total of 260 million. kr in relation to Yellow Book? I can also refer to some excellent articles that have been in Dagbladet lately, which have really focused on maintenance and what it is like to run in winter. Does the Workers' Party really want to close the main mountain crossings? Will they stop breaking and stroking our roads? And how has the Workers' Party intended to maintain the maintenance of the roads with such reduced appropriations as they go in for?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e370	The working party is in favour of a bet on the railway. We do that because we believe the overall transport offer, among other things. on the road side, not only determined by the capacity of the roads. It is important — that is why we are also in favour of a higher level of national road investment than that. The Progress Party does — but it is also important to relieve the road system by means of public transport measures and traffic management measures. Among other things, we are open to discuss the question of road pricing. The development we see as a result of the use of the Gardermoban is an excellent illustration of the fact that we can expand offers that are competitive in public transport and that can thus relieve the burden on the road network. The working party proposes a level of operation and maintenance of roads at approximately the same nominal level in 1999 as in 1998. So it's not about a dramatic change. On the other hand, there is a relatively dramatic change when the Government actually proposes to cut road investment by 10 pst. Next year. As a result, the costs of road projects increase. As a result, speeding up the funding of toll companies increases the commitment to future budgets. We believe that this is very unfortunate, so we have considered together that it was more appropriate to redistribute from operation and maintenance to investment, which means that both of the two items come out with 99.6 pst. of the level of appropriations for 1998.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e377	I will follow up on this with the Workers' Party's proposal to take $4 billion from road maintenance to increase investment. Road investment is important, I guess we all agree on that. But it's actually even more important, the centre of vision and the Christian People's Party, to have money for operation and maintenance. We can take a little comparison: it doesn't help much to build schools if you don't have the money to run the school afterwards. Empty schools don't give much out. I could imagine knowing which part of the road maintenance is going to be cut out. I am aware that something has been said about protecting road safety measures, but in the last year's budget, the Workers' Party actually put forward proposals to increase this precisely with road maintenance, especially related to, among other things. winter maintenance. And it's kind of strange to see that this year can be reduced by 260 million. kr. Is it salting, brewing and littering that have to be cut down on, or is it the ferry offer? Should road capital be confused? Should this lead to a reduced effort for asphaltification, less cannibalisation and lower visibility? What is the Workers' Party going to reduce? Taking away from road maintenance will, in any case, affect road safety, for which the working party is clearly also involved. It's a big 260-million cut. kr, and I think it's interesting for many of us to hear where it's the Workers' Party will reduce.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e382	I think it's important first to clear the debate, so we know what we're talking about. When the representative Kofoed-Larsen talks about a reduction of 260 million. kr, this is a reduction in relation to the Government’s operational and maintenance proposals. Firstly, the majority in the Grand Duchy, which includes both the representative of Thore Aksel Nistad and the representative of Kofoed-Larsen, have also proposed amendments to it, so it is not necessarily the Government's proposal that is being adopted today. But the second is that the Government's proposal for operation and maintenance involves an increase from the current year. The proposal of the working party represents quite exactly the same nominal level for 1999 as for 1998, or to be quite precise – 99,6 pst. of the level of operation and maintenance and 99,6 pst. the level of investment. The dramatic part of the Government’s proposal is therefore not the proposal for operating and maintenance appropriations. Nor do the Workers' Party's proposals for operation and maintenance contain some degree of drama. What, on the other hand, contains drama, is that the government, which is based on parties that have promised to invest in road investments of 5,300 million. This four-year period, in addition to the proposals of the Labour Party Government, comes to the Stortinget with a budget in which they propose a real 10 pst cut. from 1998 to 1999. There was no operation and maintenance by the representative of the Kofoed-Larsen party traps and the Centre Party and the Right were concerned when they discussed the road map, it was the question of which investments were to be made in relation to the development of the overall road capacity. That's where the drama is. Not only do they fail to make the huge increase that they have promised, but they come to the Stortinget with a budget where they actually reduce road investment by 10 p.m., and it is important for budgetary commitments that make projects more expensive. That is what the Workers' Party believes is very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e393	I must honestly admit that I think it was a good attempt by the representative Schjøtt- Pedersen here on the platform, a good attempt in the sense that he tried to present it as if the road sector were strengthened by the proposal of the Workers' Party. - That's not right! The working party takes from part of the road sector and moves on to another, but the increase is actually zero, so there is no strengthening of the road sector in the proposal of the Workers' Party. There is some strengthening of the road sector in the proposal from the centre parties and in the joint proposal from the centre parties and the Right and the Advance Party. But that was not really what I was going to ask about. The working party has 260 million. kr, and the centre and right and forward parts have 150 million. The latter have in one way chosen to put the money on the Council table and say: Use this money as rationally as you can in a situation where there is a screaming need and it is almost $1 billion too small to achieve efficiency and progress in the projects we have. The working party chooses another path. They choose what I want to call the Christmas package system, where you distribute money in the East and West. I might not complain about it when the party has actually distributed 45 million. kr directly to Hordaland, but that won't be right for that reason. My question is quite simply whether Schjøtt- Pedersen sees that by taking money and distributing it into small sums, which seems very random, but it is done, perhaps causing even worse efficiency and progress in the projects, and that at the end of the day you are left with a higher bill, i.e. that you do not get the effect you had in mind. Wouldn't it be better in many ways if you were in a situation where you had 900 million missing. kr, had said: take these 260 million and do the best you can, use them on the projects that are there – instead of sending Christmas presents home? Wouldn't Norwegian traffic be better served with that?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e404	You can discuss which way is the most effective to do it. The representatives from the Right, together with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party in this setting, in the same way as in the setting of the Roadmap, have put themselves on the strategy: none mentioned, none forgotten. It can not only be a strategy to get the most effective out of it, but it can also be a political strategy for no one to feel forgotten about where the appropriations could be used strictly, as they were before the elections, when they presented these 5,300 million and were not listed where they were to be used, but said where they could theoretically be used. Ergo was all pleased. The working party appears to be more tidy on the basis of an assessment of where the different challenges lie. We can here, for example: indicate that the Ministry has forwarded to the Committee an overview of the types of projects lacking funds to ensure effective progress. You can then make a choice and say that these projects are our priorities within that framework, and not only leave the rights, but also the burden to the Government, and say that this is what we promise, we keep it, we don't give money to anyone else, and that they could also get money if you hadn't specified this list. Then the representative shows that there is a net input to the road sector from the majority constellation. Certain changes are proposed within the overall package. What's most interesting about it is where the cuts are done. Yes, there is something more régional investment and cuts in the big city funds, so that the government's flagship project on increased bets in the big cities does not turn out to be anything, you cut into county road projects, so that it is allocated less to county road projects next year than this year, you cut the budget for the purchase of postal services, so that it is allocated to the Central Party's flagships less next year than in the current year. There is also an interesting thing in the majority comment that has been submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e419	The President is somewhat uncertain whether the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen took up the suggestions he was going to make when he made his main contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e422	With the praise the President has heard I have given the Workers' Party's proposal, it is of course a pleasure to address the proposals mentioned in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e428	Then the Workers' Party's proposal has been taken up. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e433	The Transport Budget of the Progress Party emphasises a greater commitment in road construction and maintenance. Unfortunately, today’s road network has become such that it is often inefficient. The wear and tear and poor follow-up of maintenance result in a continuous deterioration in road capital. After all, the passenger car stands for almost 80 pst. of passenger transport and it clearly shows that the most necessary means are road and road transport. Today, the department itself says that we are reducing our road capital by about 700 million. kr, which should be a great cross of thought as to what kind of lag we bring with us into the future. Estimates have also been made, in particular from the NHO, which show that Norwegian industry loses large amounts annually due to the depriority of profitable road projects. For a number of years, transport projects with a miserable cost-benefit have been prioritised and built at any cost. One of the worst of these projects is the tunnel to North Cape. It's so miserable that you now admit that the bomb has to be open in winter because the revenues aren't even enough to pay the bombers. The cost calculation was initially around 600 million. kr. Now we've already passed $1 billion. In road construction, there is a need for a significant build-up over the next 10 years to meet market accessibility requirements, and above all Europe. Strong development of the main road network will not only lead to higher cost-effectiveness but also to more efficient traffic management, less pollution, less noise, greater road safety and better living conditions. I hope the Minister for Transport got that sentence, because that is a substantial gain with a good, continuous road network with good traffic flow. This is good both in terms of pollution and in terms of road safety. The Progress Party's draft budget for road development, maintenance and traffic safety is therefore a total of DKK 10.8 billion. The Group of the Progressive Party has also discussed the sort of priorities to be given to tribal and national roads in this country. Our breeding group has clearly stated that the E6 Oslo route – Svinesund should have the highest priority. A four-field motorway should be built throughout the route from Oslo to the Swedish border. The wondrous species with 2+1 fields that are now being built in Eastfold should be immediately stopped and converted into four fields. This kind of construction does not bring any road safety benefits, on the contrary. In other countries, the extension of motorways is too far off. In England these roads were baptized «Suicide line». With the extra pot of 150 million. The distance Lekevold – Åsgård on E6 can now be continued for road investments that we finally received in the negotiations. It would otherwise be stopped. Further in its priority, the Progress Party aims to develop on the E18 Oslo – Kristiansand a continuous four-field motorway from Drammen to Grenland. But also the section Porsgrund – Kristiansand is important, because there is actually ÅDT of over 10,000. Because of the budgetary agreement and the extra money, there is also the possibility to support the expansion, and in particular the Rannekleiv – Temse route. Furthermore, we will strongly prioritise E6 Oslo – Trondheim, E18 Oslo – Ørje, E134 Drammen – Haugesund, E16 Sandvika – Bergen and E39 Kristiansand – Bergen. The Progress Party will also give high priority to good bypasses around the major cities, so that we can establish transport corridors with a reasonably uniform standard to and from abroad. Nor have we forgotten that there are large production and exports from many sides of our long-term country. We are therefore also in favour of increasing the development and maintenance of roads in these areas, so that transport to the weak points and markets is made easier and fairer. The Progress Party has also spent money in its budget on both racial protection and increased maintenance, in particular winter breakage is an important issue. We in the Progress Party are concerned that the state should organise, while the execution should be left to the market and to the private as much as possible. In the long term, the Progress Party will reduce the State Road Service to a planning and control unit. We believe that both expansion and maintenance can be done according to the tender principle, and we believe that we will then get more money for our money. The cost of sealing Norway’s most famous railway tunnel has become a chapter for itself – no one knows the final sum yet. They have still come back to Stortinget and asked for more money. Now you're actually asking for another 550 million. kr. The sum just for sealing has now risen in incredible NOK 1.3 billion. The Gardermoban debt is over NOK 8 billion. The progressing party says no to the desire to borrow more for tightness, as several reports indicate that further bets on sealing will produce extremely small effects. The crossroads discussion is ongoing and has now lasted for two years. Nor has the Progress Party included in its budget, we have a priority road. So we get the question: will the Advance Party put down the NSB? No, we won't. We are providing substantial funds over our budget, a total of DKK 4 billion is allocated to the 1999 budget for the railways. And I just want to make sure that the length of the rail isn't on so many miles, and the railway stands for only 5 pst. of the total passenger transport operation. But when we spend so much money on the NSB, we demand that they soon be able to serve the neighbourhoods, and then we mean the big cities. This is where the NSB should work. We recognize that the railway has a moustache to do there. In addition, we want to open the web, so that we get competition on this. And I'm glad that the Minister for Transport has now taken our Document No into account. Last year’s 8th proposal to fully separate the NSB BA and the Railway Agency from 1 July 1999. When we had the Document No. The 8-proposal for consideration was not exactly positive in the centre parties, but I'm going to give the ministry and the Minister for Transport a great deal of credit for this coming in now. We also have a number of proposals this time. I see that the central parties have not supported the proposals this time, but I hope that the Minister for Transport will do the like's next time, that he will come back with the proposals in the next round. Finally, I would like to make the suggestions that have been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e480	Thore Aksel Nistad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e485	Before the representative Thore Aksel Nistad swung with the NSB, I thought in my quiet mind that he should be employed in the Road Directorate, this man who has such a good bearing on road planning in Norway. Since the time of Anders Lange, the party of progress has been a party that has been against taxes and taxes. A year ago, I asked the representative Nistad about the seat charge, which had to be paid by the passengers. The explanation then was that the Progress Party would not get rid of it because it was working with the Center Government, and it gave the Progress Party more to racial protection, more to road safety and more to road safety. It was supposed to be fun to know what the explanation is this year, because after what I see now, it was probably not the big breakthrough in the road sector that the Progress Party got. We see that the transport budget this year is the budget in which the Government has cut most, and that is to the extent that a choice is made. But the cut was so serious that it became a abdominal landing for the representative Nistad – at Leirin.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e494	I will admit that the seat fee is not good, I will come with that recognition. And we probably have no other explanation this year than we had last year, I'm going to admit that to the representative Fallet. It is to give and take when to go into debate and negotiate. We had the choice of negotiating with the Workers' Party or whether we were going to be in the center, and it's clear that we got more of the center, we did it. We wanted a lot to do, it's never been hidden by the Progress Party, and we actually got 150 million here. kr more for road investment. If we had gone for the Labour Party proposal, we'd only moved 260 million. kr from maintenance and over to road investments, and the road had then remained the sum of zero. And I would be very concerned about all the feedback I would get from people when winter starts to put in too full, that you don't get broken, you don't get to maintain the road capital, it's wear everywhere. So here it was the balance that we went to the center. But I have to agree with that, the seat fee is bad, it's bad.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e499	For the Progress Party, there is a road, and Road with a large V, which is transportation, 1 700 million. kr more to the State Road Service is a formidable bet. And if we had had the means to do this without cutting in the same way as the Progress Party does in the other transport budget, I would have liked to be involved. But the representative Thore Aksel Nistad said nothing about where he was going to do his cuts, and then I have to repeat it: Coastal administration minus 9 million. kr fishing port facilities minus 7 mills. kr Ministry of Transport, operating expenditure minus 7 million. SEK research and development minus 5 million. kr transport research minus 27 million. kr grants for rational and environmentally friendly transport minus 20 million. kr specific transport measures, charging compensation for coaches minus 380 million. kr grant to Hurtigruten – where we have an agreement and there is a clear breach of contract – minus 80 million. kr Railway works, operation and maintenance and investments in the line together minus 450 million. kr When the representative Nistad says they're not going to shut down the railway, I have to ask: what is the consequence of the annual cut in this order of magnitude for the NSB and for the Railway Agency? Furthermore, payment for postal transport services minus 120 million. kr, payment for unprofitable postal services minus 180 million. NOK, and that's what we could still have. I would like to ask the Progress Party: is it only tribal measures that are transport measures?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e536	It was wonderful to hear a representative from the Christian People's Party say that we have a formidable bet coming. It's not long since the center pieces along with the Right turned up to the big heights about what to bet on the road. Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen was just in on the sum a little while ago, which was over 5 billion kroner. But now all of a sudden the Christian People's Party has forgotten all its previous great promises of bets on the way. Now it's all of a sudden wrong that someone wants more bets on the way. But enough about it. When the question was what we want to do with everything we cut, we're honest and honest and say where we're going to cut, and what we're going to use. We do not do as the Christian People's Party did last – go out and promise everything without having coverage for it. I'm going to show you exactly where I'm going to cut down and where I'm going to add up. It's a little wrong what the representative Sahl says we're just betting on the big highways. We have also added more to the maintenance, we have added more to the county roads and we have added more to the usual highways. So we've gone into everything that has to do with the way. It's true that we've taken the majority from the railway and the NSB, but we think we should be able to fix this by getting competition on the line. Then it is gratifying that the Minister for Transport has already submitted our Document No. Eight proposals to completely separate the NSB and the Railway Agency, because we imagine that in the future we can get competition on the line, and then we think we're going to get more out of the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e545	As the Group of the Party of European Socialists also notes, it is a very tight budget for transport that we are going to adopt today, and it is very important to give priority to the resources available. A ship's tunnel pilot project shall be carried out through the City State. The Government is working on a draft for the project, both in terms of content and organisation, and it has been informed that the Ministry of Fisheries, within its own budget, is making available the necessary funds for the first part of this project. Then it becomes strange that the Advance Party will grant $3 million. kr for studies of the Stad tunnel. The Ministry of Fisheries has not asked for this, and the question is: what is the result of this coercive feeding of the Minister of Fisheries with money that he does not yet need?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e552	It's asking who you're listening to. The representative has obviously gone in here and asked the Ministry, and the Right will then clearly want all this to be done under the direction of the Ministry and the County Municipality. We've been up there looking at this, and we've listened to those in the City Tunnel. They've been planning this almost done, but they're a little short of it at the end. They have also been in contact with Road Deck, which says that they can practically start tomorrow by first building a road for cars on the side. Then they'll analyze what kind of rock it is there, and if it's possible to build a ship's tunnel there. This company has worked for a long time, so why start now under the direction of someone else. I'm very skeptical, and I thought the Right was, too, to let the Public and County Authority do everything. Why can't this company, which is really doing it, be allowed to do it? That's why we've been so generous. There's no forced feeding, it's to try to get a good project done.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e557	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e561	Let me start by referring to yesterday's main headline in what was once the Worker's magazine – now the Newspaper. The main survey yesterday was that the NSB experienced strong traffic growth. It is with great pleasure that I can see that only a little more than one year after the central government took over and the Dørum State Council took over the Ministry of Transport, it is doing better for Norwegian railway and for NSB. I would also like to quote Jan-Egil Nyland in NSB Personal Traffic: ‘We have never had as good regularity as we have now. We've got better infrastructure in the Oslo region and we've strengthened our preparedness for error correction." We said that the government's priority of maintenance was important. So now the NSB confirms that this is right. That's more to say about the railway. First of all, there is reason to point out that the focus on tiltogens is on the track, and in the budget for next year it is set at 310 million. NOK – and thus the sum is up to 550 million. kr. Maintenance is essential for regularity. The regularity is essential to ensure that it is the good offer that it is intended to be. In Norway, we drive a lot on old railways and good maintenance is essential for the old railway to be able to withstand the load of tiltogens. It is therefore positive that the majority of the Committee agrees that the maintenance of bankways should be a priority. When the length of the journey between Oslo and Kristiansand, Bergen and Trondheim gets shorter, the train will be a much more attractive offer, even for those with little time. The train goes from the center to the center, which is a big plus. The train has completely different conditions for passengers to be able to work in-flight than can be achieved on aeroplanes, buses or private cars. And that's positive. For the Christian People's Party it is important to prioritize and develop the railway, where it has environmental and traffic advantages. Let me again highlight the commitment to maintenance. The Government’s draft budget has increased the maintenance funds by more than 150 million. kr in relation to the current year. After the agreement with the Progress Party and the Right, the increase has been reduced, but there is still an increase of more than 130 million. kr. We have found it necessary to make small cuts within the railway framework – first in the agreement between the centre parties and the right, then in negotiations with the same parties in the committee. In the last round, this was primarily about avoiding the majority of the irresponsible proposals of the Workers' Party on very strong cuts in operating and maintenance resources to the State Road Administration. I am convinced that all those involved in the railways and the NSB agree that it is also important to ensure means of road maintenance, which also relate to road safety and road safety, piercing, salting and bedding. The last thing I want to mention about the railway is the proposal to separate NSB BA from the railway station. This is perhaps the only natural development after the introduction of today's corporate form. Now the NSB's conversion period is towards the end. It is also worth noting that the NSB Director and Director of the Railway Agency, Osmund Ueland, both to the Committee and in a television interview themselves have pointed to a complete organisational division. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that, while a liquidating today's system of joint management in the NSB BA and the Railway Agency, there will still be a great need for coordination between operators and the Railway Agency in order to maintain the dependency related to the organisation of infrastructure and traffic on the track. I'm pleased that there's a majority for these organizational changes. So to the road sector. I am very pleased that we have avoided a majority in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal to cut down so heavily on operating and maintenance. The price we had to pay to avoid this cut was high, and I was actually for a while in doubt if the cuts were to live with. But the option, a majority that might have taken more than a billion dollars from maintenance, was, after all, far worse. There is still an increase in operation and maintenance of approximately 190 million. kr, and it is important to be able to continue the standard, to strengthen road safety and to maintain road capital as far as possible. It's not just the Right that sometimes faces difficult choices, and Petersen described it earlier as the choice between plague and cholera. For me and for the Christian People's Party, major road maintenance cuts are set up against railway maintenance a difficult choice. We chose to try to maintain road capital, asphalting, railings, road safety and accessibility – which is very important for business as well – we chose to build and salt winter roads. We chose to strike the roads, and we chose the option of maintaining the ferry service. And I think we chose right. Wednesday a week ago, the day before the cancellation, the rest of the committee was told how the Workers' Party would distribute the funds within the framework, i.e. a reduction in the item's operation and maintenance by 260 million. kr. The next day, it was on the front page of the Newspaper about shock-free tyres and accidents. It was an ironic coincidence. Thus, the working party will cut heavily in road maintenance, while winter maintenance becomes more important as more and more people drive with non-rigid tyres. And it's strange that the Arbeiderpartiet Karl Eirik Schjøtt- Pedersen does not want or can say where the reductions in road maintenance are to be taken from, which he has been asked more questions about. With regard to road safety, I would like to point out that the Directorate of Roads has set up a working group to assess Swedish experience in accident prevention, namely this zero vision, and this is also to be included in the national transport plan. It's an important thing that the Christian People's Party is concerned about. The government's draft budget means that the parts of the country that depend on ferries do not fear a lower ferry offer. When we avoided majority voting for the Workers' Party's proposal for cut in maintenance, we avoided at the same time that there was less money to ensure a good and decent ferry service in District Norway. It's important. We have a budget that ensures progress in all on-going developments. At the same time, all figures show that a number of projects that are under development have large cost exceedances — on average, approx. 10 pst. It goes without saying that there is no room to keep full progress within a tight budgetary framework with such overruns. Now our agreement with the Right and Advance Party means that we find room to increase investment on the highways by 150 million. kr. We don't say anything about the distances to which the money is going. We don't send Christmas cards in this way, but we give the department the confidence that they allocate the funds to those projects where more money means most for economic rational progress. The government has submitted a budget prioritising racial protection. It's set at 75 million. kr on a separate item for racism, in addition to the funds under ordinary instruments of convergence that will be used for measures that also reduce the risk of racism. A racial protection plan is being worked on, which will also be an instrument for the 2000 budget, and in the work on the national transport plan. A little about the Post and the restructuring obligations. There, Christian People's Party and Center state that the remaining $200 million. kr is included in the draft government budget for 2000. It's a significant piece for the Post. A little about the environmental action plan. An environmental action plan has been presented together with the budget, and it contains quite a number of exciting and challenging issues. We'll get back to that at a later stage. Finally, we have unsolved tasks in our country, including in the field of transport. But at the same time, it has to be added that we actually live in a good country at a high level of well-being. That is why, in the future, I think we should tackle the challenges, including in this sector that we are discussing here today, for the benefit of both the city and the district. And the Christian People's Party joins the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e604	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e607	The representative Kofoed-Larsen swung to the great heights over the fact that the NSB sails in the co-wind, and to the councils a considerable honor for the situation. I must say that I believe that honor should be given mainly to the management of the NSB alone. In my years here in the house I have experienced many lovers of the railway, but in many respects they have also appeared as impotent lovers of the railway. I want to get back to the distribution of the 150 million. kr. It has been said that the comment in the vote may draw the conclusion that no one is mentioned and no one is forgotten. But it's not that simple. The note raises a lot of questions, including:: How are the funds to be allocated to tribal and other national roads? It has also been said in the comments that the Member States receiving additional funds in 1999 will be included in the 2000 budget. Has the majority taken into account that the stuttering agents have now been lifted out of the allocated pot to the states? It will be wrong if a county receives funding for a tribal road project, in order to draw these from the framework of other national roads in the budget for 2000. Is it desirable to put a lid on this precisely to prevent strong reactions from the county, or was it perhaps difficult to reach an agreement on which projects to be distributed? I understand that very well when I see the sandwich list that the Advance Party has in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e616	Yes, I'd like to give credit to the management of the NSB, we're very pleased that things are going so well on the train this year. I would like to divide the honor between the Department, the Council of State and the management of the NSB. I also think the Workers' Party is pleased that the investment on the railway really turns out to have positive effects – and that is what we are going to do. With regard to the 150 million for road investment, no one has been mentioned, no one has forgotten, says Røtweg. And that was actually the point. There were also no difficulties in the discussion in relation to the conciliation, because we actually agreed that the department would make that distribution in order to get the most effect out of the crowns. We believe that it must be the department first and foremost who knows where it is most effective to get out of the funds. That is why we have that wording – and it was with good advice from all the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e623	The representative Kofoed-Larsen rejoiced and almost rejoiced over the large traffic increase in the recent NSB. And that's right, it's a pleasure that it's an increase. But all we've seen of that increase is in percent, it doesn't show the real numbers. But for those who know the real numbers, the increase is not so dramatic. We know that over Svinesund 10 000 cars go by day, while with NSB it is approx. 700 traveling. With the Sørlandsbanen, the NSB brings approx. 1 100 – and we all know how many trains the train takes. How will the Christian People's Party deal with this in the future when business and ordinary people choose their way, and need their way? Does not the Christian People’s Party see the great need for good roads in the districts? And isn't it good district policy to build where the businesses are, so that people can still live on the outskirts? In addition, we have had the liberalisation of air traffic. Now it has become virtually free to fly. To Trondheim the planes go almost as close as the buses out in the street here. Does the representative Kofoed-Larsen not see that people would rather take flights instead of the train, when the train takes seven hours from Trondheim and down here, and it is even more expensive than it is to travel by plane? Finally, I would like to say that it was a pleasure to bring extra money for road investments, but that money was very much involved. It was only after we threatened to go to the Workers' Party that we finally got a little richer from the railway to road investments.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e634	To take the last first, the allocation from the railway and over to the road. In the situation we're in now, it's just to say that there's actually pretty tight budgets both in terms of rail and road, and then we think it was acceptable in this round to move something from path to road in the areas we did it. The representative Nistad says something about the joy that there is an increase in the railway – I hope that he too thinks it is positive. And when he's talking about real numbers, you can just look at the numbers of some of the distances, for example. for the Gardermoban, and see how they are. So that people give priority to flights in relation to trains. It turns out that those who represent a large increase in the number of passengers on the Oslo – Trondheim route by train say that it is much more appropriate and better to take trains between these two cities than it is to take flights. It's pretty hard to fly from Oslo to Trondheim and vice versa, they know that from us that's done it. It actually means quite a lot to people that the train goes from the center to the center and has become a good offer. So we're very satisfied with that. And those of us who use the railway quite regularly actually see every time we take the train, that passenger numbers are increasing. Not least those of us who frequent the Dovre course, see it. It probably also has to do with the Gardermoen location of the Gardermoen. Then I've got a question about road priorities, if we don't see that there is a need for good roads in the district. Well, there's a need for good roads in the district, and we want to do something about that. But what the Progress Party wants to do is, among other things. prioritisation of the four-field motorway from Oslo to Trondheim. I can't see that it's a particularly good district profiling.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e645	The representative Kofoed-Larsen has kept a really warm post and had some hot lines about the railway, and I appreciate the real experience she has. But the railway cannot live on hot posts alone. The heat has given some indignation when she tried to give the department credit for the growth that is now. If I'm going to assign honor, it's not between department and management, it's between management and employees. I don't think the department or the majority in this room so far have a very honorable history in terms of railway operations in Norway. We can think back on the treatment of the railway plan and the Christian People's Party and we stood together about then, when we showed that there had been too little investment, that other modes of transport had been invested, the railway had been neglected – or as it says: ‘In the post-war period, relatively little attention has been paid to the development and modernisation of the rail network in relation to road and aerodrome development. Essentially, Norway has the same rail network today as 40 to 50 years ago, while the road and aerodrome networks have been heavily upgraded and upgraded.’ Right -- we're saying that the network is old; it's from the Middle Ages, almost. And the Central Party and the Christian People's Party have, in a joint remark in the attitude to the railway plan, said the following: ‘These members regard rail as an environmentally good transport option, and believe that a significantly stronger effort is needed than the Government proposes...’. And then we talk about the Jagland Government and Norwegian Railway Plan 1998-2007 and a significantly stronger bet than the Workers' Party adds. And what are we experiencing now? Well, that the bet really has become less than what the Workers' Party is in favour of. It must have been pretty bitter for the railway friend Kofoed-Larsen to cut, first 15 million. kr in the night settlement at central level and then 50 mill. in an evening settlement in the Committee. Then she boasts of that crooked, they get money. Yeah, in the middle of the period, the incubators have got 35 pst. of the funds held by them during the period. That's 65 pst. back to the last two years. How does she manage to find the means when it goes so slowly?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e662	The Socialist Left Party at Inge Myrvoll is occupied by the railway, and it is the Christian People's Party and I very pleased with it. I think we both have quite a lot of commitment to railway operations, and we're going to have that in the future as well. Inge Myrvoll wants to share the credit for the good result that part of us now agree that we have got, also with employees in the railway, and we can agree on that. Everyone, I think, has been involved in making an effort to ensure that the investment on the railway that has now taken place has been as successful as it has. It applies at all levels, I think. I think the Socialist Left Party and Inge Myrvoll are satisfied with this at least, as we are the others. It has not been the railway bet, I see, for many years, before this government joined a year ago. Railways may in some way have been neglected, not least because considerable investment is required all the time to maintain a high-quality railway. We all want to do something about that now, maybe apart from the Progress Party, we want, not least with the Socialist Left Party, to do something about this bet. And that's what we're trying to do now. We have also tried this year, and have been paid for this by investing in the maintenance of the railway. For it is important for the next investment that is now coming, namely the tilting rate, which has received significant investment to date, and which is also in the budget for next year. And that bet we want to be on the track that it's explained in the setting. We expect that also the Socialist Left Party and the Inge Myrvoll will be involved. Railways are a very good environmental means of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e671	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e674	The Lostenesta is the theme of the budget, and in addition, the Committee has had to deal with a separate case on additional rights for the loftesta. As a case manager for the area of unloading services in the budget and also the matter of additional licences, St.prp. No 5, I will start my article with the case of non-compliance. Obligation to discharge ships of a certain size has been imposed to ensure the safety of maritime traffic along the coast and to reduce the risk of contamination resulting from loss of life. The principle of the disbursement budget is that the expenditure shall be financed by the corresponding revenue from fees to users. This principle is the big deal in the committee. In the current year, there seems to be an excess of 27.5 million. kr for the fee. The reason for this is the increase in overtime use due to growth in unloading activity and the greater part of the job being short-term, which has resulted in revenue per year. unloading operations have been less than expected. In addition, there has been a lack of budgetary management by the fact that budgetary allocations have not had a post-payment of the employer's fee and a backlog for 1997 on compensation in connection with the new special agreement for the losteneservice. There is reason to ask questions about the financial management of the loftest, but as I have already mentioned, there are good reasons for the excesses in the proposition, and in the light of these explanations there is a plurality in the Committee, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, join in the proposal to increase the ransom by 14 pst. and cover the excess over three years — in other words, the revenue from the unloading fee and the cost of the unloading service for the period 1998–2001 should be balanced together, as expressed in II of the option. At the same time, the parties mentioned stressed the importance of continuing work on measures to improve the efficiency of the Lostness Service. The Committee is aware of and welcomes the fact that measures have already been put in place to provide better financial management, but it is also necessary to monitor developments closely. The proposed selection, where users and losers are to be involved in the process of assessing different aspects of the loosing service and the unloading fee, is a measure that can help to improve the management of this service. If not, the committee will receive a notification of the looting service for its management. In addition, the Coastal Works Selection shall shortly submit its configuration. This will provide the basis for a thorough review of the organisation and operation of the Coastal Agency including the Lostnest. I then want to use the rest of my post to get into some areas within the transport budget. It's a very tight budget. But if a few to a tight government budget, which I have the impression that all the parties were agreed on was necessary, the transport sector also had to take its share of the tightening up. Within this tight budget, I am pleased that there is room found to increase the funds for racial protection. The dangers of race create unsafe situations. Racial protection is therefore very important for those who have to pass the razed area. By creating a separate item for racial protection, which was attached to the budget debate last year, and an additional exercise was given, it is more focused on racial protection than before. I also want to bring out another post on the road budget, i.e. the maintenance post. The small budget lines that have been in place for several years have led to a reduction in road capital. Poor road maintenance is also quickly noticeable for road users, and it is a poor supply for business. This is not a good development, and it is positive that next year's budget has increased the level of road maintenance. Within this tight budget, it has also been possible to make a useful effort to facilitate a train. Should trains be an attractive alternative, comfort and travel time must be acceptable to users. The roll-over action is just an adjustment to make trains more attractive. Finally, a few words about aviation. Within the aviation sector, it is both positive and negative to draw up in the 1999 budget. The positive thing is that there has been better capacity for those areas of the short-range network that had low capacity utilisation. Then I think of Helgeland and the West. The negative thing is that the majority have not found room for the continuation of the hint for scheduled flights on Leirin within the aviation part of the budget. I'm sorry that this hasn't been closed, but there's a positive element in it, that the multiple has said clearly that, in spite of the lack of access to route operations, the aerodrome has to stay up.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e697	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e701	Now the representative Jorunn Ringstad did not get into the most controversial issues within the social security system in his post. And we actually don't like it very much either that it's the representative Jorunn Ringstad who has to answer for all the breaches of the Central Party. But we're recording that the central part of one heart thing has to give in in order to keep its place in the government, not least within the community. Among other things, I can mention postal policy and county roads, both of which are very important issues for districts. No one has avoided getting the signals from the government's collaborators in relation to privatising Telenor. My question will then be: Is the Center Party also willing to privatise Telenor to continue working with the Right and Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e708	I expect the representative, Gunn Olsen, to understand that in a five-minute post in a transport debate, it is impossible to enter all areas. It would take both half an hour and more to comment and come up with ideas about everything in such a budget. I perceive that what Gunn Olsen asked a specific question was the privatisation of Telenor. What can be said from the Center Party's side is that for a good six months ago, we agreed to grant $2 billion to Telenor for Telenor to continue its development. At the same time, Telenor has expressed that it's just the beginning of a bet that they think is necessary. Then a question can be asked about the amount of money that will be invested. If Telenor is to bet as they like, it can be about two billion dollars of public funds. For this reason, in the agreement concluded between the five parties, we have made a written agreement when it relates to the over-construction of this State budget, saying that we are willing to assess partial privatisation in order to enable Telenor in this way to carry out a further development and a commitment. There are quite round formulations that are there, and we're going to get back to what any content of this bet is going to be. But we also see that here it might be an advantage to get capital other than public capital if Telenor should be able to put into action the bet they want.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e715	I know Jorunn Ringstad as an intelligent and reflective colleague, and I was therefore quite startled when I read the nations earlier in the fall, where she makes a strong contribution to setting city and land against each other. For in the Nation on October 22 she says: ‘If the close-up work in the sport of Rome is not useful, it must be stopped.’ And then it says, ‘She understands well that people in the districts are listed over the millions who float and float in order to stop the leakages in the railway tunnel during the eastern part of Oslo.’» Then I have to ask: what does the representative Ringstad really mean by this? Because it's not just destruction that happens there. There are sentence injuries in the houses of several hundred homeowners on Hellerud, on Godlia, on Ellingsrud. To be honest, the airport isn't primarily an Oslo action, it's a national issue, and it wasn't on the Gardermoen many of us in Oslo, at least, would originally have it. I now have my own idea of what is the background to letting your frustration go out on innocent people in a part of our capital. Perhaps the frustration of the budget for transport presented by the Government is so strong that the representative Ringstad has let it go out on innocent people and their houses and homes in these places in Oslo. Can she confirm that there is no reason to see less seriously that people are losing their safe houses and homes on Hellerud, Godlia and Ellingsrud than elsewhere in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e732	I thought the representative Hoegh made a brave attempt to twist a look-up in a newspaper strongly in a direction that was not at all justified. My starting point for that look in the nation was that I got questions about how long we're going to keep going if it doesn't give the slightest effect. And I'm assuming that even Annelise Högh and the Right Party are concerned that the money we invest, whether it's for sealing in the Rome sport or otherwise, is going to have some kind of effect. Either there must be investments that improve the area in question, or it must give the effect that one would have. At the time that this question was asked to me, there was a signal that we now have a longer period of time, and that does not work. And my clear answer was that if it doesn't make sense, it's little use of more money. Otherwise, I would like to advise the representative, Highgh, that one should not always believe in absolutely everything that is in the media. When I read a look-up in the newspapers, I take a certain reminder that it is twisted in a certain direction. And my starting point has not been to put the city and land up against each other, but it has been that if we use funds from the state budget, it goes beyond something else, and it is not I who have suggested that it goes beyond the districts. But if we're going to use funds from the state budget, one must give priority, set up one action against another, and it doesn't have to be within the same area.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e741	The representative, Ringstad, said that the formulations used for the sub-privatisation of Telenor were ‘round formulations’. The centre party was not much round in its formulations on telecommunications policy when one and a half years ago. Yes, as late as last autumn's election campaign, the then head of the transport committee Magnus Stangeland said that he was alive a partial privatization of Telenor. There's a sail I'm going a little far. The party leader Anne Enger Lahnstein made it quite clear that this was to be controlled by society and now a ‘round formulations’ deal is made with the Right and the Advance Party on sub-privatisation. In fact, in the previous period, we were criticized in SV for being too market-oriented, and the Center Party was together with RV in this room. I have to say that the jumps are getting a little big. I don't quite manage to keep track of the argument, but perhaps the Center Party was a bit too steering control in the last period. But do not go to the opposite extreme and let go of the possibilities of societal telecommunications policy management that a partial privatisation of Telenor may entail. It will be a transition that is very unfortunate, not least for District Norway. When the representative Ringstad talks about racial protection, I think about this with promises. When we chirped Hardangerbrua – and I am very happy about that – there was a promise to Hardanger in about 250 million. kr in racial protection during this four-year period. After two years, if this budget is implemented, we are well on a recovery of approx. 20-25 pst. It's not much to be proud of. It is a clear breach of the promise of a population in a very vulnerable area. And I had hoped that the Center Party would fight a little more to carry out this promise, which I believe is a very important promise.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e748	When one hears the last part of Myrvoll's contribution, one should believe that he is a participant at all of the Center Party's meetings, both group meetings and other meetings, when he can comment on whether one has fought or not. But I'm going to lay it down. When it comes to racial protection in Hardanger, I also know the history of what happened when Hardangerbrua was scrapped in Stortinget. When you look at all the needs that exist, whether it concerns racial protection, investment or maintenance, it is clear that you could want more money for transport. I said in my post that I have a feeling that all parties have been concerned that we should get a tight state budget for 1999. In that case, all sectors must be involved in such a tightening. Thus, there was a sum for transportation and road construction that I believe most of us would have liked to be greater. But within that sum, an advantage is going to have to be the best possible. We've increased the licenses for racial protection, but it's clear that the desire to get an even larger sum is so absolute both in the Center Party and in the other Center Parties. But we've distributed and tried to use the funds available on the transport budget, in the best possible way, and so that one covers the important areas. When it comes to racial protection, we know that there are plans and overviews of all the projects that they would like to have funds for. And it would almost be a transportation budget alone if it were to be covered in a year.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e757	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e760	It's possible the Center Party has been fighting, but I think they've come into bad company. And they're doomed to lose those games. If they don't get out of the bad company, they're going to be turned yellow and blue, and they don't get results out of it, and that would be bad. I would also like to make a small comment to the representative Oddvard Nilsen, as he said in his reply to me that SV has so much more money than the Right. In the case of transportation, at least that's not true, because in the original budget, Right had more money than SV to transport, sail if we had a lot to the railway. And in the budget we're discussing today, we have exactly the same frame, on the ear, but we have a different priority than the Right. We have to stick to the hits as well. Last year, the central government apologized for not showing what they were up to, they had inherited a budget after Jagland. It was only this autumn that they were to create a budget on their own. If the Voksenåsen statement is the map sketch of the rented country, they have already come out of course. They have left the rudder cult to Hagen and Petersen, and with flau right breeze in the sails, they see their Waxenåsen land disappearing in the horizon – aft. Where were they supposed to be in the transport policy? It's today's theme. With collective solutions in cities and central districts, they were to go out into the districts with an infrastructure to facilitate business and housing. District policy and the environment were the honorary orders. Or, as they said in the Adult Declaration, the development of infrastructure is a key pillar of viable local communities which ‘must contribute to reducing distance costs and making industry in the districts competitive.’ And what do we experience? I've been through the state budgets from 1986 until next year. The two worst ones are 1998 – the year – and the 1999 proposal for the part of the country I come from, North Norway. In the case of Northern Norway, the railway is constantly on a per million level. It can be less difficult. But on the road side, we have experienced a downturn that is dramatic, from the fact that North Norway in the last part of the 1980s had 25 pst. of road investment funds, a gradual downward trend has been observed, and now the share is halved to about 50 %. 13 pst. The downward movement started under the Working Party and continues downhill with the Center Management. That's not what they said in the road plan, in the election campaign and in the Waksenås statement. Here there was to be a promise, but then it was the promises that fell. In yesterday's municipal debate, government parties tried to sell district parcels. Yes, but do the packages reach the districts when the infrastructure is not working? Out there are winter roads, raspberry roads, roads with poor carrying capacity, where the car combinations are overturned in the ditch because they have to go out on the edge when they meet cars, and the edge does not hold. In rural areas, goods are produced – in fisheries, in wood processing and in industry. They have the distance constraints. So we can do a little bit of distance, but we have to do something about the proximity. For us in SV, it is important to have a district profile in road investments. That's why it's sad that especially North Norway has become the big loser. Both our primary budget and within the framework we have been allocated, SV has redistributed road payments from central lines to districts. We have also followed up our pledges to bet on racial protection, with priority on Hardanger and the outside Lofoten. When we move in the districts, it's over long distances. It often means that there is no alternative but planes; indeed within your own state it becomes necessary to use aeroplanes. For businesses, the public sector and private travellers, this means high costs. The maximum costs are those that have to use both the short-range network and the mains route network. There has been a broad majority in this room to use public purchases to get reasonable prices. But do the central parties and the Labour Party really believe that there are reasonable prices today? In that case, it surprises me. Next year, the regional grid shall be offered. There is a political question as to what should be included in the contract documents, including: the level of prices to be met. But no parties other than SV will mean anything about it. And then I have to ask, because it hasn't been taken up before, because those who take a line on me, if they have nothing else to raise, can answer the question: Does the Workers' Party mean what they said about reasonable prices when we treated the country's involvement in the regional grid, and are the reasonable prices now? I do not understand that the Workers' Party is so concerned with this seat fee that is distributed throughout the country. Actually, most of it is taken in between Oslo and Bergen and between Oslo and Trondheim – and insignificantly in District Norway. Do you think it's that important? Where you have the big costs, you have the long distances and you have to combine the short-range network and the main route network. There you could set the money in focus instead of cutting the seat charge. What about the central politicians? Are you satisfied with the costs incurred by businesses and district dwellers for air transport? Why don't you come and premise for the bidding round? Why is it not supported by the SV's proposals, which involve a reduction in prices on the short-distance network? And then a little thing. We've got some kind of spice layer. It was said by the representative Ringstad that she was pleased with the increased capacity on the short-haul network with the two planes, but I can't believe that it would be so that the users of the planes now get a double price increase. They not only receive what is contained in the original contract documents, they receive an additional increase in price because they have increased their capacity. Is that good district policy? I asked the representative Nilsen from the Right what he thought about it. He did not respond in the line, but perhaps he can answer later. Does he think it's right to double-price increases for people in Sogn and Fjordane and Helgeland because they've got the capacity they needed? But now let me leave the districts and take the train in towards the central strike. I'm not impressed by the central government's train effort. In the last big period, the central politicians and I went up and down the line at Opseth – which is by the way behind the hall here – for a lack of train effort. In the setting of the railway plan, there are harsh words from the Centre on the Railway Policy of the Workers Party. Now the center is worse than the Working Party. A main field of action was tilted. Here we decided to spend 1.6 billion over four years. A decision is probably still a fairly strong commitment in this hall, I believe. At the end of today's voting period, this Decision is complied with by approx. 35 pst, and then we're in the middle of the period. How are you going to get the rest of the money in the period so that we get these trains really on track? The NSB has ordered a lot of new material to hurl on the track of the Middle Ages and wait for crossing trains. Shouldn't the success of the Gardermoban inspire a promise? Instead, the Vestfold Railway and the Østfold Railway will be situated as permanent construction areas with a boom drive, while new four-field motorways compete for the passengers. The Adult Declaration states: ‘A central government will be committed to a stronger commitment to and a more efficient rail system to provide more environmentally friendly transport. It is important to facilitate the competitiveness of the rail system.’» Yes, if you want it, you have to do something, then a priority has to be given. And then I'd say to the representative Kofoed-Larsen, who said that the Christian People's Party and SV certainly agreed on the railway: yes, we may be, but if the Christian People's Party does not get out of the company they are in, there will be no bet on the railway. Then it will be cut and cut and cut. If the Christian People's Party is to sit and negotiate with the Right and the Advance Party, there is neither a railway nor any real big city subsidy that allows you to raise the environment in the big cities. You're in bad company! After a central night settlement and an evening settlement in the Committee, the railway effort is cut by SEK 65 million. And then you're going to take away 20 million. kr from the major urban funds, the means to improve the urban environment through increased collective effort. What was supposed to be an increase was a decrease. Co-operation with the right-hand side is neither a regional policy nor an environmental policy, and it is clear that the representative Oddvard Nilsen has reason to smile. Now the Minister for Transport has presented his budget as a collective effort, but there are several pieces it has been congested about. One piece is this 54 million. kr is drawn up on the framework grant on the grounds that the use of tenders may result in savings. Why is the center now to confiscate funds, while they were against it when the Workers' Party ruled? And wouldn't it be better if any savings could provide a better offer? Even more surprised I am when I see what happens to what is called the full refund of the car diesel fee, and here I would like to ask the other parties: if it turns out that full reimbursement is not going to be, are you willing to say that then we should fix it when we have it on the table? Because it has not been willing to do so in the Committee's vote. SV is to strengthen public transport, not strangle it, and if what we have of numbers now, votes, it could be 70 million. kr less than the full refund. And if you take the 54 million. kr on the tender page for transfers on the framework, it is more than 120 million. kr that you can cut on collective bets, and most of them are buses. Next year's budget is miserable; poor rural profile and disappointing environmental profile. As the centre enters into more and more binding agreements with the right-hand side, there is little reason for hope in the future. With Petersen's and Hagen's grip on the rudder cult, Adultåsland lies far in the disen aftut.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e815	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e818	I have great respect for the representative, Inge Myrvoll. He's a hacked-out train trailer, and honor be to him for it. But I am also pleased with what Inge Myrvoll came up on here, namely this using other public transport equipment. Because it is not that everyone lives along the train tracks, and in this respect the Workers' Party believes that bus transport is a good offer, not just in the districts. Does not Inge Myrvoll think that investment is therefore important for large road projects, so that buses from the districts can also run smoothly? Inge Myrvoll is also not very enthusiastic about airplanes, but he is excited about the routes relating to Northland and North Norway. In the case of ticket prices in the West and Helgeland, Myrvoll shall be commended for its commitment. But since the representative Myrvoll is alone on the comment on the reduction of ticket prices on the routes on the West and Helgeland, my question may go in the direction of whether or not the representative could have been on the Workers' Party's proposal to wind up the fare, which, in fact, although Inge Myrvoll is willing to do so, would result in cheaper air travel across the country. Inge Myrvoll is also a district political spokesman. Why couldn't Inge Myrvoll be with the Workers' Party on the Leirin note, which is a small airport necessary for the district?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e830	All means of transport have their territory where they have their strength. With the distances we have in this country, it's clear that there are some distances where the plane is the only sensible means of emergence, but it's not an environmentally friendly means of emergence. But it's clear that when you're going 60-70-100-200 miles, there's no alternative to the plane. I was asked why I could not apply for the fare. I do not understand that the Workers' Party is concerned about it. It's the least targeted way to get into aviation. It's actually collected only on some major sections, and then the companies distribute it on the tickets beyond. They can do that without us having any insight into it. But they say that, to create opposition in the districts. But the money that is lost there could have been spent focused on making it cheaper for those who have high transport costs. If you have a return ticket from Finnmark to Oslo of NOK 6000-7000, 20-30 in the fare – which is distributed throughout the country, which is not charged up there – means nothing. But you can put targeted measures on the short-range network and spend that money in a conscious way. That the Workers' Party is so busy with this flight seat fee, makes me confused, and I wonder, why has it become a symbolic matter, which has been raised by several representatives here today? I think buses are an excellent means of transport, including the combination of bus and rail, and in many places in the country we do not have the railway as an alternative. But I don't think it's to get the buses running that many of the big road projects started. I think that's a crazy way to think about if you build four-field highways parallel to double-tracked, fast-tracked railways, which you're going to get. You have to look at where to use the road money. Maybe it's better to use those where the bus has problems getting there, where it's both race, winter fences, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e839	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e842	When the representative Myrvoll claims that the Progress Party and the Right are bad companies, I would like to ask if SV is so much better. Or is there self-good there in the farm? From the budgetary position, it is stated that SV has DKK 1.4 billion in capped reduction. 1320 State Road Service in relation to the proposals of the Advance Party. That's 350 million. kr less for the operation and maintenance of our highways, it is 1,084 million. kr less on national road investments, and there is 29.5 million. kr less for road use. Does the representative Inge Myrvoll think this is a good district effort? I see that SV is betting more on the rail than on the road, but the representative, who is from one of our northern parts of the country, should know that what is needed most, is road and not rail. Has SV forgotten our districts with regard to the road sector? In the case of the railway, the good characteristics of the local train at our largest cities and as a carrier of heavier goods have longer distances. But the representative Myrvoll believes that people choose the train between Trondheim and Oslo when the train uses approx. seven hours and are more expensive than aeroplanes, using three quarters? In excess the train is subsidised, while the large airlines are not and have seat charges in addition to the landing charges.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e849	Yes, as long as the centre parties and the center government say they have district policy and environment as a bet area, they've been in bad company. I allow myself to say that, and I can repeat that many times. If, on the other hand, the centre parties have other objectives, it is possible that they are in the right company, but not on the basis of those objectives. When comparing the main draft budget of the Progress Party and the SV, it is clear that there will be large distances, not least on the road side. I'm really happy about that. But what we have done, both in our primary proposal and within the framework, is that we have tried to turn the funds from central major project to districts. We say that we are central to rail – this is where it has its strength, and this is where we have to start investment. I think we've got a good profile. We're betting on roads where roads are the only alternative to the sea, and then we're betting on collective solutions where we have large population centers. However, the railways also benefit in the districts, not least in terms of freight transport, and it is often in the districts that the most important product production in the country takes place, so that the railway has its own business. Besides, I'd like to take the night watch from Mo in Rana to Værnes. That day the train takes ten hours from Mo in Rana to Oslo and not 15, I will take the night train to Oslo – I will sleep forward, perfectly well. But I think the train also gets more competitive when the driving time goes down, to travel by plane, means a lot of dead time. It's one of the worst time use you can have, you have to go to the airport and check in – there's no structure over time, it's very useless. So that day the train is a little bit faster and offers good quality, I think actually many will choose to use it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e858	Number is too long
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e861	I forgot to record suggestions. I'd like to do that – it's excellent suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e866	Inge Myrvoll has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e869	I have to admit that I sometimes have some problems taking the representative Inge Myrvoll seriously. It has something to do with us being presented for a description of misery that I don't find has root in reality. Everything is not just misery with central government, and I believe that the representative of Inge Myrvoll also agrees. And when, in addition, he manages to characterize the district package as misery, I wonder where the district friendly representative Inge Myrvoll really is. His co-representative, Kristin Halvorsen, has clearly stated that one of the positive areas for this government is the district package and the district profile in it. When I read further that the representative inge Myrvoll wants to spend 750 million. kr on the railway, as we know very much is investment on the railway in central areas – then it must be emphasised that the Christian People's Party also agrees with a commitment on the railway – and in addition, to spend large sums on large cities and re-prioritizing means for walking and cycling roads, which are also very much a need in central areas, one can question the 'large' rural effort contained in the SV's alternative budget proposals. I will challenge the representative Inge Myrvoll to go a little further into the draft budget he has presented, and tell us what is really the district effort there.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e878	I have the problem that when I want to say a lot, I talk fast, and then it becomes unclear. It has clearly become unclear to the representative of Sahl. I did not say that there was something wrong with the district package, but I said that there is so little help with a district package that does not reach the districts because other things are not working. It is excellent to put in some tools, but when it is cut otherwise, what I have said is that especially our part of the country now becomes a hard frame on the road. I don't think that after the war we have had such a low share of the investment. Twelve years ago, we were at 25 pst. Now we're at 13 pst. It's going down evenly. If it continues like that, we're going to owe money in 2005 or something like that. If that development continues, we have to start paying in. That's the reality, and I've put those numbers on the table, and no one has said anything against me. It actually has support in «Our Veger» – they say I am absolutely right. On the other hand, I say that then I have to use the means with the district profile, when that is what the options are. In addition, I would like to bet on fishing ports in the districts. That's a little bit more than that. And then I'm a little bit concerned about aviation, because the distances are so big. In fact, in our county – the representative of Sahl – we have to use an internal plane. This leads to high costs for business, private travellers, the public, etc. That's why I'm saying let's put funds there. But in terms of the railway bet, I'll take the one where it gets the most power. So I'm going to come back to whether something is going to happen in the districts once in the next millennium. That is to say, the crunching is also a little bit of district bet, sea if it's very far south of the country. But I just have to admit, there we have to take that twist. I believe that we have a policy with a whole, we use the instruments in the districts, and what are the sensible instruments in the central strata. I would like to go through that with the representative Sahl when I have more than one line. President, I'd like another 10 minutes, I!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e891	Unfortunately, the President cannot give the representative Myrvoll. That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e896	The transport budget to be adopted today has been reduced in relation to the budget for the current year. The need for a tight budget to bring down your interest rate means that this is the result. Within this frame a priority is given to: increase bet on maintenance increases the permissions to race protection by 152 pst. investment in better public transport infrastructure in metropolitan areas increases road safety; Through the negotiations for a plurality of government priorities, this profile is still intact. Increased efforts are needed to maintain road and track maintenance. It is good rural policy and good environmental policy, and it has been neglected for a long time. It is important that the resources we have invested in transport are managed in such a way that road safety work is continued and that we can maintain the standard on the transport network. Here you must leave your holiday home, which is a very important part of it. It is a pleasure that the entire committee has agreed that in a tight budget one will not reduce the Government's proposals for tilting. We've seen lately that when the train is good, people like to take the train. The daily newspaper reported yesterday that there is now an ‘enormous’ growth in the number of travelers with NSB in South Norway. Last year, there were periods of focus on train delays and chaos. The government prioritised the 1998 budget to increase the commitment to the maintenance of the network. Now that this gives such good results, it shows that further efforts on maintenance are needed, and one has increased this entry by 133 million. kr. In the same paper one can read that more people take the bus than before. This is promising for future collective action. That's why, as I said before, it's also important to maintain a good level of security and punctuality. Good maintenance is essential to ensure that the car stops run smoothly. Here I am thinking of brewing and bedding. So it's completely inconceivable that the Workers' Party can see that 260 million. kr can be removed from maintenance and moved to investment. If one invests in several new ways, the need for maintenance also increases. The budget has raised 380 million. kr as compensation for the additional costs of abolishing the car diesel fee for buses. This shall apply from 1 January 1999 and shall be granted as ear-marked funds via the county. Questions have been raised about whether the bus companies get full compensation for these costs. A large number of the Committee are in favour of buses with route permissions, but without any right of access, also being compensated for the cancellation of car diesel charges. It's a fact that cars that run on auto diesel emit more particles than cars that run on petrol. It is important that, in the future, a user made the money available in such a way that it stimulates efficient and environmentally friendly operation in the form of a better composition of the bus fleet, the use of new technologies and environmentally friendly fuels. In any evaluation of the compensation calculation, the Left states that these elements must be added to the weight. One must not forget that lifting the exemption will result in more environmentally friendly modes of transport. Within a very narrow budget, the Left is pleased that it has been possible to increase efforts in the area of maintenance and racial protection and to improve road safety and the better infrastructure for public transport. When it comes to the Workers' Party's proposal, where one has sent some Christmas greetings to my county, Hordaland, and focused on racial protection in Hardanger with a desire for more means to do so, I would say that without a good maintenance on behalf of Hordaland, a well-accepted postponement of some road projects. However, reducing ferry services and focusing on road safety will be a disaster to reduce road maintenance. I noticed that the head of the road in Hordaland said that the government's proposal for the maintenance budget could lead to more accidents because there was a little too little money for maintenance. So the maintenance of the road capital is incredibly important for District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e934	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e937	The representative Vihodde mentioned the adventurous growth in the number of train passengers in South Norway and stressed that a good train offer is used by people when available. But in order to achieve an efficient operation that also provides a good train offer, the organisation of operations has a lot to say. The organisation of the NSB has now been the subject of debate throughout the 1990s in Stortinget, but the majority, including the Left, have constantly made small changes in this organisation with their backs on the wall – something they have almost been forced to do. As I see it, really the middle parties, and especially the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, have and still have a romantic relationship with this by railway. Now it is the case that the Council of State has done a little bit of work this time and has gone in to change the organisation of the operation of the railway system by separating the railway system and the NSB BA. But this is really a little bit of a grip. It's something they're almost forced to do to make it work better. I have to ask the representative: why on earth don't you take the whole step and turn the NSB into your own independent AS, so that they can have that flexibility and operate, which will lead to a better effect of all the money we spend in the NSB? Why is it that you just have to take this in small steps? We have proposed this several times, and I must say that I had hoped that the Left would at least have realized how important it is to give such a state enterprise – now that we need to modernise the public sector – the means and tools it needs to be able to get the efficient operation that you really require.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e944	I'm not sure if it's always so that when a company turns into an AS, it becomes more efficient, more flexible and more possible. I think it's important to take the small steps. One has in recent years had a great reorganization within public administration, both in terms of rail, road and aircraft. One has taken the small steps, and I think that's necessary. I think that one has now seen, that more people take the train, it's more efficient, the train is more punctual, it's the will of the big crowd to bet on the NSB and on the railway, it might in the long run open to competition. One has taken the first step by separating the railway station. Osmund Ueland himself has stated that he does not fear competition. So in the long run, one might open up for competition if there are others who see the profitability of going in and competing in this area. But I mean and I say to the left that one should take the small steps and not the big jump until one has seen what the consequences can be.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e951	In Bavaria, the state government spends NOK 6 billion per year. years to purchase services from the railway. It's not that the railway is a lucrative thing, that if you say competition, it's just driving the companies on the track – chaos on the track. The point is that the railway is a socially good instrument for achieving certain objectives, and that is actually how you buy services. I believe this dream of right-hand competition has become a kind of commotion that has nothing to do with reality. To the representative Vihovde I would say that I do not want to use the word adventurous. I'll say a positive trend. And we need to strengthen it by giving the railway the opportunity to evolve. This means, for example: one must have capacity. I think, for example, having a double track in Eastfold and Westfold, finishing the works and making this work can be a great inspiration for increasing traffic. But then it has to be invested. As long as you stand there waiting for crossing trains, and you kind of get the problems there, which also have to do with regularity and capacity, you don't get the promise. You can get positive trends, but not the promise you need – not the adventurous growth you really want. So for this, more people take the bus. What I'm a little afraid of is that we're going in too much money, so that the next one is going to be price increases and then reduced offers. I would agree to create a system that motivated better resource use, less fuel use by varying the bus fleet, but it takes time to create a system that works like that. It's not just saying that full compensation doesn't mean full compensation, it means full compensation minus so and so many millions and then it'll be fine. No, the result may be that the offer is getting worse. So I think it's important to have a proper model – if not, you have to give full compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e960	I'm a little unsure about what was the question. I want to focus a little bit on the railway. This government increased its commitment to maintenance in 1998. In the draft budget for this year, one plus of this item has NOK 133 billion. I believe that the will to bet on the maintenance does not mean that the running lines fall down, bet on sleepers and pucks – it has not been mentioned in the debate so far – is important, and it has helped to ensure that the train that comes is punctual, and has made more and more well to take trains. And of course make the success of the flight to Gardermoen. I'm glad that there's a number of people in this room who want to focus and focus more on the railway infrastructure, so that we can put some important pieces that are missing, among other things. double tracks on Skøen so that this wonderfully good collective offer to people in the central east region can continue.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e969	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e972	In the case of road investments, there is a high level of external involvement among the majority of people. This has been fully experienced by the Committee on its travels around the counties. The wishes and needs are many. I assume that the Council of State meets the same pressure for more money for the road sector. The promises have been and are many in the road sector. Over the years, the size has contributed with its own. Governments have also contributed with their promises. This is something that we are all reminded of at every crossroad. Follow-up to promises has to do with political credibility. The greatest promises I've ever seen in my years in the committee are the promises that were made in the spring of 1997. A total of SEK 5.3 billion more for investments in the road sector in the period 1998-2001 left the current government parties at risk. This created enormous expectations in the counties and most of the people. Yes, it was the Christmas evening atmosphere. The majority triumphed over the eyes of the Norwegian people as they spread billions into road investment. Where has it become this bag of money? It was pretty empty last year, and it's even inches this year. I must be allowed to quote from the budget debate last year. The representative Kofoed-Larsen said in a line change: ‘...we aim to ensure that investments for both rail and road purposes will rise to the level for which we went on to deal with the Railway Plan and the Road and Road Road Road Plan in ours. I hope we can do that with a cooperation. But I want to remind you that the period is four years and not just one year at a time. It's a four-year bet." The representative Vihovde said in another reply in the same debate: ‘We have the goal – and there are several people who have realised – of getting up the promises. I will not stand here and promise what one will achieve in the 1999 budget. But the longer this Government gets its seat, the greater the chance that there will be more money, and then we'll have hope of support from the Progress Party in its budgetary proceedings.' Yes, now two years have passed of the planning period, and the government of the representatives of Vihovde and Kofoed-Larsen is still sitting and still has the support of the Progress Party. But more money for road investment has not been made, on the contrary, less than in the government of Jagland Road Planning. I will join the committee leader's quote from the budget debate last year when he quoted the buttonmaker in "Pear Gynt": "We'll be taken on the last crossroads, Peer; and then we'll see about--; I won't say any more." I think the government parties now do well to say before you get to the last crossroads in the autumn of 2000, that the 5.3 billion unfortunately was an unrealistic promise. If you don't say from now on, the credibility will be less and less for every year that goes. The government provides for a further reduction in the progress of road projects under way. The government itself has calculated that in order to run the project in progress rationally, there is a need of about 800 million. kr. more than space has been found in 1999. Extended construction time leads to increased construction costs. A year extension of the construction period of an average plant will increase the construction costs by 10-15 pst. In order to compensate for this, the toll companies’ input into the projects is accelerated, leading to an increase in their commitments in the coming years. The artillery cases from municipalities and counties are pouring on. This leads to increased bonds in addition to the State commitments already in place and per year. On 1 January 1999, it amounts to well over DKK 1 billion. The Committee identifies the sign of the goods and believes that the main link must be to projects that are under way, such as: stops due to a lack of government appropriations. In addition, we are launching eight new road projects in 1999. Of course, in total, this leads to significant limitations in the action programme in the years ahead. It's in the light of this we have to see the Workers' Party's redeployments. I will be the first to admit that reducing the operating and maintenance item in no way is problem-free. But if you look beyond 1999 it will certainly be economically right to increase the investment line in relation to the government's structure. As plant costs increase so much with reduced propulsion, increasing the operating and maintenance post will only lead to us jumping around and biting ourselves in the tail and paying the bill in retrospect. Our proposals mean that the implementation of the road map will be more similar for the two entries, and that both items will come out slightly below the same nominal level as in 1998. I also find reason to recall that a unanimous committee assumes that the funds at its disposal need to be distributed according to what will overall improve road network accessibility. This means the distribution of operational and maintenance efforts in relation to the removal of physical restrictions and bottlenecks on the road network, standard improvements, uniform standard on continuous road routes, and the repair and relief of road systems in areas with cooling problems. There is an increasing interest in toll financing for national and tribal road projects. In this context, the majority emphasises that, in the case of toll financing for tribal roads, an overall assessment must be provided for the whole of the route and not only for route-by-line assessments. There should be such a distance between the bombs that we get up in the fourth gear before we meet the next bomb. This is going to be a challenge. On the part of the Workers' Party, we will assume that toll financing is essentially a fissile layer in which the parties enter with equivalent obligations. I now see a danger in that we get toll cases where the toll ratio is low, among other things. intended to arrange for the refurbishment of the project. Our conclusion is that existing guidelines and practices for the distribution of funding between the State and the company and the public governance of the companies remain the best model. Nor does the Labour Party oppose the assessment of different models of increased county responsibilities in the national road, county road and collective sectors. But we have, as a fundamental foundation, that there should be overall government governance, that the Storting should establish frameworks and guidelines, and that professional competence should continue to be state-owned. Getting a more comprehensive framework for the county sector would be desirable, so that county municipalities have an opportunity for real priority. Therefore, the Workers' Party is also opposed to the creation of a separate entry for racial protection. It should remain below heading 30 Rijksveg investment. This is more in line with the new management system. Otherwise, we risk the next new item being reinvestment in coastal bridges. This leads me to the county road bridges as bottlenecks on the county road network. This is a significant investment that we have to get back to in the transport plan. Otherwise, I am satisfied that we now have a nationwide standard for the operation and maintenance of the county road network, which Stortinget has called for in many ways. The Committee assumes that adaptation to this standard will take place from the 2000 budget. Finally, I would like to ask the Council of State to note that a unanimous committee once again assumes that if changes are made within the individual tribal route and between the routes, this must be submitted to the Stortinget. If this is not the case, the Committee assumes that the work on the tribal roads will be in line with the Stortingen priorities in the examination of the road map for 98-2007. This is also fixed in the new management system.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1030	I thought I had to speak in this debate. We are discussing the unemployment service, both in connection with the Ministry of Fisheries' budget and in connection with transport. It is largely about trains, roads and airplanes. Once I've gone up to the pulpit, I've always been concerned about security and what's going on on on the coast, and I'll still be. It is incomprehensible to me when, in a letter of 5 August this year, the lascivious person is required to go to savings by refusing overtime for budgetary reasons. So the boats should be lying and waiting, they should not be unloaded, it should only be unloaded in the day – if it is not possible to resolve the dispensations, the pilot can grant a dispensation to vessels so that they can proceed. We have a fairway certificate system. Those fairgrounds are a chapter for myself, so I need a separate article on it. But the essence of the fairway certificates is that you don't even need to be able to speak Norwegian or Scandinavian to travel on the Norwegian coast. It's enough for you to speak English. We will come back to that question, because I have submitted a proposal on it today. This is talking about billions of investments on land – by rail, by roads. There's almost nothing talking about what to invest to facilitate at sea. Overrun this year is 27.5 million. kr on the bulk budget. So we've passed a law that says that we have to be free on the coast. Then 27.5 million will be invested. kr too much for the service to ensure shipping. Is there anything to do? There are small amounts of money compared to the others that have been discussed here – even if the scheme should be self-financing. The activity is going up, more and more is going to be unloaded. There can be no advantage in solving coastal unloading with dispensations and fairways to people who can hardly speak English. A lot of people who come to get a fairway pass come up with an English, so that's as far as they go through the test. And these are going to go on the Norwegian coast and meet other boats! It's a paradox for me. I'll give you a special example. A few days ago, on 2 December, a boat broke off at Lødingen unloading station. They could not get a new job, because then it was overtime. They continued from Lødningen and perished at the Innmukken. The boat, which came from Alta, was loaded with shale and had 130 m3 of heavy oil plus 14 m3 of diesel oil on board. The crew was evacuated by helicopter, the skipper stayed on board. He got the boat off with his own help and got to shore with the help of rescue skates, loose and miscellaneous. The man did not even know where he was when he dried out in the morning. Is that justifiable? It was only the weather that made it not an ecological disaster at Inngmukken. I have to mention one more thing right away. I don't know if it has exactly to do with this case, but I have to be allowed to say it. It's going on in the fisheries and it's going on in the safety field. In the Norne field, Statoil has a production vessel that lies right outside the West Fjord ridge where the screams spawn. They stopped production for two months last fall because they didn't have enough oil protection equipment. Then they started the production, now everything was fine. Then they applied for an exemption to remove the oil protection vessel that they have lying there for security. But then the State’s pollution authorities were so awake that they asked them to test the equipment. And then they dragged out the lenses. What's going on? Well, they had a 22 foot Malo boat -- I have a picture of it here -- and it sank in good weather! It sank! It was the oil protection vessel that Statoil has on Norne! I have reason to believe that preparedness is not much like the other oil fields. I'll come back to this question later.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1047	Since the dawn of time, transportation and communication between people has been a prerequisite for society and nations to develop, in good and bad, and in our own country there have been major changes in the last 150 years — at sea, on land and in the air. This has led to major challenges as traffic has increased, in particular in the field of safety. Although much remains until the arrival and safety are in line with the needs of the users, I think there are few who want to return before 1900. In particular, good communications are important for our industry and trade both within Norway and abroad. In addition to the traditional communication systems, the electronic networks have also evolved and changed their daily lives in the thousands of homes in which the data age has taken up. We have become dependent on power and on our keyboards, as the problems related to the switch to the year 2000 show. But at the same time, technology has made life easier for most people. Machines and robots have taken over heavy and boring tasks, but at the same time have faced new challenges regarding work and leisure. The debate on trade today bears the mark of good wishes. But it is not enough when we know that there is a great need for better progress and road maintenance, but lacks funds. This is particularly pronounced around our big cities, but also in our districts there is a great need for better transport routes for our businesses and our businesses. Consultations in the context of the transport budget also bear the hallmark of great frustration among users of the road network. There is also great frustration among the drivers who do not understand that so little of what the state takes in the car and car use comes back in the form of better roads and better accessibility – and I understand that very well. What can be done to improve the situation? The Progress Party believes that, in addition to increased efforts in the road sector, the rationalisation, efficiency and gradual reduction of the road administration and the transformation of the parts of the Road Administration which include operational and maintenance tasks into a public limited liability company with a view to the subsequent sale of the shares should be initiated. The machinery park of the State Road Administration should be stepped down, while the use of open tenders by private contractors should be stepped up. In this context, the Progress Party considers it important that national public transport resources should only be used for road purposes, including road safety and environmental measures. The assumption must be that road projects have a satisfactory dietary benefit, while improving the promotion of job security and road safety for all users. The Progress Party regards the private car as the most important and necessary means of transport in Norway, especially in the districts. Without access to personal transport to work, school, leisure, purchasing and social contacts, the living conditions of District Norway and the Norwegian population will deteriorate. The Progress Party will therefore continue to fight for lower car charges and stimulate consumers to afford an environmentally sound, safe and energy efficient car fleet. This time, the budget for transport bears the mark of the compromise reached between the cooperating parties and that there is no room for many important road projects. I would also like to point out that there is an increased need for money for operation and maintenance. If we don't take this into account, the cost of society will be higher later. Here the Progress Party hopes to return to its next budget. Over long distances, aeroplanes are superior to all other means of communication. It is therefore important to continue competition in Norwegian domestic aviation and routes from Norwegian airports to abroad. The Progress Party will underline the need for the continuation of a new taxiway at Trondheim Airport Værnes, a new operating building at Tromsø Airport Langnes, a new dispatch building and a new terminal radar at Stavanger Airport Sola and an extension of the baggage hall at Bergen Airport, Flesland. The Progress Party also wants Norwegian maritime transport to be strengthened by making the industry attractive to private interests and for port facilities to be cared for and operated by private operators in line with market needs. The Progress Party is also committed to increasing the deployment of electronic navigation aids, with particular emphasis on electronic navigational charts to improve the safety of both people and goods. In this context, the Progress Party proposed that 3 million be allocated. kr for the final project of the City Ship Tunnel. In the case of the railway, this has good characteristics in the case of heavy goods which are to be carried over long distances and which do not depend on time. But in the case of passenger transport, in my opinion, only the intercity trains can run economically. Here I would also like to draw out the flight, which from today's situation is doing very well, and it is a model that we should also strive for on other routes. I would like to point out that the railway plays a de minimis role in the transport of people and goods in Norway over longer distances. The expenditure on railway operations and investments, in total NOK 4, 6 billion, is very high, taking into account that the railway covers only approx. 4.2 pst. of passenger traffic in Norway and only approx. 4.4 pst. of the carriage of goods. The fact that the NSB has now separated the road in a separate company, the Railway Agency, sees the Progress Party as positive, thereby creating competition in rail transport. I would like to point out that the high investment costs of the railway have very marginal effects in terms of accessibility, capacity and environment. Such impacts are significantly increased by investments in more environmentally friendly roadside measures, both for bus and car use. The Progress Party is based on the fact that in the future, car and road traffic will also play a dominant role in Norwegian transport. The Progress Party has difficulty in seeing how the Government intends to redeploy by reducing car use and giving priority to public transport in this budget. In fact, the investment rate in the main road network has been reduced, but some alternative transport services are not proposed. The result will be a clean cut budget without any tools to solve the problems in Norwegian commerce.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1073	The government's draft budget is adapted to the economic situation with the need for a tight economic policy. When we see the importance of good communications for a country like Norway, we can all want more money for transport. But the appropriations for transport must also be adapted to the economic reality. However, I am pleased that the Government, in the context of a tight economic framework, has found room for a high level of appropriations for key areas of particular importance for road safety, the environment and public transport, and in this context in particular for rail. Through the consideration of the budget by the Transport Committee, the members of the Government Parties have changed slightly on the original priorities of the Government, in order to receive secondary support from the Progress Party and the Right. In this way, it has been possible to have a majority for a proposal which continues the main profile of the Government's proposal. The Committee's proposal means a slightly lower level of operational and maintenance than the Government has proposed. However, the budget continues to signal that a desire to strengthen the maintenance of the highways and the railway's highway, but I should like to see there be room for a greater commitment to maintenance, for there is no doubt that even with these priorities has been substantially delayed. The Committee has made cuts in the rail budget, but continues to increase its budget compared to 1998. It has been considered that the changes in the railway budget should not affect the roll-over of trains. Compared to the Labour Party Government's 1998 budget proposal, the increase in the number of people in the euro area will increase by 235 million in 1999. kr. An important milestone in transport took place on 8 October this year when the new main airport at Gardermoen, as planned, was opened up to regular traffic. At the same time, the Gardermoban – except for the sport of Rome – was put into service. As you know, the road system was completed and opened earlier. The opening of the main aerodrome marks a new time for aviation in Norway. The new airport facilitates the optimal development of air services between the other parts of the country and the capital according to the needs and wishes of the public. What I find most pleasant about the Gardermoen expansion is that the effort on a whole collective arrangement has proved so successful. Even without the sport of Rome, today we have a collective share by train and bus to Gardermoen, which is clearly higher than any other comparable airport. I agree with the Committee that it is very important to use the Rome sport. This will strengthen traffic by train to Gardermoen, and not least radically improve the offer and quality of train traffic throughout the Oslo area. In the case of sentence damage caused by the sport of Rome, the owners of the properties will be kept economically harmless. It is working on a declaration that the NSB is to keep the owners of the house financially harmless for damage caused by the Rome sport. For the concessional areas of East Marka, the application by NSB Gardermobanen AS for amended concession terms is now subject to the Watercourse Act. If the application is granted, the total cost may be lower than the allocation proposal of 550 million. kr. The disappearance of Fornebu means that the Aviation Agency has lost its main source of revenue. Until the Swedish Aviation Agency can obtain a return on the capital injected into Oslo Airport AS, the activity is therefore facing major economic challenges. These are reinforced by the need for technical and operational upgrading of regional airports to facilitate the viable development of this socially important part of the aviation system. It is therefore necessary to maintain and further develop the economically viable parts of the Aviation Agency in order to maximise its capacity to perform its societal tasks. Before the summer of 1998, a solution was found to the capacity problems on the tender routes on Helgeland and the West. Under the agreement between the Ministry of Transport and Ontøe, new aircraft were operated from the beginning of the winter season 1998-99, i.e. at the earliest available air and airport capacity. I am convinced that the extended flight offer will serve the regions well. The Ministry is also in the process of preparing new tender terms for those routes in which the State assumes responsibility for the standard of transport. I can already inform you that there will be tendering conditions that will ensure any production adjustments along the way during the contract period. In road policy, the Ministry presented the 1999 budget with major challenges related to accessibility, the environment and road safety. The challenges in relation to accessibility include: related to the removal of bottlenecks, the repair of the road network to eliminate congestion, the shortening of routes and the securing of a minimum standard, and will require significant investments both in cities, on the tribal roads and in the districts. At the same time, high efforts on the operation and maintenance of the road network are important. The costs of postponing maintenance of built-in facilities are high. In addition to traffic growth and increased road lengths, together with several tunnels and more complex road installations, major operating and maintenance costs. Traffic accidents are a major social problem. It is therefore a major challenge to implement measures that contribute to reducing accident rates. Traffic safety has to a large extent been concentrated to date on the implementation of simple, inexpensive and efficient road safety measures on the road network. Such opportunities will also benefit in the years ahead, but their potential is not as high as in the past. Therefore, increased resources will be required for investment and not least for operation and maintenance in order to achieve fewer accidents, cf. The government's budget proposal profile. In addition, there are major challenges to the commitment on the investment side. The bonds attached to approved and started installations are exceptionally large. This is the result of previous decisions and priorities. With tight budgets, large commitments result in some installations being extended to plant operations and increased costs. This applies in particular to the road sector. For fiscal reasons, the Government considers it necessary in its proposal to provide for a reduction in national road investment. Within this item, a continuation of the ‘minor investment measures’ is a priority. The strong commitment to environmental action has continued in the budget. In addition, a separate environmental action plan for transport was presented in the 1999 budget. This plan provides for an overall review of measures to reduce the environmental problems related to transport. The Ministry of Transport will also shortly present a national racial protection plan. The aim is to provide an overview of the breed protection measures in question for the period up to 2007, but with a focus for the period 1998 to 2001. The re-priorities of the Transport Committee have reduced the budget for operations and maintenance and increased road investment in line with the Government’s arrangements. I have noticed the majority's comments on how different cuts should be implemented. As regards the increase in the investment framework, I will carry out a more detailed technical assessment of the projects for which faster progress is most important, in order to achieve faster completion. The majority of the Committee suggests that, in the event of the suspension of the tax exemption on automotive diesel, compensation should also cover unsubsidised bus routes. I would like to point out that the establishment of compensation schemes for routes outside the county grant schemes will require administrative resources for control and reporting that meet the general requirements of the Storting for such transfer schemes. It will take some time to establish such a scheme. I want to come back to Stortinget with a briefing on the organisation of this system. The Government has placed great emphasis on strengthening the maintenance of the railway infrastructure in its budget line for rail purposes. Good infrastructure maintenance is necessary to improve the operational stability of the train running and maintain a satisfactory standard on the network. Government proposals for operating and maintenance involve nominal growth of approximately 150 million. kr in relation to the scheme in 1998. The commitment to maintenance is in line with the priorities set for the consideration of the Norwegian Railway Plan 1998-2007 and the priorities set by the Railway Agency for its examination of the 1999 budget. Strengthening maintenance is also a prerequisite for maximising the power of the new tiltogens that NSB will operate during 1999-2000. However, the position of the majority of the committee, which has led to a small reduction in relation to the Government’s proposals, implies a growth of well over 100 million. kr in relation to 1998. I am pleased that within a tight budget line, the government found room for continuing heel-train-related investment measures on the southern runway, the Bergensbanen and the Dovrebanen. Reduced travel time and increased frequency associated with the heeling train bet will contribute to enhancing rail competitiveness in relation to aeroplanes and roads on these routes. And let me clear out any doubt about the road: production and measures in 1998 in relation to tilt trains are in line with the appropriations. I am happy about the traffic growth NSB has had this autumn. Since railway infrastructure today has capacity problems on the most central routes, continuing to strengthen railway infrastructure will facilitate further increased market shares. The bet on the flight to Gardermoen has also shown that there are results if a person dares to bet on the railway. The government will therefore continue to invest resources on the railway where it has its advantage in the future, in order to strengthen public transport. The examination within the Committee has led to the remaining amount of 200 million. kr to cover the restructuring obligation of the Item has been proposed to be withdrawn from the budget for 1999. The remaining amount will be included in the draft budget for 2000. It's suggested to take out 700 million. SEK in dividends from Telenor AS in 1999. For fiscal reasons, the dividend share of expected profits in 1998 is significantly higher than the current dividend policy would suggest. At the same time, I point out that the Government will come back with a proposal on sub-privatisation and on the listing of Telenor AS in 1999. The debate on the ownership of the company should await this proposal, but I would already like to assure you that the Government would not have opened up a partial privatisation of Telenor AS if this would result in important societal considerations being set aside. The need for societal management of the telecommunications sector is already addressed primarily by the regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1128	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1131	I want to go back to the budgetary agreement and the financial position and one point that the Council of State partly touched on in its contribution, that is, to open up private financing, construction and operation of road projects. I have noticed the previous statements made by the Council of State that there is no shortage of public funds, but the need to cool down the economy, which is one of the main reasons why road investment has been cut down. Otherwise, I have also noticed that the Council of State has pointed out that it is public to be responsible for the infrastructure. And I have to agree with the Council of State. If we are now to open up private financing, operation and maintenance, it is a new principle that is introduced in relation to road construction in this country, that is, to add up to the return on capital. For no one shall come and tell me other than that if you enter with private capital to build, operate and maintain roads, the return on capital shall be calculated. We either have to take over that bill, or it has to be charged to the user, for example. through a tolling system. I'm not going to ask if the Council of State has changed its mind, but I'm going to ask the Council of State about the following, because I see that he's going to come back to the Stortinget with just this investigation: will the Council of State then add up to a thorough investigation, so that on a principle basis the Stortinget will be given the opportunity to take a debate on this particular issue, not go directly to submit a trial project?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1138	Agreements are agreements, and words are words. It says in the agreement that we should make a proposal based on our assessments of possible pilot projects for private funding, design and development. We'll do that. I would like to take this opportunity to say that, in this context, we will address a broad-based approach to looking at road investment in Norway. I simply think of this proposal as a very good opportunity to come up with a wide range of low-trafficking measures in practice in most political combat situations when it comes to the blade. I have also registered, to say it very dry and simple, that when most people were going to count up their heads and not just run polemics on election promises from 1997, they didn't have as many more dollars available than I had in my budget line. I'm not going to run polemics with that, I'm just going to dryly notice that this year I've said that I don't have any money other than those you see I have. I find that when it comes to the eczema, not so many others have it either. Then it is actually a rather important scheme that lies in the initiative that I believe, among other things. The representative, Oddvard Nilsen, is behind us, who suggests that we can say on a broad basis that we are doing, for fiscal reasons, almost – allow me, President, to say – idiotic performances of projects. We have to save ourselves in some areas because we're going to help bring down the interest rate, and because we can't cut down on maintenance. The representative Red Road is asking if we're going to make sure that it's going to be thorough, and I understand why the question is formulated that way. My answer is a clear yes. There must be an opportunity to have a broad and good debate on these vital issues.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1145	The President has doubts that the term 'idiotic' is parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1148	It was a good and interesting review the Minister for Transport had of the whole transport problem. It went fast, he probably read as fast as we get spent the money for the Rome sport. The Minister of Transport is very concerned that public transport should also solve all transport problems in this country, but in reality, the road network is responsible for the large transport, whether it be of people or goods. These are the realities we just have to deal with, whether we like it or not. The road sector has suffered from a workers' party government, and there is now almost as bad during the centre government. Right is going to be right, we finally got 150 million. kr extra, but that money put the jam deep in. I am concerned whether the Minister for Transport will deal with the fact that road capital is constantly deteriorating in the country, and that there are an incredible number of road projects with a good cost-benefit effect that are not being started and not being built. When is the Government prepared to make a strong demand in this sector? Then you were also so much involved in the use of the tilt trains last year, and I saw an entry about it on the news today. It would have been interesting to get a little account of whether it is correct that the tilting trains were used for operation and maintenance, or whether it was used for tilting trains. You were into it, but you were so quick when you read your document, that I almost hung a line after!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1159	It is clear that several representatives are with the Minister of Transport, but in the Stortinget, all should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1162	Let me first say that I understand the President's reaction to my expression, but I didn't find a shorter version to describe it. I can take it again: in the case of the 243 million. In 1998, the work and measures will be carried out in 1998, but partly due to late work, including: because this was largely processed in June, some of the invoices will be settled next year. However, appropriations will be used, and actions will be implemented. There's no reason to let there be any doubt about it. The money is intended to be spent on routes on the southern runway, the Dovrebanen and the Bergensbanen. I expect the NSB and the Railway Agency to send information about this to the public today, so there is no doubt about it. So the question that was raised by the representative about the deterioration of road capital. Yes, I'm very aware of that. There were some people last year who, among other things, After some of my rounds here, I was very tired of talking about maintenance on the road and maintenance on the track. That was a priority. And there's no doubt that the Workers' Party did the same thing last year as they do this year, namely scrape the maintenance to build new projects. Clearly, as a result of the cooperation we have had with the Right Party and the Advance Party in the Committee, much less of the maintenance effort has been taken. Of course, it was not a problem to agree with the two parties, because it was agreed that the road capital had to be maintained. One knows that of course a responsible road service will provide winter maintenance. But if one then defers the maintenance appropriations – and here, for example, Working party 260 million. kr – yes, so it goes on the evenness of the road, it goes on the edges, it goes on the quality of everything. My priorities have been to strengthen the maintenance side through two budgets. And put on the top: it's better when you have little money, to maintain what you have, than to build new ones. Then in some cases it must lead to a delay in any action, and I described it in a direct way in my opening post and in the answer to the previous line. The representative of Thore Aksel Nistad and I fully agree that despite these priorities, there is a significant lag in maintenance.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1173	Can I correct an obvious misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1180	Yes, under doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1183	I must be allowed to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that the Workers' Party does not propose new projects. It is about having more rational progress on projects already under way, so that they do not become significantly more costly and that the overall use of road resources is better than it would otherwise be.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1191	Can I answer the obvious misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1199	The Council of State can do that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1202	I'm aware of this. But I have actually tried to focus my attention on the Workers' Party's discovery of this re-prioritisation. I think that this invasion has almost had no attention here today at all. You balance it by taking care of operations and maintenance, and you don't have to wrap it up. I never used to wrap up what I stand for, and no one else needs to. You want more money to avoid uneconomical progress, but you age it by throwing you over operations and maintenance, and it has its consequences. But fortunately, the incubators will continue to cross the Domenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1207	Then the political debate – and the change of lines – can continue.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1210	I am pleased that there will be a notice from the Railway Agency about the use of the tilting agents, if any, but it might be interesting to confirm that the following production from the Council of State is correct: it was in 1998 in St.prp. No 64 for 1997-98 said that due to tight management at the Railway Agency, 96 million could be transferred. until 1998. These funds were to be used for tilting train measures. In addition, the budget for 1998 was allocated, I believe, approximately. Seventy-five million. kr, and return to the revised national budget by an additional 72 million. kr. Then it comes out later, as it says in Document No. 1 for 1998-99, that NSB had unpaid invoices from 1997 of 352 million. kr. How they could have a profit of 95 million. kr, is a mystery to me, but leave it alone. It is also true that the department in two letters in the committee has replied that it is correct that there was a total deferral of payment for the Railway Agency of 352 million. kr from 1997 to 1998. There are answers from the ministry to question 1. It is also true that for question 6 the ministry writes the following: ‘Parts of the 1998 adopted allocation for tilting train measures could thus be used to cover additional consumption in 1998 under item 23 Operation and maintenance.’ Is this right? In that case, I don't get it quite to vote. This means that funds must be used for operational and maintenance appropriations in 1998.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1224	To put it in order: it was first proposed in the budget for 75 million. kr for roll-over measures, additional appropriations were proposed for the revised national budget 168 million. NOK, which was a partial transfer from last year of 96 million. kr, the rest was then a mere additional appropriation. Then we have in the state budget for this year and in the new age for this year referred to the so-called overhanging challenge within the Railway Agency. There we have said that in order to solve this, we need a transfer between the posts operation, maintenance and investment for this year, and that will be resolved next year. So it's explained how this relates, and it's been accepted by the Storting. If there were any uncertainties, I checked with the Railway Agency today and received an answer that the money that was allocated – 243 million. 1998 – this year will be used for work and roll-over measures. I have had to check that, and that has been confirmed is the correct answer. But I believe that misunderstanding can arise by looking at aspects of how the overhang issues are resolved, which the Committee has accepted both in the downturn for this year – one of the issues today – and in the proposal for next year's budget. But I can confirm that the 243 million. kr until roll-over measures are used, so they will be applied to work and action. But not all of that money will be paid this year, because the billing is done so that it is settled in some cases a month later, and many of the work is done in November and December of this year. That's the explanation of what's going on in the case of tilting trains and 243 million. kr in the 1998 budget. That's what I tried to say in a short sentence, and I tried to explain how the context of this is. There's two things here. It is the banknote, and it is the management of the so-called hanging problem, which is based on the cash principle in relation to the Constitutional Committee and a budgetary solution within the 1998 and 1999 budget. You're told that there's money for it, there's money for it, and you need these two budgets to sort it out. The Stortinget has received a full presentation of this.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1231	At the time of the presentation of the State budget earlier in the autumn, the Minister of Transport had what we call a fairly high cigarette feed in the presentation of transport investments and projects for next year. In particular, the increase in the railway budget, and in particular the operational and maintenance side, was highlighted. Then during the autumn we have been through two conciliations, first a conciliation with the parliamentary leaders in its night hours, and then a conciliation in the committee, also in its night hours. The result has been that the Railway Agency’s budget has reached 65 million. kr less than that government council had a high cigarette lead at the beginning of October, while there is an agreement to cut 20 million. kr of the so-called big city funds. Now the Minister for Transport will probably say that there is still more than the current year's level of railway investment and of railway maintenance. That's right. But I still want to ask the question, since this was presented so generously on 5 October at the presentation of the state budget, what are the cuts that we have now seen during the autumn, 35 million. NOK 30 million for operation and maintenance. SEK for investments at the Railway Station and SEK 20 million. kr. in metropolitan means, concretely? In addition, is the Minister of Transport now satisfied with the railway and collective effort we see after two years of treatment of the central government budget? And: Is the Minister of Transport satisfied with the agreement with the Right Party and the Advance Party and with the fact that it was the Railway Agency that had to take the biggest cut on the road? And finally, do we now, after two central government budget treatments, see the new course in transport policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1240	I am pleased that the main arrangement of the Government's draft budget is intact after the cooperation with the Right and the Advance Party. A rapid headcount: instead of an increase in railway maintenance, operation and investments of approx. 8 pst., there was 6 pst., and where for the sum of operations, maintenance and initial investments was zero, there was 2 pst. So there was a certain displacement, but the main device is still there. It is clear that there was a very tight framework, and within that framework it is a reality that the three centre parties and the two right parties found each other in a change. When it was fair, it was because the alternative to the Labour Party budget would be to take 260 million. NOK of operation and maintenance on the road, which, in my opinion, I would find very irresponsible, because of the considerable delays we have in terms of road capital and the consequences for road safety and accessibility. As far as the collective investment is concerned, it is quite right that it is the nominal figure from last year, 140 million. kr, which is continued. But I hope by seeing this in conjunction with other measures available to the ministry, and not least because of the increased effort we have got on the railway, to defend the budget. It has to be that it's in the moments of truth at the government table you're being tested. It was also the case that when last year's workers' party government budget was on the table, there were 75 million. kr for tilt trains. When the Workers' Party in the Main Room found reason to give more priority, it was because they took care of the Bondevik government's additions for this year on maintenance, rail and road and moved it to the heel trains. In our overall arrangement, I can defend this. I can defend the device on it and the context of it. It is clear that we are faced with the choice that 260 million could be risked. kr of operating and maintenance money had been moved without any attempt to prevent it, it would have been very irresponsible – very irresponsible and very short-sighted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1253	I also do not find it so very responsible to move money from railway and metropolitan funds to road. It is clear that there will be less sleepers and pucks when the maintenance of the railway is weakened in the comparisons. But I thought I would start from what the council said about not wrapping in the words, and not hiding what you stand for. Among other things, he said: now that the capacity of the regional grid on Helgeland and in Sogn and Fjordane had increased and that it would serve the regions. I agree. But when he said that, I came to think that in July there was a press release from the department saying that the cost of this would be a sprawling layer between the state and the onions. Of course, there should have been a bell ringing at my place, because there was no splinter layer between the state and the onions, there was a splinter layer between the state and the users of the onions, it was those who were flying, who had to pay for a double price increase. There's this stuff about wrapping up words and saying something other than what's real. I am also a little surprised when I read in the budget that you continue to withdraw money because you have opened up tenders, and you think there is a rationalization effect here. Now the left was not in the committee before, but the center has always been against doing that. They thought it was a wrong tool, it wasn't sure it got that effect, and besides, if you got more efficiency, it could boost public transport if you kept the money. The same is true with full compensation for autodiesel. I have always wondered: what is in ‘full compensation’ if it turns out that the estimate is 70 million. SEK or 50 million. Does sub-coverage become a reality? And then you say, well, you don't want to get back to that. What is the use of words as ‘full compensation’, if anything other than full compensation is meant? This has to do with rhetoric, it has to do with wrapping things and in a way portraying reality as something other than what it is, and as the councillor said he didn't want to do, and didn't use to do.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1264	The representative Myrvoll really wants it to be something other than what it says. He wants full reimbursement, but it says ‘compensation’, and it is made in connection with the State budget that he wants some incentives for sensible operation. However, the amount of compensation shall be taken into account for that to be the case and the amount proposed is adopted here today. What I can say is that I know that the airlines are exposed to many migration challenges, and on a general basis I want to follow up on the transition challenges in order to be sure that road users benefit from the results. In the posts of the representative Myrvoll there is also a question about something that does not belong to my department, but the government, namely the framework grant to the states. I want to take the initiative to evaluate what is happening, because I have recorded that for a number of years, efficiency gains have been foreseen. And one must be able to raise the question of whether the reward shouldn't be like that. What happens now in Oslo, where you say that if you're good, you get to keep some of the results because you're good. I want to take the initiative to raise that debate. As far as the situation in Helgeland is concerned, it was meant as stated in the press release this summer, but it has become so that the company takes something on board. That's what we had to do to get what we got. And the representative Myrvoll would have preferred that we not comply with the EEA rules or similar rules. We had to do that. Within those limits, we worked as quickly as possible to get an offer in place. And we've made that clear. We can enjoy that. As regards the general guidelines for air transport policy, they are known. I relate to what I think is right, and that the bulk of the population has supported. I am particularly pleased that we received a good offer. We got an extended Onions offer on Helgeland and on the West, and that was the result of working intensively to get the practical result on the table. Many people thought we wouldn't get it done, and many even thought that we didn't work at the time we actually worked. But we did. And it's not through press releases you work, you work through the practical craftsmanship, and then you send out press releases when you're in the target. And that's what we did.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1275	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1278	Good transport solutions are a prerequisite for increased value creation for business and thus for enhanced rural settlements, and for creating well-functioning urban and local communities. In 1997, there was no way of putting up with the criticisms of the Labour Party. Then it was just to increase the appropriations for all good purposes, not least for transportation. In the budget debates that have taken place in this Chamber to date this year, no government councils from the Bondevik Government have until now taken responsibility for their own policies. It's been the Workers' Party's fault, anyway. I hope and believe that the Minister for Transport will be an exception, I have basically got a positive impression so far. It is necessary to see investments in road, public transport, aviation and ports in a context. Traffic and environmental problems in major cities and districts are different. Even I come from a state where we are totally dependent on a car to maintain residence and business. I am therefore disappointed that the civil parties do not cooperate with the Workers' Party in continuing the planning of, for example, Rv 2 in Hedmark. It stood in Norwegian road and road traffic plan, and was adopted. Otherwise, in the case of Rv 2, I ask the Right to take a talk with the Right-Representative from Hedmark, because there has been no lack of strong opinions from that edge. Measures that can reduce the use of cars need to focus primarily on areas of the country where public transport is a real alternative. The working party therefore wants to bet on both bus and rail. I am therefore pleased that there was a majority to give full compensation for the car diesel charge for buses, also for express buses. I am pleased that the Council of State clearly signals that we are going to evaluate this scheme, and I would like to say that we should perhaps come back to the revised national budget if it turns out that the amount of the reimbursement has to be adjusted. Railway investments must aim at increasing safety, punctuality and capacity and reducing travel time. It is particularly possible in the populous areas where the railway has the potential to be an environmentally friendly alternative. In order to bet on tilting trains and the means are scarce, it is important to do something really where traffic is greatest. For the Dovrebanen, there will be the greatest gain of a rate on crossing tracks between Eidsvoll and Hamar, more specifically in Stage. I am pleased that the Workers' Party joined in their remarks about investing in safe transport for children by bus to and from school. A unanimous committee has asked the Ministry to assess whether requirements should be introduced for seating positions for school children, as this means a safety gain for the smallest students. In this context, I would like to praise the Norwegian Automobile Association, the NAF, which has had many campaigns in the field of road safety prevention aimed at children on school roads. NAF has been training adults among its 450,000 members to draw the attention of road users to the fact that 6-year-olds react differently in traffic than larger children — yes, even different from 7-year-olds. NAF junior also provides good training for young drivers and escorts. Governments know my commitment to youth and motor. A necessary training process is carried out at the Norwegian Traffic Centre in Våler, Hedmark. My commitment is to give young people a natural relationship to a car, to teach them respect for the horsepowers for which 18-year-olds are to take their own responsibility. The car is a very good friend, but an incredibly dangerous toy. Therefore, nothing has to be unbridled to reduce road accidents. I'm aware that many people don't like motorsports. But there's an incredible number of accidents, unfortunately, also in other sports, so let at least young people also unfold within this sport under controlled forms.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1300	Let me begin by stating that the Right-wing Transport Policy objective is for all parts of the country to have a modern infrastructure. We must have an extension that keeps up with the needs, but the cost of development must be proportionate to the benefits. It also applies to the railway. There has been a strong growth in access to rail resources since 1990. The share for railway purposes went up from 34 pst. to 40 pst. in 1997, while the market shares in freight and passenger traffic were +2 pst respectively. and -1 pst. from 1996 to 1997. With this background, it goes without saying that strong growth cannot continue, and that greater emphasis needs to be placed on the effective use of the means at its disposal. The right is satisfied with the fact that there is finally a majority in favour of making an organisational distinction between the Railway Agency and the NSB BA. This is as we know a matter that we in the Right have fought ever since the reorganisation of the NSB. An organisational separation will facilitate the establishment of competition in rail transport. This is important in order to improve quality and service in the railway sector. The right-hand side expects the Government to make the necessary regulatory changes during 1999 to open up the Norwegian rail network to competition. Unfortunately, there is no majority to convert the NSB into a limited liability company. Such reorganisation would have provided the NSB with the conditions necessary for it to operate efficiently and competitively. Unfortunately, the notification of the cancellation of the NSB, which the Stortinget is due to deal with in the spring session, confirms what the Right has pointed out, that today’s organisation of the NSB does not allow the necessary conversion to be carried out. The right is not satisfied with the need to exchange letters with the Ministry in order to obtain an overview of the revenue of the Railway Agency, and is expected to leave it at the next budgetary procedure. The right-hander records that the Rome Gate has not yet been completed. Unfortunately, the project has resulted in very high costs both economically and environmentally, and the Stortinget will evaluate the project at a later stage and then draw the necessary conclusions. For the Right, it is important that the sentence injuries in the areas around Hellerud, Godlia and Ellingsrud are taken seriously. Here it is important to repair the damage found and prevent new ones from occurring. It is taken as a matter of course that those who have suffered damage to their property are kept economically harmless. It is gratifying that the capacity problems of Unionoe’s routes on the West and Helgeland now seem to be solved. It is possible to draw lessons from the problems created by the need for increased capacity in this case, so that for contracts concluded below, the possibility of adapting the route offer to changing needs is open. Finally, a little bit about Leirin. An overall committee indicates that the State has assumed responsibility for the organisation of the airport for the activities carried out there, cf. routes abroad to SAS, the major charter establishment and Fernere airport as possible alternative airport to Gardermoen. It is important to note that the majority of the Committee assumes that the closure of grants to the Fereners-Oslo-Bergen route does not affect the operation of the aerodrome. In the opinion of the Right, the future of Leirin should not be dependent on an unremunerated Ferenes-Oslo-Bergen flight. The State has assumed a responsibility for the airport of Fenerne, and I expect that to be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1326	Today's debate involves everyone. Transport, communication and organization of it are essential whether we live in town, in districts or along the coast. The goal of linking the different districts closer to each other by removing bottlenecks and obstacles must be task number. 1st@item: inlistbox But how we find the political solutions is something else. Business has always been in favour of better communication. The time and route between production and distribution has always been under lupa. This is not least the case in the fishing industry. But there's one not only dependent on the usual path, no, in addition, has a highway no. 1, the seaway, with its challenges. I mention the lack of up-to-date charts, the lack of maintenance of lighthouses, the lack of buoys and fairways, the lack of port development, the lack of maintenance of the investments already made in ports, fairways and moles, the lack of follow-up and investment in projects that had been submitted to the Stortinget and that were to be built. The working party therefore considers it necessary to redispatch 12 million. in addition to the efforts made by the Government to obtain more funds for development in the area of fishing ports and port improvements, and to come up against the investment framework underpinned by this four-year period. We take seriously the challenges and damage caused by winter storms. We have stated in our notes that investment items and operating items should be separate. The Council of State has indicated that he does not mean it, but the Labour Party nevertheless believes that such budgetary management would be preferable. The Labour Party has also noted the lack of information between the Department and the accumulation of outsourced funds. Nevertheless, once I have said what I have said, there is no reason why I would just criticise the Minister for Fisheries, and there is also a sign of how vocally the transport link between land and water is viewed in the overall picture. I have to point to the situation before the lozenest. As we have said before, unloading must be self-financed. That's all the parties some in. Yet, that has been overrun in the last year. Yes, we've actually come into such a mess that all ships now for a three-year period are charged an extra charge to get up-to-date with the exceedances. Furthermore, the Coast is under the lupa. A selection is about to be selected. Reorganisation and rationalisation measures may result. We're all looking forward to that review. Merging of multiple etaters has not given us the prize we expected. The frustration among the workforce is great. The danger of a flight of competences is imminent, and that is actually what the Coastal Works need at all costs. The situation is serious. The National Audit Office has had critical comments, so this is where Stortinget gets a real pleasure to crack. But the Council of State would like to make a recommendation, wouldn't it? The release notice is also announced in the spring session. Here we will have the opportunity to see maritime traffic and safety together. We just have to bring in the balast bag that fees and charges do not have to be so large that goods on ships are landed, so that there is more heavy traffic on the roads. In the national transport plan presented in 2000, one of the main tasks should be to make use of the knowledge we already have in the professional community, much more so than today. We have to get away from that thug where the road lives its life, its railway and its seafaring. It is likely that the departments of closer cooperation will also be able to make important contributions to the most rational work possible. As we understand, we will not be unemployed for the first time in the Committee on Transport. The wishes and needs are formally in line. The only problem is that the money bag didn't stretch. There are many around the country who had great confidence in the civilians in the election campaign in 1997. It helps only so little, because the reality has now gone up for most people. It was something else to sit in opposition and express that one had bottomless money for everything, also for transportation. Now it's quiet. I also want to right the Minister of Fisheries' idea of the construction of the City Ship Tunnel. Can he tell if his assessments are against the project being scrapped, or can the inhabitants and seafaring look to get the new fairway? In case, what kind of time perspective does he give? I know what's in the budget. Can we expect the Government to come with its final proposal in its revised budget for 1999? As county representatives, we all have our state-owned horses, and so is I. I still want to say that I usually do not send such Christmas greetings as these two copies I want to come in here. The first applies to the filling of Steinsfjorden. The fourth year’s budgetary procedure sets out this environmental road policy bomb on the map. The distribution work that was seen going on then, goes to the end, and the warnings that have come from there are really bad. Toxicity concentration is alarming. Old traffic sins must appear on the case map, I am therefore glad that such problems will hardly occur anymore. Cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment and local authorities is far better today than it has been. We expect a briefing on this in an appropriate way when the report is in progress. One question should be: can measures to be taken there be combined with the railway abbreviation on Bergensbanen? Another regional problem is the morning train from Hallingdal – as I am. is in progress. The County Council and the State are happy with the 1999 offer, as the Council of State has briefed in response to the Committee. It's a train offer for 20,000 – 24 000 people we talk about, it's their chance to travel collectively and come to Oslo before 2:00 a.m. However, when there were no demands for financial support for the Committee to join this, I am surprised that we did not get a unanimous committee to comment on. I just signal everything now that the Labour Party will come next year, and then we ask for money. It must be important for us all to take care of the customer base, so that the tilting train can take along people who live along the line, when the train arrives on the rails in 2000. Finally, I would like to say a little about a road trip to Kongsberg, which has so far stopped in a gravel hole – I am talking about Rv 134. Although it now seems to be light in the tunnel, or that the case is in a box, the lid is not turned on yet, but at least we have been able to find practical solutions in a fissure layer, and we may be able to clean up old traffic sins, old promises. There are just a few more left, and I expect a more realistic future in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1360	Coastal management is vital for the communities along the Norwegian coast and accounts for about half of the Ministry of Fisheries budget. Coastal management includes the development of ports and fairways, lighthouses and fairgrounds, electronic navigation aids and pilot services, thus covering all coastal infrastructure of the fishing fleet and shipping. Total appropriations for next year amount to more than 912 million. kr. I have noticed the comments that have come from the Committee on Financial Management in the Coastal Directorate. As part of improving financial management, a separate financial department has been set up in the Directorate this year. In the 1999 budget, the Government proposes inter alia: earmarking parts of the real increase of 4,4 million. kr on cap. 1060 to strengthen the planning and financial function of the Directorate. More resources have also been allocated to port planning and competence building. The report of the Coastal Commission, such as will review the entire organisational structure of the Coastal Works, will also address issues related to the Coastal Works’ financial management. The report is expected to be available before the end of the year. In view of this, the Ministry will assess, inter alia: the chapter and postal structure and the form of connection to the Coastal Directorate. The Ministry aims at a rapid follow-up so that, in the autumn of 1999, proposals can be made for measures to improve the management and resource use of the Coastal Plant. The budget is on the line. 1064 Port Service has been proposed to increase by 15 million. kr in relation to the adopted budget for this year. This is part of the Government’s commitment to the development, maintenance and modernisation of the fishing ports. The storms in winter and autumn 1997 caused major damage to the molons in Hasvik and Årviksand. It was considered important to repair the damage as soon as possible in order to prevent the damage from developing to an extent. It is true, as the Committee points out, that this has led to installations which were announced in the 1998 budget proposal being implemented only in 1999 or later. At the time of the presentation of the budget, it will not be possible to take account of major mole damage occurring during the financial year. When such damage occurs, there must be consequences for the other activities. I have taken note of the Committee's proposals for, inter alia: to split the cap. 1064 item 30 Fishing port facilities in two items, one for investment and one for operation and maintenance. The Ministry will keep under review all measures that can contribute to improving the efficiency and rationality of port services. The Coast Guard Port Service Disposal Plan for next year set out an amount greater than previously planned and to cover repair costs incurred during the financial year. There is a significant need for means of maintenance in the case of fireworks. Necessary maintenance work consists, inter alia, of: repair of storm and storm damage, damage to the passageways and other damage to the infrastructure, and upgrading of technical equipment on first-time operations — lights and lanterns. When the Government has chosen not to propose a higher level of funding under Chapter 1065 Fire Service, this is due to the need for budgetary constraints. More funds have been allocated to more maintenance work in 1999 than in the current year, at the expense of new investments. The increase is considered sufficient to maintain safety in 1999. For the treatment of the new unemployment and unemployment benefit system in the Stortinget, it was provided that the financial framework for the unemployment service was to be maintained almost constant for a transitional period of two years from the introduction of the system until it was evaluated. Due, inter alia, to: However, increased traffic has increased demand for unloading services. Increased demand has made it necessary to increase overtime use, with the consequence that costs have increased more than proportional to traffic trends. This and other conditions have made it necessary to increase the appropriations for the unloading service. I am pleased that the majority of the committee has joined the proposed increase in the allocation of the pilot service. The revenue framework for the unloading fees for 1999 is higher than the expenditure framework for the pilot service, as the expected under-cover of the pilot service in 1998 is covered over three years, as endorsed by the majority of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1379	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1382	State Council Peter Angelsen did not in his five minutes have the opportunity to answer questions about the City Tunnel. I will therefore take it up now, and ask him how he looks at the future of such a tunnel. The construction of the City Tunnel will be important for the safety of the weather-hard area around Town. A/S Road Deck has offered to construct a car tunnel through which the intended tunnel would arrive, and thus see what kind of rock there is. They are also willing to give a fixed price and investigate what it would cost. My question is, could the Minister for Fisheries think of being in a fissure layer? A good deal of preliminary studies have already been carried out in this area, so there is only a little left – it has been done on a local initiative. I would like to ask if it is not possible for the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Transport together to go into what a tunnel will cost, so that it could be a fissure layer. There will also be a need for a car tunnel. As the road crossing the City today is of such a poor nature, this applies both to boat traffic and to car traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1391	When last autumn the Government presented a proposal for a new review, a new investigation, of the construction of a ship's tunnel within the State, in connection with the budget, it was assumed that the new investigation would first be submitted, and it would be considered whether it would be advisable to build such a tunnel, in particular with regard to the safety of passage of ships through the tunnel. The background to a new investigation was that in the previous investigation a very expensive operating system was provided to ensure safety. It was estimated that a completely new investigation would be carried out on the part of the Coastal Directorate. Eight million. kr. In the tight budgetary situation we are in, we found in the Ministry of Fisheries that we should look into whether a new investigation could be carried out in a much more reasonable way, including in particular. by going through the previous material and seeing what had to be done with new investigations. And we've assumed, as stated in the proposition, that once the budget has been dealt with in the Stortinget, and if the Ministry's proposal comes to an agreement, we will contact the relevant county councils that have previously entered into the tunnel and that would also like to contribute financially to this investigation, and then we could go together through the material we have, and look at what we needed to do about new investigations. And that will be done, since I understand that it is in line with the proposals of the Department. After all, the Ministry will be responsible for the operation of such a tunnel and it should also be the responsibility of the Ministry to determine whether and how it is to be built.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1396	I refer to what the Council of State just said about the City Tunnel. The Committee uses one page to mention this project, and the Government has, as I said, previously agreed to a pre-project in the Stortinget. But the zeal has probably diminished a little after the center party came into government position, and we fondly remind ourselves that this is a project that both the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have marketed insidiously and programmically. Similarly, we have been criticised by other political stakeholders in the project for not being fully confirmed in this matter. Today it seems that the progress piece will try to appear as the most straight line at this point. Three million. kr in their proposals can be interpreted from a previous line exchange as advocating a private company that does not have the status of implementation. At the same time, the Progress Party refrains from participating in a plural note with the Right and the Government Party which would oblige the Council of State to use the corresponding amounts from existing budget line according to its own schedule but for the same purpose. My question is therefore: can the Council of State confirm that he will as well as be able to set up his proposals with the Progress Party, but then in the Ministry's direction, so that we get real progress in the project for the coming year?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1410	As I said in my previous answer, the Ministry of Fisheries will have to take responsibility for both operation, investigation and construction of such a tunnel. Whether or not to do so privately becomes a different matter, but in that case it will be in relation to a tender document that the investments will be announced in response to tenders. What I can say is that, in cooperation with the relevant county municipalities, which were mentioned, we will go through the material available. On the basis of our calculations, we will be able to implement this within the budgetary framework we have today, with the means of investigation we have put into use, and the reserve we have within the port budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1417	There are a number of important and critical comments regarding coastal management in the Committee’s position. I take it as a matter of course that the Council of State is following up the comments of the Committee and also the progress that the Committee requires. This will include, inter alia: the Ministry not only assesses this, but in fact proposes the splitting of the port extension chapter already into spring, and that the follow-up of the Coastal Commission will come in autumn 1999. I also take it for granted that the Council of State follows up the comment of a majority of the Committee, where they assume that the remaining work in the port of Svartne will start up in 1999. What I want to draw attention to is the situation in the fireworks service, where the remarks from the department of the proposition are relatively serious. The Committee has requested that the Ministry facilitate a review of the quality of the fireworks service as soon as possible, so that it can also be submitted to the Stortinget by the autumn of 1999. In this context, the Committee has stated that it would like to see the use of the external trade-union environment, for example: companies carrying out quality assessment and certification can be considered here. I assume that by carrying out such a review, you will have a better basis for assessing the status of the service and, if necessary, assessing the need for funding in order to correct any deficiencies, and I would like to ask the Council of State to state whether he has any assessment of how such a review can be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1426	The Ministry will, of course, review the position put forward by the Committee and look at the majority comments that are made there. In concrete terms, the breakdown of port development appropriations, which is around 150 million. Of course, we will review it and present our assessment to the Committee. But I can't immediately see that it can lead to more production within the port service. On the contrary, it may be involved in locking the funds in a way that could lead to an rational use of materials and personnel. But we will come back to that matter. With regard to the deepening of the port of Svartnes, the Ministry has not included it among the facilities to be started up to next year because we do not see any urgent need for it, among other things. because one has not reached the level of investment in the fish production plant so that it will hardly be used next year. Port is still useful for the fleet type, but we will of course follow up on what has been said earlier. Once the fishing industry is established and put into service, port works shall also be carried out. If Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen believes that work should be started next year, it must necessarily lead to the relocation of other port facilities within the existing allocation proposals, which seem to have a majority. In that case, it would be regrettable if the department were required to take out other port facilities and we were not given the opportunity to implement our intention to complete all port facilities that are under construction. It's a wrong strategy, in my view, to stop the ongoing plant to start up new ones.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1436	As the Council of State said, he's got 980 million. kr within its territory, which shall cover many purposes of invaluable importance for the value-creating coast of Norway. It's only half of what a road project that the Triangle Connection has now come into being in price, and that's his entire budget. His investment budget in ports and fairways is less than 200 million. kr of the year – to get the dimensions of this! In the four-year plan, a target of 854 million was reached. NOK, and in relation to the four-year plan we now have approx. 60 million. in succeeding, sail if the frames have been small. I don't know how serious it is to take it, but the Central Party had its own framework for the port plan for the four-year period, where they increased from 854 million. NOK 1200 million. SEK, and in relation to that, we're at 230 million. kr i lagp. But maybe we're not going to put such a big emphasis on that. Just because these frames are reasonably limited and of invaluable importance, I ask the Council of State to have some scepticism about the pressure he now has on the City Tunnel. Next year, 37 million will be used. kr on fairways, and the City Tunnel becomes such a fairway. This may mean that ten annual budgets for fairways are spent on one such project, or if you take fishing ports and fairways together, there will be two annual budgets that can go with it. Then I think it's going to be a crazy priority, just as I think it's been a crazy priority to start up the port of Svartnes, that you haven't priorityed right there, but it's the former state councils that have to take responsibility for. My question is then: Is there any chance of taking back the 60-million-dollar delay? kr for investments in fairways and ports? And do the Council of State agree that it may be irresponsible to use several annual budgets on one project, as the City Tunnel is?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1447	It is true that port investment is significantly below the level provided by the Stortinget in the context of the Landfill Communication and long-term investment in this sector. It is also true that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party were at a much higher level than what was agreed by the Stortinget, and that the central government should thus have a responsibility to raise the investments. I see it clearly, and take it inwards me. After all, we made a raise in investments last year of 8 million. kr, in the current year, an increase of 5 million. kr in relation to last year's budget, and we are now trying to increase the appropriations for next year by 15 million. kr in relation to the initial allocation this year. Within a tight economic framework, the government has prioritised port expansions. This is necessary when looking at all the projects for which there is a wish to develop, not least in terms of the fairways. When it comes to putting it all up against the City Ship Tunnel, it is clear that the City Ship Tunnel is an investment of such size that it must be seen in a total context of the State budget's investment budget and cannot be seen alone within the framework we have today for the development of fishing ports and fairways. There is something we need to get back to when the investigation shows the usefulness, the operational capability and the safety of the operation of such a tunnel. I believe that it will be a great social benefit for this part of the country, both for scheduled and smaller shipping, to have this fairway, which will create a much greater security for those who travel on the sea, not only in one of the worst, but the worst, the storm zone we have on the Norwegian coast.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1456	After I got into the political work in the transport sector, I have to say it has pleased me that the acts of conduct are very responsive to the signals given by Stortinget. This is also illustrated in the presence of the bigotry debate. However, I was somewhat concerned about Angelsen's answer to my previous question, precisely because on two points where there is a majority in the Committee, he did not immediately acknowledge that there was a majority in the Committee. The council said he should of course consider the distribution of the chapter. That is not what the majority of the committee is asking for. The Committee asks for proposals to be submitted for distribution, not for an assessment of the distribution, but for proposals for the allocation of the chapter. The reason why you're asking for it to be done that way is that you'll be able to go in more detail and see how much it should be in each post. So it's a reality that's happening today, that there should be two entries, that there should no longer be just one item. The second was the question of the port of Svartne, where the Council of State argued against what the majority of Stortinge's opinion in the vote. I would like to stress that the majority here is saying: ‘The majority expect the remaining development work to start in 1999.’ I expect the Council of State to follow up on the majority comments underlying this position – I don't just expect it, I take it as a matter of course. At least that is a well-meaning advice that it should be done.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1473	It is well the case in all contexts, including between the Storting and the Government, that a government council is allowed to assess what the Storting writes in a comment, and come back to Stortinget with its assessment. So the Storting has to make a decision. If the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen wants it to be an order to the Council of State, he can, as a proposal, promote it and see whether the Stortinget will go directly on it without having it evaluated. In that case, I think it would be to go a little too far, to make decisions without having carefully assessed the consequences of such a decision. I hope it is not the intention of the representative of Mr Schjøtt-Pedersen, who has been the Minister for Fisheries. As far as the port budget is concerned, I would say that the burden here and the criticism that comes particularly from the Workers' Party and Schjøtt-Pedersen that we do not follow the priorities set by him in the current year's budget is due to the fact that Schjøtt-Pedersen, as Minister for Fisheries, did not take account of the molo damage that occurred during his period, which now appears to cost almost 30 million. kr. Is it so to understand that former fisheries minister Schjøtt-Pedersen believes that the moros damage was not to be repaired, that the most important thing was to follow the priority list he presented for the development of new ports, so that we would have the ports in Hasvik and in Årviksand lapse and be destroyed? The most important thing for me was that the damage was repaired as soon as possible, so that they did not evolve further as it was risky. The location and priority of the repairs were presented to the Storting in the new aging proposition last autumn and in the revised budget in spring. It was then given a full description of what had happened, and how large the cost estimates were, and there was no comment from Stortinget that it would be done otherwise than the Council of State stated. This must necessarily lead to the postponement of the priority installations initially decided by the Storting. That's the situation, and we suggest that we get the most rational operation possible, so that we get the most production in the framework sector, and get the most ports done.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1484	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1487	A case-by-case information that may be useful for the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1494	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1497	With regard to what the Council of State said, I would like to point out that with regard to the allocation of the chapter, there is a proposal, and that proposal will be adopted here today. So it's not just a comment.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1502	The political basis for the central government is very clear, at least at one point. It says: ‘A impaired postal service is not acceptable.’ In the Workers' Party, we no longer feel completely safe at that point either. In isolation, we don't think 10 million. kr in the reduction of the purchase of unprofitable services is some short-term crisis. But we're concerned that this indicates a direction, and we fear for the continuation of this direction. The main reason for this fear is that the Government has chosen the Progress Party as its closest employee and supporter, including in matters of transport. The Progress Party has no postal policy objectives in this country, for they state in their comments that there are now so many ‘beneficial and reasonable alternatives to the postal services’. They recommend that more postal services be taken over by other operators in the market. The Progress Party does not see the need for the state to buy unprofitable services from the Post, and everyone knows where the unprofitable services are: they are in District Norway. Also the Right, which is the second supporter of the Government, has, in its comments, underlined the need to abolish the remaining monopoly of the Post and to offer unprofitable services. This is a political course in postal policy that is contrary to the policy of the Central Party in particular. When this doesn't later go far into the heart roots of the center parties, there's a serious reason to be concerned about the rotation that can happen in the postal policy. The center editor is no longer block independent, but has selected the right side. There is constantly negative focus on the Post. Therefore, it is very nice to note that in several areas it is now going better. There have been problems with queues in the post offices, especially in the cities, and it has been difficult to recruit people for the bidding service. We've recorded that both of these relationships now seem to be in very good shape. In addition, it is very nice to note that despite technological developments, not least in the case of e-mails, we send letters with the mail that never before, and in 1997 625 million letters were sent. In the Workers' Party, we are satisfied that we now agree in principle that full compensation should be granted for diesel charges on regular buses, and that this should also apply to express buses. Many counties have many express buses, which again have many passengers, and the main objective of the Workers' Party with these buses is to bring down passenger car traffic. It also increases safety on Norwegian roads. It is very gratifying that the bulk of the population has now given a clear signal to plan the Eidanger tunnel, not because it is located in Telemark, but because it is a project on a route where it is important to bet on the railway. This is not a local project, but a national project that is very important both for the Vestfold track and for the future to the Sørlandsbanen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1524	Maritime transport has a rich tradition and continues to play a major role in Norway as a coastal state. With the main emphasis of the population and industry located near the coast, maritime transport is very important for the efficiency of the transport network. Maritime transport has a dominant role in international transport and is responsible for approx. 95 pst. the transport operations of imports and exports of goods in the Norwegian territory. In addition to commercial shipping, there is considerable traffic of fishing vessels, particularly in the West and North Norway. Ports are the link between maritime traffic and land traffic. For this reason, it is important for the Christian People's Party to stress that, in the context of the investigation of a comprehensive transport plan, we now want to achieve closer coordination between maritime transport and overland transport. If we're going to get this done, it's essential that the two departments that are represented here today cooperate closely, and also motivate the underlying agencies involved to do the same. It is gratifying to note that the central government is showing willingness to invest in maritime transport and that there is a significant increase in the budget, both for coastal administration and for port development. Despite large and extensive moloreparations due to post-burden damage, three new plants will be launched in 1999: Sirevåg, Geilevika and Søvik. For a northerly landing, it is also a pleasure to record that Ramberg and Steinesjön port facilities in Nordland will be completed during 1999. Both are good and active fishing ports, which are a prerequisite for the value creation of the two small communities. From an environmental point of view, transport by sea has considerable advantages and, in addition, it is very good district policy to organise maritime infrastructure for the coastal population. The Christian People's Party records that both the Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party want changes in the economic structure and organisation of the Coastal Works. The Christian People's Party will remind you that, in the near future, the Committee on the Coastal Works will present its assessments of the organisational issues, and there is consensus among the centre parties that we will not draw any conclusions until we know the recommendations of the Committee on the Coastal Works. The Christian People's Party has noticed that there is a large local involvement for City Ship's Tunnel. It is therefore gratifying that the Ministry of Fisheries is preparing the implementation of the pre-project in cooperation with the counties concerned and that, within its own budget, the Ministry makes available the necessary funds for the first part of the project. Furthermore, it is gratifying that the Government is promoting new quality objectives for fireworks and branding services. This concerns both increased availability of the various installations and not least the objective of avoiding accidents or accidents that can be traced back to failed fire and branding services or inadequate navigational alerts. To achieve this ambitious target, priority must be given to the maintenance and upgrading of fireworks, light bulbs, lanterns and electronic installations. The Christian People's Party therefore accepts that this forced maintenance is initially at the expense of new acquisitions. The Christian People's Party has also noted with concern the large exceedances on the expenditure side of the bulk budget, and awaits the forthcoming discharge and the conclusions of the Coastal Commission. On the basis of this material, a review of the structure and operation of the Coastal Works must be carried out. The Christian People's Party takes note that increased activity and more short-loss have contributed to the operating result deficit of 27.5 million. kr, and accepts the Ministry's proposal for containment. In particular, it is now important to have a continuous assessment of different aspects of the unloading service and follow-up of the cost-income relationship, so that financial management reaches an acceptable level. And then finally I want to take a little walk into Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen's posts earlier today, where he stressed very strongly that the Workers' Party was opposed to strong ties in the road budget. I could almost want to say welcome after, because it is precisely these bonds that make us have such a tight budget as we have today. And I want to remind you that the central government isn't submitting any new tribal road projects just to get rid of some of the bonds. And at the same time, I would just like to comment briefly on Gunn Olsen's concern for the Post by saying that the Workers' Party was involved in launching the process that we are now involved in regarding the postal structure.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1547	At the time of the submission of the State Budget on 5 October, a press release was sent from the Ministry of Transport, where it is stated: ‘The appropriations for the maintenance of the network increase by 22 per cent compared to 1998. This is essential to maintain a satisfactory standard on the network and to improve the regularity and punctuality of train traffic.’ At the same time, I am well aware of the debate we had on this year's budget for transport a year and five days ago. Minister for Transport Dørum used harsh words in that debate, as the Workers' Party proposed greater amounts for tilted train investments. This would include, inter alia: have had a minor impact on the operation and maintenance of the railway budget. The priorities of the Labour Party are in practice ‘a priority from path to path’, said Dørum in the debate last year. In an answer to a reply from me, the council further said: ‘Of course I am aware of the importance of maintenance. It is particularly underlined in the Jagland government's budget proposals, which the Workers' Party in its balancing has taken 35 million. NOK at the maintenance item to move to operating investment. I have not wanted to think as the Labour Party has done in this matter. I wanted to put the maintenance in place." Re-disposal of the Workers' Party to the Railway Budget of 35 Mio. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. Then we've seen what this year's budgetary settlement between the five bourgeois parties has led to for the railway. First, 15 million disappeared. D to operate and maintain a late night hour while the parliamentary leaders were negotiating. So, another 20 million disappeared. kr for operation and maintenance another night, while the five parties in the Committee were negotiating. With regard to the government's original proposal, which was so well mentioned in the press release mentioned earlier, it is now 35 million. kr less for the operation and maintenance of the railway – exactly the same amount as the Minister of Transport, one year ago, in the harsh order, and with arms and legs in motion, took a strong distance from it. In addition, the budget compromise results in a cut in railway investment of 30 million. kr. So we're talking 65 million. kr less for the railway than proposed in the State budget. The Labour Party is taking off the track, said the Minister last year. This year I will say: the centre parties are taking off the track and giving to the Right and the Advance Party. I'm not in doubt which of these two priorities I think makes the most sense. Quite exactly two years ago, the current organisation of the railway, with the NSB BA and the Railway Agency, saw the light of day. The Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the SV constituted the majority who provided for the new organisation. One of the assumptions that was then made was that the two companies should have a common boss and a common board. First of all, the Workers' Party had seen that this organisation had been carried on a little longer, before any organisational changes had been made. However, we note that there is now a majority to make a full organisational distinction between NSB BA and the Railway Agency, and we will subsidiaryly join in. However, it is under the clear premise that the staff of the Railway Agency, which is currently represented in the Board of Directors, will continue to be guaranteed a high degree of participation in its own business in the future. I am very pleased that the committee majority underlines the importance of establishing a new train offer between Oslo and Stockholm. The NSB and the SJ have jointly prepared a report outlining how a tilted train can run economically profitablely on the route. The majority ask the Ministry to make a positive contribution to this. So a few words about the sports of Rome and the Gardermoban. The government has proposed to give the NSB Gardermoban a loan of 550 million. kr for the densification of the Rome sport. This is in addition to the 750 million. kr Storting granted for sealing earlier this year. If the NSB Gardermobane is granted by the Government its application for new concession limits for the two zones where there is still too much leakage in relation to the current concession, probably not all of this amount will be accepted. If, on the other hand, the application is not accepted, then there may be additional amounts for dessert. Finally. One thing we should now agree on: now it's about doing to get the Rome sports into use. For this reason, the majority also intervenes in order to provide the NSB Gardermoban BA with the necessary funds to complete the work started.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1583	The agreement now concluded with the government parties provides light in the tunnel for the areas along our tribal roads where projects are under way but stopped due to a lack of funds and the withdrawal of funds. There is now an opportunity to complete some of these projects that are already under way. The progress party's primary proposal of over SEK 1.3 billion had led to a better infrastructure for the country as a whole, as it would have been much more focused on road development than on rail development. As an east fold, there is no comfort in the way of the road standard through the county. This applies to both E6 and E18. Today’s situation versus Norwegian road and road transport plans for 1998–2007 is that it has not even been possible to comply with it, because sufficient resources are lacking, and political decisions have been taken. The plan includes the completion of E6 as a four-field category A motorway throughout Akershus to the Eastfold border during the summer of 1998. But here too, the completion of planned projects depends on. The plan also states that through Østfold, a two-field category B motorway will be completed during the first six months of 1999. But the projects have stopped. One of the projects is the route Lekevold in Sarpsborg to Åsgård in Råde, where today there is a 50 km speed limit on certain parts of the route, and that is the main road from Norway to the continent we are talking about here. It was only in 2002 that the construction of the Class A quadruple motorway began from Akershus to Østfold border until the exit at Moss City. In addition to this, there will be no expansion of E6 in the ten-year planning period. On the other hand, the Swedes, which do not have the revenues from oil and gas and fish exports that Norway has, are already expanding the route from Uddevalla to the Norwegian border at Svinesund as a quadruple motorway. Here in Norway, the State Road Service will not even be able to regulate routes to four-field motorways. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Norway is also following in this area, despite being one of the richest countries in the world, which more politicians like to claim that we are. It is necessary for the country, for industry and for the road users that the weak link of the route through Eastfold is given a solution consistent with the Nordic plans for the Nordic triangle. The Nordic triangle assumes that the route between Oslo – Stockholm – Copenhagen – Oslo will be extended to the four-field motorway and will be completed at the beginning of the new millennium we are facing. Sweden and Denmark are in progress for the longest time. In Norway, the plans are not even embedded in Norwegian road and road traffic plans, although the route for Eastfold is only 60 km. My claim is that bad cause leads to more accidents, but it does not seem to affect all politicians sufficiently, unfortunately. Too many fatal accidents occur because the road standard is out of place and is out of proportion to the other infrastructure. The fact that we have gradually received cars of good technical standard in Norway has not been taken into account in the development of our tribal roads. Minister of Transport Odd Einar Dørum, who himself is not a great user of a car, has been a trip to Eastfold along with the relatives who have lost their loved ones in fatal accidents at E6 and marked a moment of reflection for the dead. I expect that the marking made an impression on the Minister of Transport. The traffic density through Østfold is so high that a continuation of the two-field motorway is not justified. Twofelt's Class B motorway does not belong in a modern society. It should be noted that a two-field motorway of Standard Class B does not exist in Europe, but at least it exists in the Bahamas. The route from Oslo to Svinesund is the main road to the continent, where the transport of our fishery products passes, and through which most tourists come to visit the country. Of all the goods that go in and out of the country, almost 50 pst. via Svinesund. Only that, without discussion, should lead to a four-field motorway. Unfortunately, this is not the case in the country where drivers are skinned by charges that are believed to be channelled into road development. Finally, I would like to say that the aim of the Progress Party is to channel funds into roads and road safety, so that the infrastructure corresponds to the time we are in.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1609	Transport policy is important for people, and the voters had great hopes of the first budget that a central government would provide. When the Jagland government presented its budget plans just before the 1997 elections, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party added 5,300 million. kr more for road investment in the period 1998-2001 than the Workers' Party considered as realistic. Was it so nice that people had hopes? But what is the draft budget? There is no increase on the way, contrary to a cut of 10 pst. from 1998 to 1999. Even after the agreement with the Right Party and the Advance Party, there is no approach to the promises before the elections. I would like to try to transfer this budget that the civil parties will now adopt to the effect it will have in East Agder. The working party will actually allocate 20 million. kr to the E18 Rannekleiv-Temse, which is economically very profitable. Not only does the bourgeois majority grant less but it also does not give Rannekleiv-Temse priority and gives the ministry the authority to prioritise. This means that local politicians must return to Oslo on beggar's way. It's also dramatic that the bourgeois majority cuts the county road appropriations. For the transport of timber in East Agder, it is such that often one comes from a private road on a county road, then on the highway, and then the permitted axle loads must be linked, otherwise the use of the truck will be linked to the county road network. With regard to the seat charge on air travel, which affects travellers from Kjevik hard and distorts competition, the Workers' Party will impose a passenger fee which compensates for the charges on air travel throughout the country. The fact that the Workers' Party is now pushing for this is good. For East-Agder, it is good that the Workers' Party has a ‘less investment measure’ of 70 million. kr. This could have given 4-5 million. For racial protection in Valle, but also here it is no from the bourgeois. It is also important in a state such as East-Agder that the express routes to ATS and Seatsdal Bilruter are offered the possibility of a fee compensation for a diesel charge, otherwise a reduced offer would be applicable. But it was in the attitude of the Committee on Transport, which, however, caused me to be surprised, that the Central Party had been involved in cutting 10 million. kr for the purchase of postal services. So this system is going to secure post office in Utkant-Norway. This must be a nice Christmas greeting to Utrand-Agder. Yes, what say center party people in Setesdal who have fought against the closure of post offices, what does everyone say about a closed-end post office in Agder? I think they're saying, "We're disappointed in the Center Party." From 1 October 1997 to 9 December 1998, 284 post offices are closed and the policy of the Central Party is likely to increase. The railway may become important for East Agder. The journey time from Arendal to Oslo has been 30 minutes longer by plane because of the new airport at Gardermoen. Car on the 25-mile stretch along the E18 now takes approx. 3.5 hours, same time as with planes. It is against this background that the NSB has great opportunities: several departures from Sørlanden, new winding trains, the Eidanger tunnel, connection Sørlandsbanen/Vestfoldbanen. The transport of the future for the South is a train.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1630	The districts are well served by the central government's proposal to defeat the transport budget. Thanks to the steadfastness of the Right, people and businesses in the districts can see the future a little brighter, because we partly got through our district policy heartache, namely better roads and ports in the districts. Transport policy plays a very important, perhaps the most important, role in industrial development and housing. Without satisfactory transport and communication opportunities, it will not be possible to maintain business and housing that are in line with overall objectives of rural policy and fair distribution. Right-hand knows, and the businesses and people in the districts know, that transportation, transport, and communications are the main bloodstreams in the value-creating district of Norway. It is just so sad that not everyone realizes it and follows up on the moral responsibility and the promises made by the majority of the population in Norwegian road and road traffic plans 1998-2007. In Trom's state, for example, delayed from the current road planning period of 450 million. kr. Moreover, when the majority of population does not follow up their own decisions on the framework for the next planning period, there is a threat to the pattern of housing, and this weakens the competitiveness of industry. This is the case in most of the counties, and in the autumn several highways became, for example: the main entry point to Tromsø, stopped due to lack of money. The government itself informs us that 800 million are needed. 1998 for the rational use of road projects. While I'm in my home town of Tromsø, we have two sections within the city's borders that need racial protection, namely the Sørskaret and Isbergan. That's the way it is in many places in Norway. Therefore, the Right also proposes to increase the grant for racial protection by 46.6 million. kr. We who live in the districts know that gravel roads and low axle loads are a threat to value creation in the districts, and the Right therefore proposes increased appropriations for the road sector. Only the right has kept the promises made to the districts in respect of the road appropriations. It should be a heavy one for the government parties to carry, and I hope District Norway remembers that only the Right is to trust in the allocations to the national and county roads, for racial protection and traffic protection, as the majority of people promised two years ago. We view good communications as the main means of strengthening value creation and thus maintaining the settlement throughout the country. There is a clear link between good communication and the ability to create material well-being. Large distances, scattered settlements and a very open economy and goods export make Norway particularly dependent on good transport solutions. Different forms of self-financing for specific transport projects should be considered in order to achieve faster implementation. We should test out untraditional financing solutions for faster road or tunnel development to replace ferries by, for example, the State. authorises the tolling company to receive the ferry subsidies over 15-20 years. Similarly, any investment for new ferries and ferries must be eligible for a toll company. In Troms, for example. contribute to the Rya connection, which is also mentioned in Norwegian Road and Road Transport Plan. In order to strengthen business and rural settlements, road transport charges need to be reduced and harmonised with the EU level. The right is satisfied that we got to the full – and I fully underline – compensation for the diesel charge for regular buses regardless of the route path or not. The government's original proposal was an estimate of public transport, because without compensation, public transport would lose competitiveness. In the last few years, the right has been the driver of increased investment in the port sector. This year, too, we are proposing increased appropriations for fishing ports and fairways, and we are well pleased that the state budget has a higher level. There's once again a statement that we in Right want to bet on the coast and the fishing industry in the value-creating district of Norway. The development of ports must take place in close cooperation between State and local/regional authorities and users. But then the state must not fail, as we have seen in too many conditions, where the Port Service leaves the ports until they are finished. The state port services are being criticized for not keeping continuous expansion going, and the Council of State itself was in on it today. The councils and signatories had a dispute going on last spring on the ports of Sommarøy. Too many installations are half-completed because the Port Service chooses to launch new projects instead of closing them on-going. Not later than the summer, the Coastal Director confirmed that, in the case of the 5th district fishing port development, the Port Authority is unable to follow up its projects and implement them at a sufficient pace due to a lack of capacity and competence in the 5th district office of Honningsvåg. It cannot be good district policy to make the location of offices a more important issue than building ports. However, for the right, this is another argument that more port expansion has to be offered, and we are therefore proposing additional funds for port expansion to be implemented in response to tenders. I ask the Council of State to spend time and effort on this department to make it more effective, while at the same time putting the department out of competition.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1660	The Labour Party has a clear profile of transport investments: they must be turned from road to rail, port and collective action. This profile is good for key strokes, where traffic remains a major environmental problem. The Committee majority also has good and forward-looking comments for the Bjørvika area. The E18 impact assessment between the Fortress Tunnel and the Ekeberg Tunnel is now complete. It is an intriguing investigation, which provides an excellent basis for large-scale urban development by establishing a good transport system in the area. The project facilitates the re-establishment of contact between the city and the fjord and the connection between the Old Oslo and the rest of the city. The main road system is becoming more efficient. The reconstruction opens up 8 000 jobs, 1500 residents and areas for culture and new opera house at Oslo's most central collective hub. The bet in Bjørvika is an important matter not just for Oslo. It is an important matter for the entire eastern region and for everyone who is in the future travelling to the country's capital – by plane, boat or railway. Many creative forces have been involved in different development plans for Old Oslo. The size has gone into the construction of a tunnel through the Old Town, and this is now determined. The old town settlement has given its hearing opinion. Some of the objections are that the price estimate of DKK 4-6 billion is highly misleading, that the Old Town project has developed a benchmark that makes the tunnel options appear to be extremely costly and that environmental and health impacts, land values and urban development potential have not been adequately assessed. It is also established that some of the options are contrary to the Storting decision. Others have proposed that the railway be placed in a deep tunnel throughout the Oslo centre. This idea has also been evaluated consistently, and then put in a drawer. It's strangely quiet about the Old Town Tunnel now. I wonder where they are all those who participated in the street race in Old Oslo a few years ago with great and precious promises. There are also not many who raise critical questions in the investigation of the Old Town project. It is not least the Council of State's responsibility to do so. And I want to ask some questions to the State Council Dørum: Is it impossible to find simpler and cheaper solutions than what is foreseen in the investigation into the Old Town Tunnel? Will the Council of State uncritically accept the assumptions made and will the Council of State be critical of the figures with which the investigation concludes? Will the Council of State arrange for a new investigation to be launched in line with the objections raised by the Old Town Association? Finally, I would like to mention the offer – or lack of such – on a particular route. It surprised me that committee leader Nilsen chatted with Raumabanen in his main post today. The committee leader should be up-to-date in view of the fact that both freight and passenger traffic have increased sharply. A few years ago, the proposal to shut down the night train at Raumabanen was put aside pending the completion of the Gardermobanen and the use of tilting trains. That's wise. The followers hope that this will prevent closure, but fear that one will face a hidden guided winding-up. The offer is getting worse and worse. Among other things, the material used is miserable. And the offer becomes less and less known to customers. In fact, the sales offices believe that the distance has already been closed. In spite of this, we see, as I said, an increase in traffic. Freight traffic is also very important for the Raumaban, and I have to say that it is very strange that you put in such light locomotives that they spin up the Rome valley, if they are able to get there at all. This does not exactly promote the competitiveness of the Raumaban. I would like to ask the Council of State to take a closer look at this matter and to arrange for the night train on Raumaban to take out the potential, both on the person and on the freight side, and for a serious and realistic assessment basis in the next round. I have to repeat that it surprises me that the committee leader gives misleading information about the Raumaban, and I show, among other things. to letters received by the Rauma Food Council.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1690	There's one picture that forever, I think, is attached to my Internet, and it's a TV broadcast in the spring of 1997 when the transport plan was handled here in the house. Magnus Stangeland of the Senterpartiet led the Christian People's Party over the street and said that road investment would increase by 5 billion kroner in addition to the Labour Party's proposal in the period 1998-2001. For this TV picture, it should be tone. I'm not going to sing, but I'm going to hear it right out like that – "We're so excited when we go out and rob," because one felt like it was on a robbery they were. The election campaign about the cottage we think well. The work party was petty, thought not of jobs, and was insensitive to the districts. From the Labour Party's side, we said, well, this is a plan, and then we'll see when the budget comes, if there's going to be a follow-up with money. The budget came last fall – then it was only the first year of a four-year period – but without any additions. So we got the budget now in the fall, which is the second one in the four-year period, and for next year there's a cut in highway investment of 10 pst. from 1998 to 1999. Lifting policy is dead in one year, and it is good that realism now also has to come to recognition in the centre party. Then there are some who say that the Labour Party doesn't have much more resources for national road investment either. That's true, but we didn't promise anything, and that's the big difference. It is important, if you are to have confidence in politics, to ensure that what is a law is followed up with money. That's what's the big difference between the center and the working party in that context. Transport engages in all parts of the country and in all the environment. It's no wonder when we see what it has to say, both for districts and businesses, to have a good road standard. That's the way it is in my state. In Hordaland, we have a lot of big projects going on, and of course many different projects that haven't started. Of course, when the central government presented its budget in the fall, there was a great deal of tension both in the framework and in the individual project. The Committee on Transport's leader from the Right made it louder that there were too small sums on the frames, and for Hordaland there would be at least more money. I can only note that after the conciliation was a reality, where the intermediate and the Progress Party and the Right were merged, transport was reduced by 257 million. kr. That doesn't help much if the Progress Party and the Right say they're very disappointed. In fact, these two parties are currently supporting the attached frame. For many of us, it was a waste of time that the Stortinge decided not to build Hardangerbrua. But who does not think of everything that was promised, both racial protection and better road and ferry links? I understand that people in Hardanger now feel cheated. Governments have been visiting, the leader of the Finance Committee and other transport politicians. I'm glad that the Workers' Party in its proposal had earmarked 15 million. kr for racial protection in Hardanger in addition to the entry for racial protection. I had probably expected that the representative Oddvard Nilsen had done his job to get this budget line signed after everything he said and promised earlier this year. I would also like to remind the representative of the Left, if it is possible to do so, of all that has been said in this context of racial protection in Hardanger, as well as that of course one has promised racial protection in different parts of the country otherwise. The working party would also participate and secure further progress in the large Hordaland plant by allowing 20 million. NOK to the Triangle Connection and SEK 10 million. kr to the Folgefonn tunnel. With these permissions, you could add up to rational operation of already started projects. So finally, there's a lot of weird stuff in this budget. One of them is these wretched post offices that are now going to have a reduction of 10 million. kr. We who have followed in the debate for a few years here in Stortinget, and listened to how terrible it was for the districts if the post office was laid down, now sees, when the Central Party itself is coming into government, what they actually propose. Well, it may be that it works well even if post office is laid down. It's just to be happy that more people come to that recognition.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1711	The president thinks it's more than the Frøiland representative who thought it might be okay with a little tone to the song, but maybe another time. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1716	Among the many rapporteurs of the government parties in Oppland was the announcement that the Leirin air route should be phased out, as lightning from the clear sky. Not in their most pessimistic fantasies had they thought that a government was based on, among other things. The centre party should be involved in such a proposal. Today, I want to remind the politicians from the budget-mates that when Ferne's airport, Leirin, opened ten years ago, this was the result of long-term work. The aim was to improve the accessibility of the internal east. A scheduled flight on Leirin would also make it much easier to get to the West and the Trondelag. Today it turns out that 70-80 pst. by the passengers on the Leirin route come with aeroplanes from anywhere in Norway other than Oslo and Bergen. The state aid granted to the air route is 8 million. kr annually. In relation to the significance of the aerodrome, this is a small amount. The Workers’ Party’s fraction in the Committee on Transport believes that Ferne’s airport must be seen in a regional context and that it must be wrong to reduce the subsidy for the purchase of air route services now. Furthermore, the Workers' Party requests that the Fereners-Oslo/Bergen routes be continued after 1 January 2000 so that these flights can also be adapted to the rest of the route system. Parties with regional policy as their main area and claiming to have been birth helpers for the aerodrome in their time should be ashamed of themselves. It won't be easy to talk about trust after this. The fact that the same politicians do not see Leirin’s potential is directly discouraging. The tourism industry in this region has invested between 500 million in the last years in the previous decision of Stortinget on the E16 Oslo – Bergen tribal road and the takeover of Fenerne airport, Leirin on 1 January 1998. NOK 700 million and SEK 700 million. kr. Finally, when it is first claimed from the Government and later from the budget-mates that the cancellation of grants for route operations at Leirin will not affect the further operation of the aerodrome, this is a very surprising conclusion. With regard to the significance of the route for the operation of Ferne airport, the route offer, despite its quality, has made the aerodrome live throughout the year. In the years 1991 to 1998, the airport of Ferne was also the largest on incoming charter to Norway with Gardermoen, and in two of these years the airport of Ferne was larger than Gardermoen. In these years, the social impact of charter traffic has had an estimated economical gain of about 10 %. One hundred million. kr and an employment effect of 120 – 140 years. I am afraid that the cancellation of the flight fee will also damage the charter traffic in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1735	This morning I got on the table my impact assessment from the State Road Service in Oslo on the E18 between the Fortress Tunnel and the Ekeberg Tunnel, which it is called, i.e. proposals on how to remove and place traffic in Bjørvika in tunnels. The impact assessment is based on the following main principle: E18 is built in a new line between the Ekeberg Tunnel and the Fortress Tunnel, and a new Uusimaa is being built between the Prince's Gate and the Bispegata. The proposals contained in the impact study mean that the district of Bjørvika can be freed from urban development. I am very pleased that the number of committees in the vote remains at the heart of the Committee's consideration of Norwegian road and road transport plans, that the Bjørvika project will be launched in the period 1998-2001 with completion in the period 2002-2007. In the meantime, the municipality of Oslo has also granted 150 million. kr as part of the municipality’s contribution. So it's urgent to continue to work to open Oslo east to the sea in the village of Oslo. This is also an important continuation of the metropolitan message, with increased emphasis on the eastern parts of Oslo. The well-being of the metropolitan area also includes the production of a high-quality external urban environment. Bjørvika has literally become Norway's face outside. It is a joint responsibility of the state and municipality to make Bjørvika Oslo Pearl No. 1st@item: inlistbox This is also how we make the historic roots of the capital and Norway visible – here lies the largest collection of medieval ruins in the Nordic region. May I also remind you in this brief article of the major challenges facing Groruddalen in solving fundamental environmental and transport problems. Keywords here are Oslopakk 2, Alna Umweltpark and road improvements. It is about the quality of life of the densely populated valley in Norway, about traffic protection, about increased accessibility across the valley and about continuous green lungs in areas currently dominated by state-owned traffic sites. Now, the programme committee in Oslo Workers' Party is proposing to set up a planning office for the Groruddalen in accordance with the pattern of the Environment City of Old Oslo, which was also a joint state-owned municipal project. Finally, in this debate, I should also like to mention the problems that the inhabitants of Hellerud are facing as a result of the leaks in connection with the sport of Rome. Although we all feel it is important to open it, I would nevertheless ask the Council of State, as Oslo representative, to take into account the uncertainty and danger that the inhabitants feel. I mention this, also because the NVE's concession requirements are well presented in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1750	The government, in its budget proposal, states that it attaches great importance in its policy to limiting the disadvantages that transport causes to society in terms of pollution and noise, as well as interference in natural and cultural environments. Furthermore, the Government shows that increased investment in collective transport is one of several means of reducing transport-related environmental problems in major cities. Therefore, in addition to the railway operation, priority is given to investing in urban, collective and roadside measures in the 1999 budget. In the Norwegian Road and Road Road Transport Plan 1998-2007, the State Road Service is entrusted with a greater responsibility for public transport. A public transport action plan will be drawn up during 1998, thus making public transport more an integral part of the activities of the State Road Administration. In 1999, the development of cost-benefit methodology for public transport will be central. This work is carried out in close cooperation with the counties. It would not be unnatural for one to look at the urban alternative in Norway's second largest city, Bergen, in connection with such a plan. Urban development is a major instrument in the revitalisation of cities around the world. The advantages of the city track are many. It is electrical and does not emit any kind of exhaust gases. Today's technology has reduced noise to a minimum. This allows the path to be traversed through streets and urban areas without any special environmental handicaps. The city track runs on its own cross-country trajectories with right of way and narrow streets. In this way, the urban track achieves high speed in the outer urban zones and sufficient accessibility through the central urban areas. The urban railway in Bergen can hardly be realized without state resources. I believe that the Ministry of Transport should instruct the Directorate of Road in cooperation with the Railway Agency to draw up a basis for the urban railway in an action plan, and then I refer to the increased commitment to public transport in the big cities as this Government says it wants. If the Government is to follow this up, more must be allocated to public transport, not as now, less.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1762	In its reply to the Council of State, the representative Røtweg was concerned that if a private financing was used for the construction and operation of road projects, there was a demand for return on capital. What the representative completely overlooks is that this way of building a road can be a more efficient way of building. At least the road will be built continuously and will not depend on the goodwill of the Storting to complete the projects efficiently and rationally. I can use an example, and unfortunately there are many such examples around Norway. Since the fall of 1993, E6 in Østfold has built a two-field highway with pass-by fields, i.e. three-field road with two-plane crossings, 11 km in length. Only a few kilometers of this road was opened in the autumn of 1996, the rest will be finished in the year 2000. 11 km in seven years! Such expansion is a shame. And what is the return on capital that we're talking about here? In addition, we are talking about one of the main roads out of Norway. As I said, there is dead capital for multiple millions. Other countries have tried such a development successfully. And why not a trial project also in Norway? The inefficient way in which road construction is taking place today cannot continue. The development of E6 and E18 is appropriate for such test projects. It is now active in Eastfold to provide the so-called Eastfold package, which extends the E6 to the four-field motorway and the E18. The Commission will examine this matter early in February 1999. Toll companies are being established in these days. I would like to ask the Council of State if it is possible to deal with this matter as soon as possible, so that the Storting can take a stand for this before the Storting goes apart in the summer of 1999. It will be of undeniable importance, especially for the E6 that goes through the whole state, and that, as I said, is the main road out of the country. Finally, I would like to comment on what the Stortinget decided in spring in connection with green taxes, and against the government's will, namely that the express buses should also be compensated for the loss of the tax exemption on diesel. On request, the Financial Committee was informed in a letter from the Minister of Finance that this compensation would amount to 20 million. kr. The reluctance to introduce the scheme was present by using the argument that this would be so difficult to administer and that the whole scheme would be suspended. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State: how has the Council of State intended that the guidelines for this compensation scheme be drawn up, and will full compensation be granted with this amount?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1776	I just want to draw up a single project at the end of this debate, and I do not actually do that primarily to send a Christmas greeting home. I'm doing it because it's a project that can end up as a scandal of dimensions, unless the Council of State puts more goodwill and pervasiveness into the work than he's done so far. I'm talking about Sundøybrua in Northern Ireland, which Stortinget has said several times to be built, and the parties that are now forming the government have been involved. The size has also stated how the cost sharing between the county and the state should be. This is about a large county road system. Unfortunately, since the government change, we have seen that the project has been trained by the Ministry. I can't see it any other way. With the power of action we're used to from former political leadership in this department, the bride would have been finished by now. Despite clear signals from Stortinget, the department is now running an untimely pressure against the county council for a different cost sharing than foreseen. There was no such reverse operation of the voters on, among other things. Sund Island had hopes for after the election campaign in 1997. Based on the billions of promises, it's directly alarming, yes absolutely incredible, that the government is unable to complete this project to a few tens of millions. I say deliberately finished, because the road drive to the bust is finished, partly financed by the municipality in confidence that the central authorities would stand by their promises. Today, however, this matter is about something more than a bridge to a small community. It's about the credibility of the entire political environment, and it's about preventing the political disdain from increasing by us directly doing business with people. Unfortunately, the government parties continue their indiscriminateness and add to a continuing desert migration that can end in a black-and-white game, with the people of Sund Island as the biggest losers. Fortunately, the Labour Party and the Right continued to ensure that the promises and expectations are met. I sincerely hope that this time the Council of State will follow up on what the majority of people have said. Otherwise, this case could end up as a compliment to all of us. Now, the bureaucracy – maybe hopefully not the Council of State – will argue that the bridge is not funded. But it just becomes an excuse – and a bad one. The county municipality is still willing to enter into a gunnery agreement, as the Stortinget has provided for. Full funding can then take place in the year 2000. I say freely after happy Ibsen: that is the will that is at stake, the will to free or trap. It is up to today's Minister of Transport to prevent the routes of entry into this bridge from standing as monuments of the betrayal of a community that believed in us.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1787	We are in a time of long traditions. For some religious and for humanists, this is a waiting time – someone is waiting for Christmas, someone waiting for the celebration of Jesus' birth, others for the sun to turn around and for us to go brighter in meetings, and others are waiting for the Government to implement its election promises and the government statement to say. I also sent a greeting last year, and there will be a tradition if not the Government now follows its own policy in the field of transport. I would like to remind the central government of election promises and government statements when we are discussing the Post, the Road and the Railway today. There's a couple of important things I'm thinking in particular. On the North Jären, on the Jærbanen, we were to get two tracks, and the city track was to be given priority by the Left, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. We are some of them in environmental policy, they said. It cannot continue as it is now with the Labour Party, when they cooperate with the Right Party and the Progress Party. There won't be much environmental policy, they said to me. Great, I thought and SV, then there will be investment in environmentally friendly transport when we get a new government. But where did that bet go? And when it comes to the Post: Magnhild Melting Company Kleppa and I were quite a few of them saying that we had to stop the Workers' Party's fury from posting. But what happens? Post office disappeared and was reduced at a higher rate than the Workers' Party was able to. And the mail services in the districts are getting worse or disappearing altogether. It was the opposite of what the Center Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party said in the election campaign. The election promises I heard from Gunnar Kvassheim, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and Einar Steensnæs on railway and urban development, on racial protection and at Posten, are forgotten today. So this year, too, I have to say to the rogalendians who believed in the election promises that even this year, they have to use Christmas to tell the centermates about what's in their own programs. They simply don't think that as far as I can see. Juletida we're in, like I said, a waiting time. But with this government, it can work like it's Christmas time all year, maybe for four years. The question is, When will we see something concrete about the gospel in the Government’s statement? It wasn't last year, it wasn't this year either. Will it ever be?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1808	We have a case for processing today that concerns exceedances in the unloading service. In particular, the representative Steinar Bastisen took up a specific example of a vessel that was based on the Norwegian coast and had not been released. The pilotage service is a state service institution, it can be said, which works in a market where shipping requires unloading services. This market may, of course, vary in relation to the overall volume of maritime traffic over the year. Demand varies from day to day, and also varies from region to region. Of course, it is not simply for the Los Service to have a capacity that is adapted to the daily demand for unloading, but the main objective of the unloading service is that they should be able to offer unloading when it is requested from the ship 24 hours before the unloading is due to be carried on board. A greater preparedness than that will, of course, involve a higher cost, and thus a higher cost for shipping through the fees. The vessel that Steinar Bastisen picked up was M/S «Rafnes», if no misunderstanding has occurred, which went from the clay pool in Tana loaded with slate. The ship had unloaded to Honningsvåg, where it went out of the detached area. It then came in at Fuglöya in Troms, and asked for – and got – loose to Lødningen, where it would go into the waters where it is not compulsory to leave. So the captain changed his mind and asked for a release from the Løding too. The unloading service was not available, so the ship was asked to wait. The captain didn't have time for that, so he chose to move on without losing. The precondition was that the ship would then sail outside the Norwegian unincorporated area, but it still chose to enter the coast. The captain had not asked for an exemption from the obligation to leave the place of work, and thus violated the law we have in respect of the obligation to provide services. I must therefore state that Steinar Bastisen's presentation of the incident is not entirely in accordance with the statement I have received on the matter. It is always true that the unloading service must assess from the budgets it has to deal with, the amount of overtime that can be used. And in this particular case, I do not think the unloading service has been unacceptable. It was fully possible for this ship to leave the unincorporated area, so it is the ship that has made a mistake in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1819	I will comment on some of the widely circulated issues from the debate: When it comes to questions raised by the representative Nilsen, about heel trains, I see that a sentence in response No. 6 in connection with St. Prp. No 27 might be misunderstood, but by his question and my answer I consider the matter to be settled. Then there is a question about the Post. The 10 million. kr which has been cut in the final phase, gives no direction, no more than that last year the Workers' Party was unable to participate in the government's 30 million increase. kr. Then the proposal was 550 million. NOK 580 million. kr, so it gives no direction. It only gives us the direction that, together, we who stand together on the government's policy, will ensure the services and postal services imposed on society throughout the country. I've been asked a few questions about the Old Town. The consultation deadline has expired, and the hearing opinions come in, and I want to keep myself informed about them and do my part to ensure that the work is done, quality assurance, so that the Storting gets the facts that are needed. When it comes to the case of Bjørvika, it is absolutely right that a very good work is being done. One of the most exciting things is what is now happening between the state and the municipality of Oslo as the landowners in order to obtain values in this area, given that they are lifting in flocks. There is an indication of an amount up to DKK 1 billion by being able to exploit the plots in a coordinated planning and overall context. It is promising that this can happen, and I understand that the representative Nybakk and others are concerned about this issue. Several have also been involved in public transport. In the case of, inter alia: The Groruddalen, which has been a theme here and is one of Norway's most traffic-laden valleys, I am willing to cooperate with the Municipality of Oslo to find out about the untraditional splitter arrangements on bus routes across the valley to relieve the violent traffic pressure they have. And after the budgetary procedure today, I feel that there is an opportunity to conduct such a dialogue. The representative Nakkim asked questions about the express bus routes and compensation for them. It has been mentioned earlier in the debate, and I find nothing more to add about it. As far as Eastfold is concerned, there has never been any cooperation on an Eastfold package at the Ministry of Transport. There we stand up and have throughout the last year had a dialogue that we keep close and strong. It should only be lacking when people are constructive and try to find solutions! So finally, about Sund Island: I can understand the heartache, but there are many projects that have got in the way between different eras in road policy. What's my dilemma after today is that it's set at 15 million. kr, but no full funding. But in the light of any reaction from the county and the rest of the committee's comments, I will work to see what solution we can find.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1838	: A little about the Post and the concerns about it. The post is struggling with the service, and people are struggling with the Post. Still, we have a staff flight from the department, and the signals that we are again borrowing the funds for the conversion of 200 million. Dr are bad signals in a pressured human resources policy. The post office as an important piece in the local environment is gone, and the mention as the world's best postal service is history. The post has been subject to severe restructuring, and it is wrong for the Government to claim that the service has been maintained. People around the whole country experience the daily results of Posten’s efficiency processes, not least with regard to the driving that has been for people to move the mailboxes to the assembly stand, which people have to buy themselves – cost what it costs. We know that in the years 1995-97 two thirds of the country's post offices were laid down, but unfortunately it did not stop there. In Northern postal districts, they have been notified of an increase in efficiency corresponding to 53 fewer jobs in the sales and distribution network in 1999. Of course, this means a further deterioration of the service. Several offices can be closed here, offices closed on Saturdays, mail not distributed on Saturdays, opening hours reduced, etc. This is the result of an efficiency requirement of 10 p.p., which will apply to the whole country. The government has asked for an overall assessment of the Post Norway BA. It could mean that while the grass grows, the cow dies. I think that will also happen when it comes to the service offices. If you want to do this with a service office, the time is short. Soon, the postal network will have such large cracks that the Post Office is out of date in cooperation with other public agencies. All of this is a crushing defeat for District Norway, because then the other public offices will disappear from the districts as well. We who are here are owners, and we are the ones who can do something about the Post's belongings throughout the country. But with the Right and Advance Party in the main seat, the Post will go against a confusion. Soon the Post can be converted into AS, and differentiated postage becomes a reality. This must be something to think about for the Center Party, especially in Northernland. They went out there and said they would open the post offices again only they got power. And for the entire government it will also have to be a district policy defeat.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1856	: In parts of Akershus and Hedmark, there is – and has been for a long time – a large consensus on the need to develop one of the country’s tribal routes, Rv 2 between E6 and the Swedish border. In his criticism of local labour party politicians, Høre's local representatives have called for progress in the matter. It is therefore very surprising and disappointing that even the Right Members of the Committee on Transport could not participate in what the Labour Party says about providing sufficient planning means to continue the planning of Rv 2 in Nes, South Odal and Kongsvinger, in line with the construction of Norwegian road and road traffic plans. That parties that have always been skeptical, or even opposed to road development, do not participate in this, is no surprise. But as I said, that the party that has called for initiative and progress from other parties, local representatives and central representatives, is not there, is surprising. It's already been noticed locally. It does not keep big words in the election campaign and swollen reading articles and lookups in the local style. There is also a need for political will here in this Chamber to implement the projects that a seafarer is important to realise.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1863	To the last post I know that there will be an answer from the right later. Let me first express my joy at what the Council of State said in connection with the inversion case. It was important for me to clarify what was in this case, and if it is the way it is presented, I have no comments on it. What is related to the transfers from 1997 to 1998 is in the Control and Constitutional Committee, so that it receives its treatment there. Inge Myrvoll was inside me in a reply, and I did not really get to answer him. It went on the distribution in terms of the flight price. The right has a bigger work going on in terms of district policy, and I can promise Inge Myrvoll that we will look at the impact of the funds that have been deployed. It may well be that when we come back to this at a later stage and distribute this with the purchase of services and look at the distribution costs, we might agree with Inge Myrvoll on some of the things he was in. Inger Lise Husøy was inside and kicked a little away from me because I had quoted wrong. I didn't. If the representative, Husøy, looks after and hears what I said, she will see that I can accept it. It's actually a direct quote from a letter from the department. Now maybe the discussion of percentages of space orbital night and a little bit wasted, because the truth is that 10 pst. possibly only a handful of passengers. In that way, I agree that there might be a bit of abuse of percentages like that. Ranveig Frøiland was also in and kicked in because I didn't vote for a lot of money, at least 55 million. kr, to Hordaland. No, I chose, and I said that in my main post, another angle to it. I actually don't know what these 15 million. kr for race protection in Hardanger should go to once, because I think the project costs approx. Forty million. kr. I'm not sure about it, and I actually meant and still think it was more right to do what we did in the committee, take the sum of 150 million. kr, put it on the Council table and say: Use this money as rationally as you can. And I am convinced that will be done too. I therefore expect that you will make a full assessment and find out how you can use the money in the best possible way. I know that this did not send any Christmas greetings to Hordaland, but it should be. As I said in my main post, maybe Transportation-Norway has got a bigger Christmas premiere on it. It is largely my summary related to what has been said. There has been a fairly good debate. One point that the Labour Party has tried to sell is that they have strengthened the transport sector related to the road sector by 260 million. kr. I point out that they have not. They've just re-prioritized money within the same sector, and there's no strengthening of it. The only ones who have strengthened the road sector in this matter are actually the cooperating parties – the centre parties together with the Right and the Advance Party. That's the result of it all. There has been a strengthening of investment in the road sector. I'm glad, and that's what I like to collect – even if the sum was small.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1878	The representative of Nilsen was in the middle of a point in his conclusion: the Labour Party has only redispatched on the road sector. That's why I can substantially support their proposals, because the centre, along with the right side, has weakened the railway sector and the big urbanisation, which for me is very important. But I am not quite satisfied with the response of the representative Nilsen to me, because he said he would come back to this after evaluating how the air services in the districts work. The point is that when tenders go beyond the new year, they are presented for years to come. If we don't put a premise on reduced prices in that call, we won't get it. Therefore it is important now to give the Government a signal that it is wanted as a premiss. I would be willing to discuss whether it would have been 30 pst, which is our proposal, or another rate. The point is to get a direction that's right. I have also received no answer as to why Right, who was with us to fight for the capacity expansion that is now coming in Sogn and Fjordane and in Helgeland, accepts double price increase for increased capacity – that the State will not take that bill. I'm very dissatisfied with that. I also have a question for the Right – this is going to be the pure question right now, just that I am asking representatives of bigots and not state councils – because it is a little unclear what the Right means by full compensation. Can the Right imagine coming back to this case if it turns out that what is now in the appropriations is not full compensation in the case of car diesel for cars? I would like an answer to that question. Then I'm going to move on to the Left-Representative, who was involved in this with racial protection and the increase there. We know that in the case of Hardanger, as I think is very special, and where the promises have been strong, you've only made 20-25 pst. of the promised funds in the middle of the period. Is the representative of the Left satisfied with that? Then to the representative Sahl, if he's in the room. No, he's not. Then I'll move on. A question to the centre: North Norway has never received so little of the remedies, I believe after the war, as they get this year and next year. Is this district policy? Are you satisfied with that profile, or is this going to turn? There we have nothing but roads, and it has gone straight down. The working party started that process, but you still have it. So to the Workers' Party and the Center Party, why aren't you involved in looking at the price mechanisms on the Short Path Network? There is no doubt that those who have the largest transport costs in the country are those who have to combine the two networks. This entails enormous costs for business, public and private alike. But you won't look at it at all.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1897	The President would like to point out that the representative Myrvoll should be so experienced in Stortinget that he knew that all speech should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1901	Yes, the representative Myrvoll is a little sloppy from time to time. I'm sorry, President.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1906	The representative Sverre Myrli is equipped with an adventurous freedom. Riksvej 2 is a tribal route and one of the country's most important intermediate routes. It has a standard that is uniquely bad, regardless of scale. The road is so poor that it is undoubtedly the most important single factor in preventing growth and development in a business-poor district. This is widely recognised in Stortinget, and the Norwegian Road and Road Road Road Plan 1998-2007 has therefore provided a satisfactory framework. However, the size said in the recommendation that the road should be a cooperation project between the state and the users, and prescribed a cost distribution of 50 pst. on the state and 50 pst. on the users. The message reads: ‘The Ministry will come back with toll proposals if necessary local policy decisions are taken.’ The problem is that the necessary local policy decisions are not taken. The entire project is trained in chat, investigations and inactivity. I am aware that the Stortinget requires local decisions, but what does the Council of State do when the workers' party communities in the region are paralyzed by action in relation to anything other than talking? I hope the Council of State will make it clear that he cannot sit and look at a region that is applying to the state for the status of conversion, and with municipalities, the workers' party managed everyone as one for decades after decades, but with a weak ability to stand on their own. Conferences today's black paint of the local economy in the region. Will the Council of State consider the overarching of a region which does not meet the requirement of local decisions foreseen by the Roadmap and which therefore does not realise a completely necessary path and therefore slows down the development of society and on that basis calls for funds to be provided by the State? After all, it would be completely pointless to grant more planning funds for what is planned in 10 – with a little goodwill of 15 years – and which call for only one thing, namely that the municipalities in the region define: Where is the road to go? Where will the toll station be? How much is it going to cost users? These decisions must be taken and sent to the Stortinget. So it says in the Storting's own documents that then there will be a toll proposition, and then we can start building. There is nothing else we need in this matter but a decision, primarily in the municipality of South Odal and in the municipality of Nes. One of those municipalities has not even started the necessary local planning work. And in Sverre Myrli's own municipality, they have promised that the planning work will be completed in a year or two – and then there will probably be three.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1920	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 - 4. [[Fotation, see page 983]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1935	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there will be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1942	I can enjoy the President and the other members of the Stortinget that it will go relatively quickly, for now I have the pleasure to speak especially on behalf of the Center Party, but also on behalf of the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Workers' Party. A document has been submitted. Eight proposals from Christopher Stensaker, Thore Aksel Nistad and Dag Danielsen to use Fornebu as a small airport, General Aviation traffic, as it is called. The proposal is almost identical to a previous proposal, Document No. 8:21 for 1996-97, which was also rejected. I have the understanding of the commitment, but will show that during the debate on the new major airport at Gardermoen, it was underlined by the majority that it was not desirable to share a solution between Fornebu and Gardermoen on the basis of the environmental aspect – noise and pollution. Secondly, it was pointed out that if there were still airports at Fornebu after the Gardermoen was put into service, it would mean a socio-economic loss by the fact that parts of the area could not be used for other and more societal purposes. A small aerodrome at Fornebu will continue to have significant consequences in relation to post-use and will result in significant changes both in overall plans and in detailed plans. Of course, it can be criticised that the offer for GA traffic and small flyers has taken a long time, but today most of the small flyers have received an offer. The Committee has received a letter from the Ministry of Transport confirming that the Swedish Aviation Administration has informed that the Authority is engaged in ongoing dialogue with the Norwegian Aero Club and Norwegian General Aviation Association of small aircraft stakeholders and that the current new measures at individual aerodromes will be further assessed in consultation with them. I trust that this will work out gradually, and it also has the other parties that I'm talking about on behalf of. That is why I would recommend Stortinget to reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1959	Until now, the need for general aviation aerodromes in the Oslo area has been largely covered by the use of Fornebu, Gardermoen and Kjeller. As the plans for the new main aerodrome of Oslo have developed, the needs of general aviation have always been part of the planning and localised to Fornebu. In connection with the presentation of St.prp. No 90 for 1991-92 on the extension of Gardermoen as the principal aerodrome, the Ministry states that it is necessary to establish a separate small aerodrome for the Oslo area. It's set at 50 million. kr as a framework for the country's involvement. I cannot, with my best will, see that this is fulfilled. In the matter we are now discussing about Fornebu, we will make a historic decision at our vote, which, once it is taken, cannot be reversed. I'm sure if the result is that the runway of billions of dollars on Fornebu is destroyed for all the future as a small airfield, our descendants will shake at the head of the parties that contributed to this result. If this decision is that Oslo loses its aerodrome, it will have the same importance as the decision on the Gardermoen as the main aerodrome, only with negative sign to those who need such an aerodrome. It will be alarming if Norway goes the opposite way to our neighbouring countries, which are expanding their local airports and do not shut them down. I am convinced that small air traffic will become more important and important in the coming years, both in terms of time consumption and independence from congested roads, especially for business. Oslo, the capital of the country, needs an aerodrome at a short distance from the city that can be used by visitors from other parts of the country and from abroad. In a modern society, small aircraft are increasingly used for self-transport by service owners and for holidays and leisure. The Gardermoen may not be used as a training aerodrome nor is it suitable for small aerodromes, as the scheduled service is at the forefront of the queue for slot slots. Small aeroplanes will come in second row when it comes to landing on the Gardermoen, and in practice it means that the aeroplanes are sent to waiting positions, designated as holding patterns, and with great probability being lying and waiting for a long time with subsequent fuel consumption. You can wonder if this is what the Swedish Aviation Agency means with an acceptable solution – that you are waiting so long for Gardermoen that you can land on Notodden just as much as you can, and then drive to Oslo. If Rakkestad and Notodden feel honored to be integrated into the Oslo area, they don't know. With the experience we have after the opening of the Gardermo, I don't have much hope of improving small-scale air traffic. This means that those who are users of small aeroplanes will lose both Fornebu and Gardermoen unless Fornebu can be used until an acceptable solution is found. The solution outlined by the Swedish Aviation Agency will split up the small-scale aircraft environment that has been refurbished for years at Fornebu, which is so important for the recruitment of the pilot profession. It seems to me that the Aviation Administration and the Ministry of Transport are under pressure from the major airlines, who are afraid of any future scheduled service at a still open airport at Fornebu and consider this to be a danger to their own traffic base on the Gardermoen. I think this is the only reasonable reason why strong forces are so spasmodic that Fornebu will be destroyed as an airport for all future. In our nearest neighbouring country, Sweden, Bromma was retained when Arlanda was built as the main airport. There are now the following activities: school flights, private flights, business flights, taxi flights and some domestic scheduled flights. Arlanda is used for international and regular services. Over the last four years, 100 million have been invested. kr on Bromma. This shows how important a GA aerodrome is to be in Sweden's capital. In addition, the taxi and business flights have taken a heavy stand lately, and according to the Swedish Aviation Agency, Bromma will not close until a new GA aerodrome is built in Stockholm’s immediate vicinity. What is the reason why a part of Fornebu cannot be used temporarily by small aeroplanes can only be wondered about. It should also be good district policy that it is possible for regional flights to have satisfactory landing opportunities in the vicinity of the country's capital. After I've learned, I've spent $12 million. NOK at the Gardermoen of the 50 million. kr that was set aside in its time to solve the small-aircraft problem, and SEK 5 million. kr on Notodden, without the problem being solved.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1976	When Christopher Stensaker, Thore Aksel Nistad and I have promoted this proposal to maintain part of the aircraft operations at Fornebu, it is based on a recognition that there is a need for a GA aerodrome in the Oslo area. There is a need for an aerodrome with an overall environment and there is a need for a GA aerodrome that is close to the city. This feels that the Progress Party is a fundamental need that needs to be taken into account by the Storting. And we would like to refer to the majority in the vote from the Committee on Transport to St.meld. No 38 for 1996-97 Norwegian Air Navigation Plan 1998-2007, which stated that it was important to ‘provide an acceptable solution for the small airline environment in the Oslo area by October 1998 when Fornebu airport is shut down’. This premise we believe in the Progress Party has not been followed up. The offer made by the department, where the whole environment is split up at a number of airports around, can in no way be said to be an acceptable solution. Therefore, we believe it is necessary to maintain general aviation on Fornebu, so that there is a political pressure to ensure that a proper offer is made for this flight. We cannot see that the other parties have been involved in any way, so they have not been able to follow up the comments of the majority of the Committee on Transport. I take up the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1985	The day Danielsen has taken up the suggestion he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1988	The question of a shared solution has been settled many years ago. The Gardermoen is open. The landing lights at Fornebu are off. I see no need to spend more time carrying oats to a dead horse.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e1993	In a letter to the Committee on Transport of 27 October 1998, I stated what it would mean for the development of the entire Fornebu area to continue using parts of Fornebu as a small aerodrome. When further assessed, an aerodrome at Fornebu will intervene decisively in the re-use of the entire area. This applies regardless of whether it is a reserve aerodrome as indicated in the proposal in Document No. 8:2, an aerodrome identified by the Fornebuaktion with the continued use of the main runway and parts of the despatch building, or a small so-called small environmental aerodrome in a hook of the Fornebu area. I am well pleased that such a large majority will reject the proposal for continuing flight activity at Fornebu, and thus has rejected a resurgent Fornebu as an aerodrome in some form. In my opinion to the Committee on Transport, I have explained the situation to small aircraft users. These have claimed that there is no satisfactory alternative offer to Fornebu, and for the small pilots who live nearby, Fornebu has been a very reasonable offer. Furthermore, it has been claimed that the information and the offer of a so-called GA aerodrome, General Aviation aerodrome, to replace Fornebu and Small Aircraft Alternative Bases, came too late. The services offered are claimed to be too expensive. These views should not get stuck. The Swedish Aviation Agency has an official publication service for large and small pilots, pilots and others in the professional community, both nationally and internationally. Information to the scientific community on the closure of Fornebu and the opening of Gardermoen has taken place in joint communications and at the same time. There has been no discrimination between large airlines and small airline owners as regards information on the closure of navigation facilities, new airspace structure, slot coordination and the opening of a dedicated GA traffic terminal in the old terminal on the west side of the airport at Gardermoen. I also mention the simultaneous publication of visual flight maps on the Gardermoen for light aircraft and for training flights. The joint notice has been necessary because small-scale air traffic must be included and seen in a wider context as an air operation. Furthermore, it has been claimed that the offer of base for small aeroplanes at existing aerodromes other than the Gardermo was late. First of all, I would like to mention that I was not even aware of the fact that the Stortinge treated St. Prop. No 90 for 1991-92, from the responsible political team in the department or in the aviation department, the small pilots have been suggested to stay at Fornebu. All major airlines and operators quickly realised the reality of the Storting decision and were themselves involved in the development process. The late arrival of the offer of base at other existing aerodromes is not due to the lack of work on the matter – and in relation to the small aircraft owners – by the Swedish Aviation Agency, but to the fact that finding a suitable new airport with acceptable environmental effects within Oslo’s immediate proximity has been found in the past. And the environmental problems were also a very important reason, in addition to the capacity problems, that air traffic had to get away from Fornebu. In developing the offer at the existing airports, and in assessing what is an acceptable offer, I will as so far relate to Storting's treatment of St. report. No 38 for 1996-97 Norwegian Air Transport Plan 1998-2007. It involves facilitating existing aerodromes. What is acceptable and not acceptable will be assessed against the plan. It is provided that measures relating to small air traffic at Gardermoen and other locations are to be financed under the framework of Oslo Airport AS up to 50 million. 1992-krona. As mentioned in my opinion to the Committee, the Swedish Aviation Agency has indicated that until now, including the measures taken on the Gardermoen, 32 million have been used or committed. kr. Although it is the passengers on the Gardermo who are thus paying for these measures, in order to avoid that small air traffic is seizing important and costly capacity at the main aerodrome of the normal air passenger, I would like to mention that these resources are the resources of society and that they must be prioritised in this respect. In further work on the organisation of small-scale air traffic, I would like to follow closely the activities of seaplanes in the inner Oslofjord. The Aviation Agency has concluded that the seaplanes around Fornebu may continue their operations until any regulatory changes indicate that movement is required. However, it will be assumed that users obtain permits and comply with the guidelines applicable at all times under the Aviation Act.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e2014	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e2017	I noticed what the council said, but I am not satisfied with the content, which he certainly understands. I'm aware that most people want a nearby airport, but rather not where they live, it's better that it's next door. That's it, and that's always going to be it. But here's what political governance has to come in. You have to see the whole and the social benefits of an airport at Fornebu, and in my opinion it will be larger than with millionaire villas on airstrips. I have no faith that land is laid out for ordinary wallets in the area. I would also believe that increased settlement in the area will create increased traffic on an already congested road bill. It is rather doubtful whether there had been any main airfield on the Gardermoen if the municipality and the residents had the right of destination, but the location shows that it is possible to set an airport where one finds it best just the will is present. A significant advantage of maintaining Fornebu for GA traffic is that the infrastructure that is not already destroyed exists there and that such traffic could make a positive contribution to future establishment as well as providing room for current and tomorrow GA traffic. Attention must also be paid to the importance of such an aerodrome in a crisis situation, in the event of an emergency landing and in the case of taxi and photo flight.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e2024	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1009]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e2032	We then go to voting in case No. 1 - 5.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e2039	A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the proposals No. 2 and 10, by Thore Aksel Nistad, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposals Nos. 3 and 11, by Oddvard Nilsen on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 4, 12, 13 and 14, by Inge Myrvoll, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 5, by Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 6 – 9, from Oddvard Nilsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right The President will propose that a vote be taken first on the minority proposals independent of the budgetary framework, then on minority proposals Nos. 2, 3 and 4 under Framework Area 18, as an alternative between Option Box 18 and Proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party and finally above the Roman numeral IX of the adjustment. No objections have been raised, and that is what will be done. It shall be open to explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e2067	Based on the signals I received in the hall, I ask that there be a separate vote on proposal No. 12th@item: inlistbox Proposal No. 13 and 14 can be combined. Once I am up here, I would of course ask the SV Group to vote in favour of the proposals we are proposing. However, when our draft budget falls, I must recommend the Group to vote in favour of the Labour Party's proposal, because it is a little less bad than the alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e2074	Then we are ready for voting, and it is first voted on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the context of a new tendering period for the purchase of air route services, the Government requests that a price reduction of 30 pst be made as a premise for the tenderer. in addition to sufficient frequency, seating capacity, etc.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e2086	The proposals are then put to the vote. 13 and 14 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asked the Government to investigate the possibility of outsourcing the main route network in North Norway and between North and South Norway for public purchases, and to calculate the cost of price reductions from 10 pst. to 50 pst. according to current frequency and capacity.’» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The size assumes that the NSB BA and the Railway Works are managed by the same Executive Director and that the same persons are on the board of the NSB BA and the Railway Works respectively, as provided for by the Innst Committee. [[1996-97]] S. No 31
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e2105	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for the National Roadfers to be presented as their own budget line in the State budget for the year 2000’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e2119	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to enable all eligible bus operations to be tendered.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e2133	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 – 9, from the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to open up free access to the establishment of express buses.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present the Road Traffic Authority as its own performance unit and budget line in the State budget for the year 2000’.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to convert NSB BA into a limited liability company.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to amend the provisions requiring the counties to redeem the means of operation of the routes being tendered.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e2162	Proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to voting: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to propose in the State budget for 2000 final appropriations for restructuring measures in the Post Norway BA in line with the assumptions of the majority of the Grand Duchy Committee on Transport of the Budget. [[1998-99]] S. No 13
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e2176	We are now going to the proposals under the framework area 18. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I. The 1999 budget provides for: Cape TownSubjectCronesCronesExpenditure1060Cystadadministration [[transferred from cover. 2450, item 24 Operating profit or loss]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e3726	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I. The 1999 budget provides for: Cape TownSubjectCronesCronesExpenditure1060Cystadadministration [[transferred from cover. 2450, item 24 Operating profit or loss]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e5249	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I. The 1999 budget provides for: Cape TownSubjectCronesCronesExpenditure1060Cystadadministration [[transferred from cover. 2450, item 24 Operating profit or loss]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e8304	Alternatively, there will be a vote between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, which reads: ‘I. The 1999 budget provides for: Cape TownSubjectCronesCronesExpenditure1060Cystadadministration [[transferred from cover. 2450, item 24 Operating profit or loss]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e10494	During the debate, Mr Danielsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the proposal contained in the vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to facilitate the operation of the conditions so that parts of Fornebu aerodrome can be used as a small aerodrome until other acceptable solution to the solo aerodrome is realised.’ [[GA traffic]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-09.ana.ud308e10518	There is no record.
