ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e36	The representative Anneliese Dørum, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e44	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e49	I suggest Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e54	Asmund Kristoffersen has been proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Asmund Kristoffersen is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. Before the cases are considered, the President will propose that this morning's meeting be interrupted for the Grand Council's Christmas meeting at 9 p.m. 13.45 and set again for the evening meeting at 2.30 p.m. 16:00. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e68	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers for each party group, and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e79	This is about approving an amendment to Annex I to the EEA Agreement – until daily we call it the veterinary agreement. The EEA Agreement, known to enter into force on 1 January 1994, entered into force six months later. At the time, the EU’s own legislation in this area was under assessment, and Norway and the other EFTA countries – which at the time were several times more than today – maintained their national provisions in certain areas. It was then stated that these areas would be negotiated during 1995. These are provisions specifying how the product or animal is to be checked on importation, provisions on trade in live fish, crustaceans, small ruminants, labelling of animals and EU provisions on animal protection. The same was true of the financial arrangements. If the present agreement is now approved, the veterinary border inspection will be suspended and replaced by the provisions laid down in the so-called control directives. In practice, this means that the current system of veterinary checks at the border is lost, and that instead we have a control system where those who are to import live animals or animal products must be registered in a public register. Checks shall then be carried out at the premises of the consignor, the producer, prior to dispatch to Norway, and random checks may be carried out at the premises of the consignee. When such a consignment is in order, the consignee shall notify the supervisory authorities at least 24 hours before the goods arrive. Thus, the current border control is removed and replaced by control at the consignor and at the person importing the animal or the commodity. In any case, the recipient will be concerned with documentary and identity checks and physical veterinary checks. Here, physical checks will be essentially based on samples, as is the current regime at the border, while document and identity checks will be carried out by the importer for all consignments of goods. Documents shall be kept in such a way as to allow supervisory authorities to review and verify them as a matter of urgency. If there is a suspicion that the goods arriving do not fully comply with the requirements of quality, documentation or purity, the whole consignment may be checked anywhere after entering the country, preferably at the border. Thus, if there is a suspicion that the consignment does not have the required quality, other types of checks may be carried out. Norwegian control has two functions. One is to check that the product complies with the requirements, to check that the food is in order, to check that the animal is healthy. Secondly, there is a check that the equivalent control at the consignor is working. In addition, a number of new national monitoring and monitoring programmes are in place to systematically maintain and in certain areas improve animal health and food quality in Norway. We can demand that what is imported by food and live animals should be at the same quality level as ourselves. An example is the work done in relation to salmonella, which has led to a particularly favourable situation in this country in this area. As a consequence of this programme, we can now demand that meat, eggs and live animals imported into the country come from producers who are subject to as strict controls as the one we carry out here in the country. If, for various reasons and in a qualified manner, we suspect or know that the product does not have the quality we require, the security clauses enter into, and we can then do what is necessary to ensure the quality of food and animal health, for example by refusing to import goods from the producer concerned. This is based on a national judgement. This assessment is carried out by Norway and Norway’s supervisory authorities. When such decisions are taken, there are certain formal requirements and the EU needs to be informed about what is being done. I must be allowed to quote what the Minister of Agriculture said in the open hearings on this matter in relation to the security clauses: «Of course, you shouldn't do this because you want to. There must be a reason for that, and it is then that one believes that animal or public health is threatened in some way." The Minister of Agriculture also said that if we have to go on doing so, if we have to implement these clauses, 'it will of course be up to the national authorities to take the decisions' which are desirable or necessary. If Norway now adopts this agreement in addition to these modified control systems, it also means that we become the EEA's external border, and consequently the EU's external border. The control against third countries has the consequence that imports from these countries have to pass through certain specific control stations. This raises a legitimate question as to which problems might arise, for example: landing of fish from Russia, which is a third country. Will this create problems for fisheries recipients and farms in our area? Firstly, fresh fish are not covered by this. Fresh fish can be landed where it is appropriate to land without passing this type of control. In the case of frozen fish, or other fishery products, it is agreed that if the reception is not too far from the nearest control station, the control station will move out with an ambulatory check. If the fishing reception is too far from such a control station, a local unit will be set up at the reception to carry out the necessary checks. The conclusion of this is that it will not lead to problems with the landing of fish from third countries. I think it's pretty easy to understand that you're skeptical about leaving a control system with which we have experience, in order to establish a new one. Nevertheless, it is my opinion that the arrangement that this agreement is based on is not just as good as the one that we have, it is actually better. The control system we put in place is better than the one we leave. I am not alone in saying that, for the director of the State Institute for Public Health, Bodolf Hareide, who is also the head of the Scientific Committee on Food Safety, said the following at the hearing: ‘But the Scientific Committee has carried out a qualitative risk analysis in this assessment, and that is how we expect the new regime to be better than what works today.’ I believe that what we leave out of control arrangements can be said with great certainty to be maintained at at least the same level of the regime being introduced. It will obviously be so that the new system can also be further developed, and I am pleased that the Government provides for a comprehensive evaluation, and that an overall assessment of the legislation, together with an analysis of the disease situation, will be presented to the Grand Duchy in 2001. I recommend this majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e119	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e122	Norwegian fish exports are one of the industries that will be affected if you do not agree to this agreement. Norwegian fish exports are the export industry No. 2 in this country. We export one million tonnes to the EU, about 15 trailer loads of fish per year. hours of work are exported to the EU from Norway. Of course, this agreement goes both ways; we import, among other things. EU meat, approx. one trailer load per trailer load per trailer load per trailer load per trailer load per trailer load per trailer load per trailer load per trailer load per trailer load per trailer load per trailer load per trailer load per trailer In a note from the Centre Party in the setting for processing, it says: ‘However, this member has noticed that in the proposition it has not been possible to demonstrate the economic and practical consequences it will have for Norwegian fish exports to the EU, compared to the current situation, if the size does not accept the veterinary agreement.’ Here, to my knowledge, it lies what I would call an insinuation against the Government and the Minister of Fisheries. It says that ‘it has not been possible to document’. Understood: One has tried, but one has not succeeded in trying to document this. I think the Minister for Fisheries, both in the open hearings and otherwise in general, in an excellent way, also together with a comprehensive Norwegian fishing export environment, has shown the consequences of following the minority in the Government. I could imagine having the case rapporteur assess the consequences he sees for Norwegian fish exports if Stortinget – against assumption – would follow the minority in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e136	First, some have believed that without this agreement, fisheries exports would be able to continue as they are today, and that there are certain rules that will prevent the EU from tightening up. It turns out to be wrong. It is true that we will then be a third country, and the rules that the European Union has already introduced for other third countries will, of course, also apply to us. And then there's a couple of things to point at. One is an increased frequency of control. That's now that side of it. The other side is that if you go into what the EU puts into the concept of ‘physical control’, what it actually results from controls at the border station, it is quite extensive. Its name is, among other things, in addition, a certain number of packages must be taken from different places in the consignment. That means you have to go in and take packages in different places on the load. It shall be checked for temperature, weight, must be checked for odour, colour, consistency, taste, etc. and by thawing and boiling. So it's obvious that you're facing quite extensive physical checks. The other side of this is, as I mentioned before, that there must be control stations in relation to third countries. And then we become a third country, and then there are certain control stations that our fish exports have to pass. These control stations need not necessarily be in the shortest loop. We know, for example. that very many of our fishing carriers and exporters today come from the north, enter Sweden, go down along Norway, return to Norway and so on. It's the best and fastest way. So they're going to have to go to these special control stations, and they're going to have to pass them at times when they're staffed with a veterinarian. I therefore believe it is obvious that the disadvantage of fishing exports will be significant if this agreement is not adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e143	I would like to take as my starting point what I believe is the rapporteur and I agree. Firstly, increasing international trade in food and other biological material increases the risk of infection and disease. Secondly, Norway is in a very favourable situation both in the case of foodborne diseases and in the case of animal health. We also know that increased trade in food is a prerequisite and a goal for the WTO, and we know that in the Storting there is a pressure in the same direction. In 1992 when we were given the EEA Agreement, it stated that the border control was ‘essential for the maintenance of our favourable animal health status’. In the setting up of the EEA Protocol, it was underlined how important it was for us that Norway could maintain the national provisions in relation to trade in animals and foodstuffs. Since 1992, trade in animal products has increased, and the situation of infection in the countries with which we trade has deteriorated. It was documented during the hearings. And in such a situation, a normal belief we would need a better control system and a more stringent control. However, as was said here, in order to facilitate Norwegian fish exports, the precautionary principle leaves and opts out of a border control system that was highlighted not only as important but as crucial in 1992. Because this is primarily a consumer question, I will ask the following questions: Does the case-rapporteur understand the concern expressed by the head of the Consumer Council on behalf of consumers when she refers to this as a ‘risky gambling’?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e154	To first address this with the border control and that the Storting said in its time that the border control was essential. Yes, it is quite clear that control of imports of food and live animals is essential. Of course, what Storting did not take a stand or had any particular meaning about then was other possible control arrangements. What was obvious was that imports of live animals and food had to be controlled. I don't think the Storting had any dramatic and qualified opinion that this control necessarily had to happen on the frontier and in the way that it's done now. The control currently carried out at the border is certainly reasonably good, but it is a random check and at a falling frequency. For example, if we import 1,000 units, 60 of these units are sampled. So you can't glorify today's system to those degrees. It's a pretty good system, but it's not like you're leaving some bottom solid to switch to something that's relatively relaxed in the fish. [[laughs in the hall]] So the representative Jakobsen says that we need a better control system when increased trade comes – and it is possible that happens if there is the kind of development that the WTO sees for itself. Today we import 700,000 tonnes in this way, while at border trade 130 000 tonnes are imported into plastic bags by some of us. And that's exactly what I think we're getting now, I think this is a better system, with labelling, with control at the manufacturer, with control at the recipient. So I don't think we're leaving anything that was better. I think we're just doing this by getting a better system.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e161	This was not part of the fish argument, i.e. the fish argument that the fish spokesperson had in mind, I would like a little bit more depth. The very starting point for an agreement to be negotiated is that of Norwegian fish exports. That's what Jagland said, and that's what the Bondevik government says, even though the current government party said something completely different in the opposition. Then we thought in SV that this argument would be properly distributed in the landfill proposal and in the hearings. But that hasn't happened. There is therefore no evidence of the need for this agreement. On the contrary, the EU would find itself in a conflict with the EEA Agreement as well as with the WTO agreement on Norwegian fishing exports, which was discriminated against in border controls. So I simply have to ask the case spokesperson whether there is really a need for this agreement, or whether there are other needs that the majority of people have in this matter. The second question: the objective of the EEA Agreement is to increase trade both ways, and it is clear that we have a large trade in salmon, on which Gabrielsen was involved, but not a particularly large trade with the EU. Anne-Lise Bakken says today to some newspapers that it is hesitated by the Labour Party if they think that there will be no more trade. And when the case spokesperson is aware that there is more salmonella and other food-borne diseases in the EU – can the spokesman for this case, who says that control will now be better, promise the Norwegian people that there will be no more food-borne diseases in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e168	First, until the Consumer Council’s head said in open consultation – and I did not have time to reply to the representative Jakobsen – that this was ‘gambling’. I then told her that I thought this was strange – it was specifically about border control – because the Consumer Council meeting in August went through this and said that in order to accept, recognise or understand this agreement, they and those things had to be in place. All that's in place, so we've met the things that were there. It is claimed that the only reason why this agreement was negotiated is because of our fishing exports. Now it is very important, but it is so that when Annex I came into force in July 1994, there was a provision in it that these conditions should be negotiated during 1995. And on this issue of fish exports, and that the EU cannot discriminate against us, it is not discrimination that Norway is in the same situation as other third countries. That's the situation. We have exceptions to this right now because we are working on this agreement, and if we adopt it, we will not be a third country. If we do not adopt it, we are a third country and naturally have the same type of control over our exports as other third countries. So to the question of whether I can guarantee that there won't be any more foodborne diseases. What I can say is that this system, as far as I can understand, as far as our professional authorities can understand, is a better system than what we have today. And then I would think that this will also eventually lead to better food quality, not only in Norway, but throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e177	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e181	This is a matter of free trade, which is a very important principle for the Progress Party. It involves an international division of labour serving the consumer as a whole. It also involves the most rational and best use of resources, including internationally. It's also a fair arrangement, for those who produce the best and cheapest goods, get the reward that they get to sell them. It is also very important that trade does not depend on administrative decisions, which often invite corruption. It is also important for poor countries to have the opportunity to compete in areas that best match their production assumptions, which are cheap labour. Free trade also contributes to the failure of the major powers to use their political weight to squeeze through special advantages. Free trade guarantees against it. That is why free trade is an essential principle for the Progress Party. We are fully aware that there are reasons that can be stated against free trade, I mention only the quick sale of weapons, the protection of human and animal health, preparedness, employment, rural policy considerations, environmental protection and consumer protection. In the case of the veterinary agreement, health policy considerations are invoked to restrict free trade. Since, as I said, free trade is an important principle for the Progress Party, the Progress Party requires clear evidence, or at least a strong likelihood that significant health interests will be at stake if we extend free trade. It is now that so-called technical barriers to trade are often invoked — and often in vain — to limit free trade. Often, these technical barriers to trade are a shield of entirely different interests, namely to protect their own business. I could mention a curative example: the Belgians had a rule that margarine could only be sold in square cubes. As a result, other countries could not export margarine to Belgium. Belgium therefore stated that consumer considerations – in order for consumers to see the difference between butter and margarine – were necessary. It is a rather unfamiliar example of how consumer concerns can be expressed, in order to protect their own business. Today, the interests that are opposed to this agreement are essentially those that are rooted in agriculture and those that are very strongly opposed to the EU. Then one suspects that there may also be other arguments and interests behind the opposition to the agreement. It has also been found to be a pretty good rootstock of the population's conservatism in things like food, fear of the unknown, the stranger, and also some Norwegian self-satisfaction. It was not long ago, for example. suggested almost a disaster on the medical market if it ended on the Norwegian Medical Pot. We have a number of examples that Norwegian monopolies and schemes can in a way be equated with 17 May and the Constitution. I would like to point out an interesting contrast with the Norwegian people's attitude towards mass tourism. Now consider how large parts of the Norwegian people go to the South every year, where there is a much lower level of nutrition control than the EU, and many of the Norwegians go to the EU and eat the lust of the heart without any worries. You don't fear eating there. But if the food comes up here, you're afraid! A better sign of irrational attitudes in the depths of the people can hardly be imagined. I would believe that the parliamentary leader of the Central Party must now eventually also warn against this mass tourism, because there you eat food that has not been subject to the additional control that imported food under the agreement is to be subject to here in Norway. So it has to be even more risky to eat the food where it is made than to eat it here. I said as a starting point that we are strong followers of free trade. We want to place great emphasis on the fact that our professional authorities have accepted this. Personally, I'm not an expert on this question, and that's what the few are. In such situations, of course, there is reference to trusting the professional authorities. And not enough, almost even more important is that we have two central government councils who have accepted this agreement. It must be a bit of a guarantee – also that the entire agreement has a Christian People's Party in its back, which until those degrees are concerned with what we drink, and also with what we eat. When you add all of this together, I think it's a picture of security that shouldn't be disturbed by the fact that someone scares with salmonella, Trichinella and what's worse. Finally, I'm just going to mention the proposal of the Socialist Left Party, which reads like this: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate the use of referendums on essential issues relating to the relationship between Norway and the EU and to provide it to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ We are opposed to this proposal. We do not think there is any reason to point out precisely these EU issues as the subject of a referendum. We have proposed that something which we think is far more important, namely the issue of immigration into Norway, be the subject of a referendum. But it has gone against SV. We are opposed to such selective use of referenda, but if anyone wants to follow us in our Constitutional proposal on the general use of referenda in certain circumstances, we can continue with the SV on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e207	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e210	I think it was a very good post Fridtjof Frank Gundersen made for this agreement, but there are some things that I still want to address. Free trade is an essential principle of the Progress Party, said the representative Gundersen. He's against technical barriers to trade. Those who oppose this agreement are very strongly opposed to the EU, he said. Then he had an excellent example of the impact of tourism on society, where I fully support him. He also relied on the professionals who recommend the agreement, and on the two central party councils who agree to the agreement. All of this reflects a picture of security," said Fridtjof Frank Gundersen. Nevertheless, you can read in the setting on page 7: ‘The Group of the Party of European Socialists has decided to support the agreement without binding its representatives during the vote.’ It is quite strange that a party whose representative has made such an excellent contribution to the agreement is able to express itself so vaguely in relation to its own representatives. It's almost like hearing the representative Hagen in the EU debate when they were supposed to have both legs in the loose air, as the Left used to have in its time. But that the Progress Party was going to end up in the same booth, I think it's strange, especially after the excellent post to Fridtjof Frank Gundersen. My question will then be: Is it that there is not entirely unanimity in the Advancement Party, as Fridtjof Frank Gundersen has said from this pulpit? Is it so that we can expect great slippages when the vote comes?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e226	I think the last article testifies to one thing, and that is that at least the right is not a liberal party. The party of progress does not have the right to bind the big group. I myself waited nine years before I became a member of a political party, after I was elected to the Stortinget. What in the world are we going to do with good heads here in the Storting, if the only thing that's going to be expressed is a cooked-up point of view? Then we actually deserve nothing but a poor salary. What do we need for good heads if they are to drown in the last national meeting decision? I just want to say that it can be thought that the Group of the Party of Advancement is also being bound, but then we must have a special decision by a large majority – I always vote against such decisions, it happens that I lose – but whether there are any, and how many, of the representatives of the Party of Advancement who have, after careful consideration, found that they will support the Central Party in this matter, I do not really know.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e233	It was not surprising that the leading free trade spokesman hailed this agreement. In the Committee, the Progress Party argues that we should conclude the agreement, including: due to nervousness to make the export of fish more time-consuming and costly. At the same time, the Committee also calls for: ‘The majority consider it difficult to say exactly how much and how often the delays will be.’ So there's nothing exactly here. No numbers added on the table, no documentation presented. Everything may indicate that the claims about the disadvantages of fish exports are bluffy. And it doesn't have a lack of requests according to the facts. Then it appears that the details are known, that the agreement can nevertheless be dramatic in some areas for the fishing industry, but in very different directions. The agreement requires vessels from outside the EEA to be checked at EU approved control stations. They're ten of them along the Norwegian coast. This is mostly the case for deliveries of Russian fish that must enter a control station before the fish can be delivered to a Norwegian port, with the results it receives. In addition, the Agreement opens for imports of live fish. Experience with the fish disease furunkulose in the 1980s shows how vulnerable the fishing industry is to such imports. A derogation was then granted for imports of smolt from farms in Scotland. It costs over $1 billion to get rid of the disease. This shows that the veterinary agreement can quickly become expensive also for the fishing industry. So finally, what is the concrete thing that makes the Progress Party believe that the export of fish will be harmed by any refusal to the veterinary agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e249	I have to say that with regard to the last article, which was probably written in advance – and that is not exactly a line – I can only refer to what the rapporteur has said on this matter. He has addressed this question in an excellent way. Moreover, I have to say that in this matter I have particular confidence in the Minister for Fisheries and the Minister for Agriculture – especially when these agree.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e254	I had not intended to take any lines at Gundersen. His glittering posts are probably on his own legs. What I would like to ask has not much to do with this agreement. But since the Progress Party is based on liberal ideas – you do not bind your members etc. – it could be a bit exciting to hear Gundersen explain why in this case it is explicitly stated in his remark that the members are not bound. What is the reason for doing so in this case? I'm asking because I'm trying to get the idea of what the liberal basic ideas really are.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e261	I can inform the case rapporteur that this remark crept into one of my many stays abroad! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e266	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e269	It will be a little difficult to follow up the entertainment value of what was presented in the last article, but I'll try to take my monn back in content. The background to the negotiated agreement amending Annex I to the EEA Agreement – the veterinary agreement – which we are currently dealing with is the desire of the majority of people to have such an audit, among others. in the light of Norwegian exports of fish to the EU internal market, which were linked to the veterinary border inspection case. When the matter was debated in Stortinget on 23 January last year, the Christian People's Party supported a proposal to continue the existing veterinary checks. However, this proposal was defeated. It was the government of Harlem Brundtland and the government of Jagland that negotiated the agreement. However, the Bondevik Government has worked to complement the agreement with a number of so-called national compensatory measures to ensure that controls on imports of animal products and live animals are kept as high as possible. The Norwegian public and animal health standards are internationally high and there has been an important objective throughout the work on various control measures under a new veterinary regime to ensure that this high standard could be maintained. In the view of the Christian People's Party, the Government has done a good and thorough job of developing the necessary control measures so that the safety of public and animal health will now be ensured in at least as well as with the current system. At the same time, it is ensured that there will be opportunities for further development of the new control system in line with the needs that may arise. In the proposition, the Government has made clear the main measures as a precondition for the Government's positive recommendation in the case: Firstly, sufficient resources shall be allocated to the effective implementation of the control measures. Secondly, the safeguard clause shall be applicable if necessary. Thirdly, the measures and control system shall be continuously evaluated. And finally, fourthly, an evaluation report on the new Storing Code will be submitted by the end of 2001 together with any proposals for changes and improvements to the system. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the new control regime will be satisfactory in relation to the important objective of safeguarding public and animal health in our country. Here I am based on the clear statements available, including: by the State Health Authority, the State Institute for Public Health and the State Food Authority, which, in my opinion, remained as a main conclusion after the consultations with the professional communities, stakeholder organisations and the relevant expert councils. In this context, I think there is reason to note that, in addition to the national control, the authorities and suppliers in the country of dispatch will also have a greater obligation to ensure that the goods meet specific veterinary export requirements. In addition, a separate import register shall be kept, in which all establishments shall have internal controls in place and importers shall be obliged to notify the Norwegian veterinary authorities within 24 hours of importation. Customs and border registration will be maintained, a number of new national surveillance and monitoring programmes will be implemented and a corresponding control regime will be required from the manufacturer. If this is not in place, Norway may refuse to introduce the product. Overall, the revised agreement combined with the new national control measures will provide Norway with a satisfactory control system in relation to public and animal health, as assessed by the relevant competent authorities. There is no doubt a significant uncertainty in large sections of the population as to the implications of this new veterinary regime. This must be taken seriously and requires further follow-up. The impression created by the fact that a person goes from something that is completely safe and safe in terms of the risk of infection to something that is more risky and unsafe has no foundation in any professional assessment or justification. On the contrary, there is reason to claim that the new regime is at least as good as the existing regime. Therefore, it is important that the decision of the Storting today is followed up with the necessary factual, good and relevant information, which I hope the Minister of Agriculture can comment further. The importance of fish exports is, of course, central in this context. When exports to the EU internal market alone can reach DKK 20 billion, it is essential to contribute to solutions that do not weaken this important export market of such importance to the coastal population, not least in the north. But we do not sell out either public or animal health for increased exports of fish! Therefore, it is important and deserving that the Government has undertaken such a considerable effort to present as well and professionally sound a structure as is currently available.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e299	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e303	So, as the representative Steensnæs himself explained, the Christian People's Party has changed its position from last year to this year. I think it serves them to the honour of being able to have the self-recognition that they have come to the conclusion that the new control regime, as it is explained, will in fact not only be as good, but at least as well as the regime we have until today. What I could like to get the representative Steensnæs to come up with some thoughts about is simply the close and close cooperation they have with the Center Party. How does the Christian People's Party react to the fact that their partners in the Government and also here in Stortinget do not share their views on such an important matter as this? Is it because the views of the Central Party are black-and-white in relation to everything that has to do with the EU? What does the representative Steensnæs think about it, when he, for his part, takes the entire Christian People's Party to income so that we now have a better control regime than what we actually have today?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e313	The Christian People's Party's position on the veterinary agreement was determined by the question of whether Norway would change the veterinary regime. That debate had taken place on 23 January 1997. At the time, the Christian People's Party opposed this and voted in favour of a proposal that the current veterinary regime with border control should be maintained. But a clear majority went against this. On that basis and on that basis, the position of the Grand Duchy has been taken, and the Government has then followed up this with the so-called compensatory measures. The Christian People's Party today assesses whether, on the basis of the foundation created by the Stortinget, an agreement has been negotiated with control procedures which makes it appropriate to recommend this. There's this Christian People's Party in government has stood behind, that's this Christian People's Party's big group, with a few exceptions, will join. In our view, this agreement is good enough, yes, it is on several points better – as I also said in my article – than the existing control regime. This, of course, does not prevent the improvement of the existing control regime. This will constantly be a question of how much additional action will be taken to improve a control regime. So this comparison that the representative Frost Sterri invites me to do, it's not easy to implement. When it comes to the relationship with the Center Party, I can assure the representative Frost Sterri that it is excellent. I would also like to remind you that the central party in the government has different views on this. And that the Center Party's big group will go against this, I also have great respect for it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e320	It's a little difficult to get what the representative Steensnæs really thinks. On the one hand, he runs a disclaimer by referring to the majority of the population. On the other hand, he immediately says that the new control regime is better than the old one. Unn Aarrestad from the Senterpartiet has also been doing this with disclaimer today. I will quote from the press release that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sent out on 17 July 1998 – at 1 p.m. 20.14 it's on my fax. It says: ‘The new agreement ensures Norway’s export interests while taking into account safe food and good animal health. Without such an agreement, fish exports in particular would be affected, but also parts of the export-oriented agricultural production and food industry.» At the open hearings, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘It would seem unfortunate to the EU to doubt Norway’s willingness to comply with the obligations of the EEA Agreement if, after a agreed draft agreement was in place, it chose to reject it.’ Is it so that the Christian People's Party, on its own initiative, as a leading government party, recommends this agreement with the amended and improved control regime in the veterinary field, or is it still such that it is the majority of the population who have conducted the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e337	The Christian People's Party takes full responsibility for the agreement as it now exists. But I have little sense of Marit Nybakk's attempt to write about the story. The fact is that on 23 January 1997, the Stortinget held this debate, and the vote of the Christian People's Party in that debate I have made known in a previous line. On that basis, the majority of Stortings took a decision, namely that a revised Annex I to the EEA Agreement should be negotiated and that is the starting point of the Government of Bondevik. That agreement was finalised by the governments of Harlem Brundtland and Jagland. What the Bondevik government has provided is to complement the agreement with national control measures to ensure sound public and animal health. The issue today and the issue to be addressed by the Stortinge in my opinion today is therefore: Is this agreement sound and good enough to ensure this important objective, namely good public and animal health? For my part I have then said: I can take responsibility for that with a good conscience, I can recommend the Stortinget to join. That's what the matter is. I would also like to remind the representative Nybakk that the first government that Bondevik did when it came to the government offices was trying to renegotiate the veterinary agreement, in order to make it work in a different way if possible than through a loss of border control. That those negotiations did not take place, the bodies of Storting have been informed. What is now available as a result is a very good result. Professional bodies have confirmed that the agreement is fully sound, and it is in important areas better than the regime we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e344	The representative Steensnæs from the Christian People's Party, Rogaland, now greets Rogaland. After two years, he has shifted his diametrical position from what was said to the voters. In 1992, the Stortinget concluded an assessment of the Norwegian border control that it was crucial for the protection of our favourable animal health. In 1997, the Christian People's Party said its chief spokesman on the impending workers' party government: ‘It is... an expression of a conciliatory lack of history when the Government now enters in order to remove the veterinary border control against EU countries.’ It's only been two years. The Christian People's Party, together with SV, supports a proposal from the Center Party to cancel the negotiations on the veterinary agreement because he was not needed. Today, therefore, the Christian People's Party recommends its representatives Steensnæs and Are Næss, who were also the main speaker in 1997, and the plurality of the Christian People's Party recommends this agreement, which was therefore unhistorical to support. When the Christian People's Party makes a fall for the yes party and fails its own positions so fundamentally, it is clear that they are involved in increasing political contempt enormously. My question to Steensnæs is as follows: When one two years ago said that there was no need for this agreement, why is this idea now completely insane? Is this something totally uninteresting to the Christian People's Party? Isn't it true one such thing before, that it's historyless to support such an agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e362	I believe that what might be involved in increasing the political bias out there among people is when politicians want to close their eyes to the reality that surrounds us, and hold to principles from yesterday and past situations with completely different framework conditions, a completely different starting point, and bite themselves into this without being able to orient themselves in a new reality. I honestly believe that it is a problem for us politicians to be able to see with healthy eyes and take inward the reality of today's political challenge. That is the responsibility of the Christian People's Party in this situation. We had a position on January 23, 1997, that's right. We were against the change in the veterinary regime because we thought what we had was safe and good, and we were uncertain about the new thing that came. Now there's a reality that we've put behind us. The size of the population is a clear decision to amend the Annex – I – of the EEA Agreement to link fish with imports of animal products. From that point of view, the Bondevik Government has negotiated the control measures and the veterinary regime of the Stortinge. From that point of view, I take the responsibility of assessing the proposal that exists, and I say in the light of the evaluation of the professional authorities: this is good enough, this is responsible, this will ensure us the public and animal health that is so important – as we had under the old regime – and that we can now actually continue in the new, even with greater certainty and greater security in important areas than the old regime did. It's not promoting political contempt, it's taking responsibility on behalf of our voters.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e371	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e374	The reality has gotten the no-regime. A trip to Brussels in November 1997 was what had to happen. It is only surprising that some central party councils continue to refuse to take this inward despite the clear recommendation made by the party and government counterpart Angelsen to the Stortingen to adopt the veterinary agreement. In retrospect, it might be an idea for the entire College of Government to take a group trip to Brussels to ensure a common experience of reality. The central government recommends the agreement under four assumptions, listed in the proposition. The revised agreement has been negotiated by the Labour Party Government and involves the short termination and replacement of veterinary border controls by other control measures, the primary responsibility of which lies with the country of dispatch for the control of food and food products being found to be in order for export. The agreement involves the introduction of a number of new control mechanisms and information procedures to replace the current border control. Through open consultations conducted jointly by the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Trade Committee, the Right has received the necessary confirmations that the preliminary conclusion we gave to the draft agreement as it was presented in January 1997 in the Stortingen, is now also our final conclusion and clear recommendation. We note that: The agreement in combination with national control and surveillance programmes compensates for the loss of border control. Checks are being strengthened in a number of areas. The Agreement prevents a more extensive veterinary border control in the export of Norwegian fish and fishery products, which is essential for Norwegian fishing exports and for the fishing industry. The Agreement strengthens cooperation between the Norwegian veterinary authorities and the veterinary authorities in the other EEA territory. It is on this basis that we agree with the Government's recommendation. However, allow me to comment on the bizarre situation that has arisen between the Centre Party and their own members of government. In the setting, the Johan J. Jakobsen of the Centre Party states among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘This member considers that there is reason to doubt the allegations that trailers with fish from Norway would risk having to wait for days to cross the border crossing to the EU. Such a practice would, in the event of a failure to comply with the objectives of the provisions and the objectives of the EEA Agreement.’;» To this end, during the open consultation, the Minister for Fisheries shall reply: ‘I would like to clarify that it is the potential of the new border control for delays that are significant. At my discretion, this is indisputable. So I find it hard to understand that someone stubbornly denies such a reality. The fact that other considerations are given greater weight after a well-thought-out, I respect, but not that the fishing arguments are swept under the carpet as non-existent.’ Furthermore, the central part of the setting says: ‘This member therefore recognises the need for the fishing industry to have as easy as possible market access to the EU. However, this member has noted that in the proposition it has not been possible to demonstrate the economic and practical consequences it will have for Norwegian fish exports to the EU, compared to the current situation, if the size does not accept the veterinary agreement.» To this the Minister for Fisheries replied during the open hearing: ‘If the Storting says no to the agreement, the frequency of physical checks will be 20 pst. for fresh, frozen, salted and hermetic fish products. For other fish products, including smoked salmon, and shrimp products, the frequency will be 50 pst. Those percentages result from the harmonised EU border control legislation with effect from 1 January 1997. As a result of a special scheme, Norway has released this adjusted frequency pending the implementation of the negotiated agreement.» It must be a strong and unpleasant experience for the Minister for Fisheries that his factual information as a specialist council then until those degrees are questioned by his party traps. But the really worrying thing about the central party's position on this issue is that the purpose of keeping the party's black-and-white attitude towards the EU is put ahead of what the country should be served with. There should be a powerful wake-up to all those in Coast Norway who have their work in the fishing industry. It is not the EU, but it is the Central Party that poses the threat to all these jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e424	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e427	It is not difficult to agree with the last time that the representative Frost Sterri said, but I have a few other questions for the representative. It is widely held that the amendment of Annex I to the EEA Agreement, i.e. the veterinary agreement, also leads to increased and uncontrolled imports of food and animal products. This was last claimed by the representative Langeland in a reply earlier today. In a paper published by the campaign against the extension of the EEA Agreement, Aina Edelmann writes among others. the desire for the least possible food imports and food for the Nordics must be produced in an environmentally sound manner as far as possible in Norway. Aina Edelmann's point is that the veterinary agreement itself will lead to increased imports, and I would like the representative Frost Sterri to comment on it. The representative was a little bit concerned with consumer interests, and most of us are very concerned that we get high-quality food, which is healthy, and which we are sure does not lead to a deterioration in our public health. So I would like to ask: does the representative Frost Sterri think that the Norwegian consumer role is taken seriously by the new control regime, which is thus replacing the border control we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e438	First of all, with increased imports in connection with the veterinary agreement. I'm quite startled at how people who express themselves and want to appear with professional weight express themselves against better knowledge and actually seduce the population by asserting such things – as Marit Nybakk pointed out – as Aina Edelmann does. We also noticed during the open hearings that there were indeed some incorrect information that was communicated to us, which fortunately we were verified during the hearings, including with the specialist councils. So I have to say that making such a claim that the veterinary agreement itself will lead to increased imports is both misleading people and speaking against better knowledge. What we know, of course, is that a result of the forthcoming WTO negotiations could increase imports of food. That is why I think it is very right for the Government and the Minister of Agriculture to prepare for the construction of border inspection posts – Norway will then become an external border with the EU – also to dimension it in view of the fact that there may be changes through the negotiations on the WTO agreement. But we don't know about that yet, and we don't know how long these negotiations will take. However, there is nothing in the veterinary agreement itself that should lead to increased imports of food, whether from the EU or from other countries. We still have our customs controls at the border, and there is nothing about the customs rates that change through this. I'm not going to comment on this with the consumer interests, but we'll see if I get the chance during the loop.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e450	The representative Siri Frost Sterri, once again, gave a very small impression that one had counter-representatives with regard to the content of this agreement that we are debating today, and the effects of it. Just the last representative Siri Frost Sterri was in the reply to Marit Nybakk, could suggest that the Right obviously does not aim to increase imports, nor does it aim to weaken the customs rates that represent that protection, and that is to the extent an interesting information. In his speech Siri Frost Sterri presented it so that, in particular, we in the Centre Party, who wish to have a broad view of this matter too, think black, and as a Union follower, she obviously had the right position on this issue too! This is an agreement with a clear balance of border protection. The plurality of the people means it, and also many trade unions believe it. The representative Siri Frost Sterri placed great emphasis on fisheries issues, and it is quite clear that, as laid down by the government of Jagland, this negotiating arrangement has a weighty border protection in favour of the EU's untimely demands on the fishing side. My question in relation to this slightly unsubstantiated post of the representative Siri Frost Sterri is: is there any doubt about anything, especially when it concerns the fishing industry? Would this lead to non-infection in the farming industry, to wild breeds, to the fishing industry, which is dependent on raw material from third countries, not meeting a single problem? A little more nuanced hold I had actually waited for by the representative Siri Frost Starri and Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e461	So this article came from a representative of one of the parties to a government that today recommends the Storting to adopt this agreement. I think it speaks for itself. We have gone into this and choose to believe the Councils both in what they say, and what they said during the hearings about what changes mean. Now allow the representative Holte Right a prerequisite, which I actually did not express. What I said was that the veterinary agreement itself does not lead to increased imports of food into Norway. I didn't say anything about what the Right's position on these questions is, for the representative Holte wants to know that here we have clear positions that are going to help the poorest of the poor countries in the world to sell their products to, among other things. countries like Norway, where I know that the Centre Party, precisely to protect Norwegian agricultural products and Norwegian farmers, is strongly opposed. But that's not what this is about. I don't want to be good enough that there can't be any diseases associated with, among other things. Our salmon, as the representative Holte was inside. But we're going to hope that we can still manage to prevent this. We've had diseases related to the farmed salmon before, so in that case it wouldn't be the first time. The representative Holte said we're now getting a clearly weakened border guard. What he forgot to say was that to replace the veterinary checks at the border, we built up a series of reinforcements of the other measures to ensure healthy and healthy food.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e472	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e475	In a few years we have experienced a strong increase in cross-border trade. We have had changes in the trade conditions associated with the establishment of the WTO, the establishment of the EEA Agreement, we have been through negotiations on EU membership, and today we are discussing an extension of the EEA Agreement, which means that border controls on biological products, trade in live animals, animal products and foodstuffs are disappearing. From a number of sources, consideration has been given to the fishing industry. Norway is a major exporter of fish and fish products, and because of this, it has the lowest possible trade barriers and the simplest possible market access, in particular to the EU, which is clearly the largest single market for Norwegian fisheries. It is therefore not difficult to understand from this point of view that it is appropriate to agree to an extension of the EEA Agreement. However, our task as elected representatives is to weigh such business considerations against other considerations in order to be able to base as comprehensive an assessment as possible on the decisions we make. By accepting the extended EEA Agreement, Norway will have to provide the border protection that both the Harlem Brundtland Government and the majority of the Storting in October 1992 considered to be ‘a substantial protection against infectious and serious diseases’. In St. pp. No 100 for 1991-92 states that: «Norwegian livestock generally have very good health. All serious infectious diseases in animals have either been eradicated or brought under control. Several of the most serious diseases have never been diagnosed here in the country. Few other countries have similar good animal health conditions. There are several reasons for this. Norway has been largely self-sufficient in animal products and imports of live animals and animal products have been very small.’... ‘As a consequence of increased trade, it would be natural to increase preparedness for outbreaks of infectious diseases. This applies both to border inspection and to increased capacity of the veterinary laboratories.» These are wise words, but the border guard, which, in my opinion, gives the most important protection, is the bulk of the population today willing to give up. This implies leaving a precautionary principle whereby food imports are subject to control before the products reach the consumer and replace it with a system of random checks to minimise the flow of goods. In practice, this means that imported food will be mainly checked out in the retail outlets and that the commodities may be digested before the analytical results are available. The Government has included in its proposal compensatory measures to remedy the weaknesses inherent in the veterinary agreement. These measures are isolated in good and reasonable terms and should, in the opinion of the Centre Party, be an important complement to the current system, but in no way be able to replace the security of border controls. In this context, I refer you to the opinion of the State Health Authority dated 14 October 1998, which states: ‘Although the quantity of products imported would not increase significantly, we fear that an extension of Annex I to the EEA Agreement would increase the pressure on Norway due to the reduction of veterinary border controls.’ I have already been in our interests as a fishing nation on a general basis. However, I believe that there is reason to ask questions as to whether the negative consequences of not agreeing to the veterinary agreement will be as great as you can believe from the arguments of some drivers. It is a fact that there is no evidence of the economic impact on the industry or of the extent to which the changes in the control regime we are going to be in practice. In this context, I would like to point out that the landfill proposal shows that practical arrangements will be in place for imports from third countries into Norway in order to ensure the smoothest possible control. So flexibility has been accepted to make control practical in relation to the needs of the industry. This is positive and should, in my opinion, indicate that it would be possible to achieve similar flexibility even if we chose to say no to the agreement. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Government has done a thorough job of developing compensatory measures, which, within a new regime, will provide maximum security for public and animal welfare. In spite of this and on the basis of an overall assessment, the central party believes that the conclusion of the veterinary agreement will mean that Norway will replace a system that has so far proved appropriate for the protection of public and animal health with a system that will not take account of these considerations to an equal extent. The centre party will vote against I in the setting on this basis. However, if this were to be approved, the Central Party will vote in favour of II.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e511	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e514	It is doubtful from a number of quarters whether it is important for the Norwegian fishing industry that the Storting agrees today with the amendments to Annex I to the EEA Agreement. There is a clear impression that Norwegian fish exports will actually go very well even if we say no to the new veterinary supplement in the EEA Agreement. In the debate so far, the representatives of the Central Party have so completely built up under this. Und Aarrestad said in his reply to Fridtjof Frank Gundersen that it is almost ‘a bluff’ to claim that the veterinary agreement is important for the fishing industry. These are strong words. These claims are opposed to the entire Norwegian fishing industry – fishermen, breeders, fish buyers, fish industry and fish exporters. Everyone is quite unambiguous: this agreement is very important for the Norwegian fishing industry. Yes, even the Minister of Fisheries of the No Party of the Senterpartiet, Enoksen's own party, stresses the importance of this for the entire Norwegian fishing industry. My questions to Enoxen are simply: Is the entire Norwegian fishing industry wrong? Is the Minister for Fisheries totally wrong? Is not the whole Norwegian fishing industry doing its own good?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e523	I want to refer again to what I said in my speech about the importance of Norwegian fishing industry having the simplest possible market access. What we've been focusing on, however, is an overall assessment of these relationships. It is true that an overall Norwegian fishing industry has said that it is desirable to accede to this agreement. There have been economic considerations taken into account, and – as I said in my speech – I understand that such an approach is being chosen to such a case as this one. But it's not that absolutely everyone is equally unambiguous. For example, Norway’s Fischarkvinnelag have: to the effect that, on the basis of an overall assessment, it is considered that the opposite position should be taken. So it's like all of the arguments that are being used are well-known. They were used for the tediousness of the yes-side even during the EU fight. Everyone has seen developments in retrospect. The ‘yes’ page said about what would be the result for Norwegian fishing industry if you did not become a member of the EU has proved to be a failure in all areas. It is also the case that we know that the demand for fish and fish products will increase sharply in the future, while access to resources will be limited. The resource represented by our fishing industry suggests that no consumer nation will be served by a control regime that prevents fish products from reaching consumers as quickly as possible. On the other hand, it is also the case – and I think it should be emphasised in this context – that, as a fishing nation, we should facilitate as much as possible the conditions to deal with as many parts of the available raw material as possible. In practice, in my opinion, this would mean that we need to facilitate as easy as possible access for Russian fishing vessels, not which are now introducing a regime that complicates access despite the flexibility achieved by this agreement. It will be important for us as a fishing nation to build up under the supply of raw materials, because market access and border control will not be more complicated than consumers in the recipient countries will accept.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e536	I had not thought I would experience in Stortinget that the Minister of Fisheries – the former representative of the Northern Ireland bench and the colleague of Enoxsen in the previous period – and Enoxsen would have such a totally different perception of the reality that could occur depending on whether or not to enter into the agreement. I feel reasonably sure that the coastal population in both the north and the south will thank Angelsen for the heroic struggle he has waged, perhaps not least in his own party. When the chairman of the nutrition committee manages to cough up Norway's Fish Pigs teams as the only ones who have gone against this agreement in the fishing environment, I say: Poor ones when «the cold» comes home from fishing! And Holte says, "Doesn't right counter-conceptions?" Opposites? This is an agreement for which a no-government almost on death and life goes in for, and even central party councils go in for, and then ask one if Right has counter performances! It is described in the proposition in an excellent way, and I must say it is strange that the chairman of the nutrition committee almost does not attach any importance to the fact that EU fishermen, EU breeders, will be able to do with the law what they have done in the past in civil disobedience, namely to open Norwegian fishing trailers. Is there anyone who doubts that they will use all the means at their disposal to ensure that the European Monitoring Centres will use all the funds available if we do not enter into the agreement? There can be no doubt about that. No, Angelsen has made an amazing effort short and well, and he needs praise for it. In relation to the excellent article that he sent land and beach around this, I would ask Enoxen: what is it that Enoch has seen that Angelsen has not seen, or that he might not see? And what does Angelsen's article describe the effects, in which Enoxen disagrees?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e545	The woman’s vision expressed by the representative Gabrielsen when he wants to take little account of what the Norwegian Fisheries Association stands for will be on his own account. I assume that once the Norwegian Fish Association has taken this position, it has dealt with it in several contexts, including: At its annual meeting, and having taken the position you have, it is based on an overall assessment that you will definitely not be involved in harming the industry you yourself represent, which you depend on. You live in coastal communities, you live on the income that the fishing industry brings, and I refuse to believe that Norway's Fish farms would take a position that would damage the industry they themselves depend on to live on. Therefore, I believe that the opinion of the Norwegian Fisharkvinnelag in this context is important. I have said in my post that we have made our decisions based on an overall assessment. I'm on it. I see that if only the fishing industry is taken into account, of course a simpler border crossing would be preferable, but it is an overall assessment that has been taken into account. I do not deny that border controls will complicate the conditions of the fishing industry. It would be stupid to do that, and no one has said it either. But what I'm saying is that it'll definitely be to live with. It remains to be seen how complicated it will be in practice. It remains to be seen whether consumers in EU countries will accept that trailers will be at the border check when it is known that there will gradually be a chilling shortage of the valuable resource of Norwegian fish. So I'm convinced that this can be made different assessments of – there can be different assessments of how complicated it will be for the fishing industry, and when an overall assessment is taken into account, we have concluded that this in total will not be acceptable. Finally, it should not be unknown to the representative Gabrielsen that often in this room – and it amazes me that he has not previously registered it – there have been different views of government councils and depositors from the same party in previous cases. I would like to remind you that we had an organization in the Workers' Party until the fall of 1994, called the SME, which was incredibly active, and which had a diametrically opposite view of its government.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e559	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e563	This debate has become a sort of strange anti-climate debate that has taken place outside these walls and in the government offices, obviously with a great deal of intensity, while here the air has somehow gone out of the balloon completely. I don't know if I can contribute any new arguments that no one has heard before, but I want to bring up some of the most important. First to fish: as an opponent of Norwegian EU membership, I must address the enemy image created by the EU in this matter. It is not that the EU is ready with long teeth and thinks: here it is to stop Norwegian fish at the border, and we shall do so quickly and efficiently, keep them away! In addition, they prefer a little bit half-rotten fish in the EU! It is not that the EU imports fish from Norway to be nice, to be good, and would prefer poor quality. On the contrary, we have a fishing resource that we export because it is attractive, and then we believe that even if we did not accept the veterinary agreement and its extension, the EU would behave with some flexibility to get the best fish products from Norway. That was the defence of the European Union. I have just not heard a single argument in terms of control over food, a single argument on the food and animal side, which in isolation says that this is a good solution and gives us better opportunities than the regime we have today. The optimal regime we could have is both – these are the measures proposed by the Government to replace the border control, along with border control. It's the optimal and most effective control regime we could have, in a situation where we know that there's going to be increased trade in food and fresh goods, and where the control aspect is especially important because we've been so lucky to have much less of these diseases than other countries. And it's not just luck. It is also because we have a different structure in Norwegian agriculture than other countries have, and we have controlled. But we from SV won't say that today's control regime is very good. It's not. It should be much better. But we think the optimal control regime would be both. What we are doing now is giving away the ability we ourselves have to take the measures we want and believe that there is a need when there is a situation of infection. Now we are assessing what kind of measures we should be allowed to introduce into the EU system. We can see from the SV's side that this is a matter for reflection. Because with a significant yes-majority in the main hall, with a referendum result where the majority said no, and with a very large environmental exposure in the case of food, what is happening here in the hall today is happening without the power of the people who are concerned with these questions being taken into consideration, and probably in violation of what the populace wants with regard to the control regime for food. It's a dilemma that we'll come up with in many contexts. SV believes that it is the responsibility of the yes parties as much as of the no-parties to ensure that what the Storting does about EU adaptations is consistent with and in compliance with the results of the referendum. That's why we have a proposal in the setting that we're now on our own, but I think maybe can mature in more parties eventually. It is important that, in the essential and important matters we get in the future, which concern EU-related issues, we should discuss whether Norway should not hold referendums, after – let us say – the Danish model, according to the model of the EU member Denmark, to ensure: 1. to maintain the EU debate2. that there is consistency between the EU adaptations being made and the people rejected in their 1994 negative position; Then I'll get one more thing, and that's to take up the glittering proposal that SV has promoted in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e585	Kristin Halvorsen has taken up the suggestion she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e590	I understand that if you are opposed to the EEA Agreement, it is difficult to follow an extension of the same agreement. So I understand that Halvorsen here has a problem. However, with regard to the EU being so particularly bad, and that they are in the pit to catch us if we do not enter into this agreement, it is therefore the case that the third country provision in respect of imports from third countries is a system that has existed for almost two years. I have no faith that it will provide Norway with systematic import benefits if we now stand as a third country. This is also how far I can understand that SV cannot be so dramatic about this agreement. If there's not enough of a comment that has come in here during a foreign stay, it says here, and I quote from SV's comments: ‘If an adequate control system is built up and the legislation is strictly practised, this may provide protection to consumers which is not significantly weaker than today’.» So it's probably not that SV is so systematic against what's happening. It is clear that you could build a lot more control, you could build walls around the border, etc. But there's a limit to what you're able to do in society today. If I understood the representative Halvorsen correctly, she said that we are now giving us the opportunity to intervene in a relevant and adequate manner when it is needed. Then I have to ask: does Halvorsen mean that we do not have the opportunity to apply national measures when we believe that this is necessary? Is it true that we cannot consider using the safeguard clauses on a national basis?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e604	If I have expressed myself so bombastically, that is not true, because, in my best opinion, the rapporteur gave a fair deal and a sober explanation of what is actually in the agreement. However, we must show evidence that we have a better picture of the disease in Norway if extra measures are to be taken against, for example. Salmonella, and partly because the measures we put in place are not anti-commercial. That's the starting point. And it's clear that then we give ourselves an opportunity, on our own, to put in place exactly the measures that should suit us, right when we want, without explaining them to anyone. That's what we're adding to it. So, relative to fish. I think it's a point to stress that we actually export fish to people who are interested in buying it. When you run one argument to adopt a new regime with regard to the possibility of control of food, and that's fish, you should at least be documenting what kind of disadvantage it would be, instead of just hanging around with claims about this. You haven't actually done that, not by the government, and it might be beyond what you can expect a case rapporteur to do on his own, but you haven't done that. I think that is a minimum requirement when you make such drastic changes. So it's true as the SV notes, and as Kjell Engretsen says, today's control regime is not good enough. Not enough resources are invested in Norway per year. Today, despite the fact that we have border control, to check the actual imports. In a situation of increasing imports, we both need to rust up control here and now, and we need better control in the future. It is a precautionary principle that clearly underlies SV's opposition to this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e613	I am basically quite disappointed with SV's position in this debate, and I do not think that the representative Kristin Halvorsen made any attempt to bring the debate up to some sort of climax. One goes in with open eyes and wants to send Norwegian fishing industries into a market to test whether the EU is serious. The representative says that others from this pulpit are making claims, and points out that the EU hardly has any so-called ugly teeth that should give cause for concern. This debate is about the 15 trailer loads of fish sent out per year. hour, versus one trailer load per person. months. If the representative Halvorsen has not read the SV's own comments in the case myself, I can quote from a section where it says: ‘This member will not dispute that it may cause problems for the fishing industry if Norway does not accept the veterinary agreement but does not find it possible to place decisive emphasis on these disadvantages...’ That's probably what SV's real point of view is, and then I think you should stay too good to fool the debate that you're trying to do here today. But is it this way with SV, as it seems to be with the Progress Party, that what you say from here, and what you write in the setting, is partly due to frequent stays abroad? I think you should still pay attention to travelling abroad, but I think it's important to acquire the knowledge you get abroad, when you're there to learn.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e630	If this was an invitation to the representative Halvorsen to take a trip abroad, I thank you for the invitation. I would have liked to have followed it, but it is not possible to do it right now. What is stated in the SV's comment, I am fully in favour. Clearly, it is obvious that there may be greater problems for the fishing industry if Norway is to be treated as a third country. However, it is not that those who have filed this as the only argument for approving an extension of the EEA Agreement to the veterinary field, in any way document the extent of the difficulties that would have arisen. We think it's too bad a argument to change the control system for food. This was at the hearings, up and down. There was no one there who could document the kind of problems that might arise. On questions about who was ready to take over Norway’s export share, reference was made to other third countries, which may have the same problems with exports to the EU as Norway wants. Especially because that's the only argument that is made with great weight today, I think those who agree to recommend this agreement should feel a certain responsibility to predict what kind of problem it might be. But we believe that there is one argument for the agreement, and that that argument is called fish, but there are many arguments against it, and it is about consumer protection.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e639	No one else has asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e642	The starting point for the Left's consideration and position on the issue we are dealing with today is that in June 1997 the Left expressed the view that future trade in food and animals should be based on maintaining border controls. Despite the position of the Left and some other parties, the negotiations were carried out and, in the context of the Declaration of the Adults, the Government accepted that the veterinary agreement should be implemented subject to an attempt to negotiate which would give a better agreement. Now we have not succeeded in the renegotiations, but what we must be able to assume on the basis of the proposition is that the Government has done an excellent job in following up the possibilities of implementing control measures on a national basis and in following up the control chain that can also be applied to EU countries. This means that the Government has done a good job in ensuring that the change in the control regime that you will receive is done on the best possible basis. As far as the situation in Norway is concerned, the starting point is that we have had a good food safety measured in an international context, and we have had a good animal health record. This is an invaluable situation, and something that we have a duty to do our best to maintain. It is my opinion that no one will be able to guarantee that no matter what regime you have, you will be able to maintain the situation with a good food situation and good animal health. But based on what we know today, the Left's view is that the new regime provides the same security as the old one in terms of maintaining food safety and animal health. In other words, Norway currently has good safety in this area, and from what we can assess today, we will have as good security as today after 1 January 1999. In this context, I refer to the chain of action outlined by the Government in the proposal, which was further underlined during the hearings. What is important, then, is that we have to follow up the systems set out in the proposal in a good way, that we have to ensure that they are implemented and enforced, and that we also use the possibilities that the legislation provides to ensure proper control in the future. I am convinced, for my part, that the sitting government will follow this up in a good and excellent way. One of the points that is sometimes highlighted is that when one has a random check — and a good part of the official control in relation to this system will be based on random checks — there is a high risk that many goods will pass through. First of all, it is so that the border control is actually based on a random check today. Not all products are controlled. That's the one. The second thing I want to highlight in particular is that, as far as I can understand, sampling has the task of checking that the other control systems in place are working properly. In other words, the primary purpose of the random check is to ensure that the control chain in the system really works. If these samples reveal that this control chain is not working, they have the possibility of taking action in relation to it, including preventing food from entering the market. Another important aspect is the labelling of food and animals. I would very clearly encourage the Government to continue working on the question of the labelling of food with the country of origin etc. Against this background, the Left considers it important to focus on the significant problems that Norwegian fishing industry would have if the agreement were not adopted, and therefore the Left will vote in favour of the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e661	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e664	I have understood through the debate on this matter which has preceded the debate here in the Chamber that there are two sides to this agreement on which people are basing themselves. One is an assessment of the actual material content of the contract. Is the system gonna be okay? Is this agreement enough to control it? The second is that, as a starting point, you are opposed to Norwegian membership of the European Union, and I understand that in a way that is also synonymous with the fact that you are also opposed to this agreement because you feel that this brings us even closer to the European Union. I understand that it is the two types of basic arguments that lie there. For my part, I find it hard to understand the last argument. Now I know that the representative Hove himself was an EU opponent in 1994 – I don't know if he is still, I see in the newspapers that there is still a lack in those ranks – and I have to ask Hove, if he would be kind to answer it: Is it difficult to combine a positive attitude towards this agreement with a no-view of Norwegian membership of the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e671	Now, well, this is about having voted no to Norwegian membership of the EU, which both I and the replicator share, so that was a position we had in common at least. I have not intended to report to any of those who may have changed their position on this issue, so I do not have any dissatisfaction with the issue of EU membership. Now, for the sake of order, I'm a little bit unsure of how many fakes it really is. I think that a few of the people who have been declared to be non-falsified already in 1994 expressed views that made it possible to have some doubts about the extent to which they were EU opponents. It gets to be that side of the case. On the issue of the relationship between the veterinary agreement and raising other questions against the EU, and having a stand against Norwegian EU membership itself, I do not think there is any connection. When I voted no to Norwegian membership of the EU, it was linked to a set of reasons where the main element was related to the relationship with the EU itself, the EU institutions and the organisation. It must be clear that we cannot exclude the fact that the EU is a significant neighbour of Norway and, in the context of trade, a significant trading partner. There was an important reason why the Left – and that also applies to my own part – was a member of the EEA Agreement. With regard to the very issue that we are dealing with today, it is not natural for a part of the dividing line to go equally between those who were in favour of and against the EEA Agreement, as with those who were in favour of and against Norwegian EU membership.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e681	Now I don't know if this setting is going to be some best seller for Christmas and will be found under the many Christmas trees. But if it were to be like this, I think those who read what the left had to think about this important question in the space of Christmas are going to be pretty confused. There is almost no one who has written so little and so much unclear about this question. It's actually just the Progress Party that can compete with the Left here. What it says is – to say the least – relatively half-long. What you're doing is referring to previous debates in Stortinget. You don't write a single word about fish, which this case is actually about, and that's why we have this debate today in Stortinget. In the Foreign Affairs Committee, the Left refers to previous debates and writes comments together with the Christian People's Party. In the Business Committee, the Left refers to the position of the Centre in the Foreign Affairs Committee. I don't know if this has anything to do with the new form of liberalism that Fridtjof Frank Gundersen has shown today, that not going out and taking his stand, is one of life's greatest human rights. If that's the case, we've had a class of views today. My impression is that it was better with the Left in earlier times. I am thinking especially of the previous period. Then there was only one person who wrote comments. I think that those who are concerned about this industry's woe and well, Norway's second largest export industry, the many along the coast who are concerned about what the Stortinge is doing, and what the individual parties stand for in this matter, will finally ask the question: What does the Left mean? Isn't it a dilemma for the Left that you can be so vague in such an important matter for the Norwegian people?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e690	On one point, I think I agree without delay with the replicator, namely that the document we are dealing with here is hardly going to be a bestseller and hardly going to be under the many Christmas trees. But with regard to the question of the clarity of the Left's comments in the committee's position in relation to other parties, I would like to draw the attention of the representative Kristiansen to the fact that the Left's comments are part of the majority comments. So if the Left's comments are unclear, the Right's comments are unclear, and then the Workers' Party's comments are unclear. I therefore find it a little difficult to see why the comments of the Left should be more unclear than the comments of the representative Kristiansen. Secondly, can you really believe that this matter is only about fish? What is at issue in this matter is primarily consumer issues, and there are questions of food safety and animal health. Therefore, in my article I used the scheme and the systematics that I explained to our assessment of those questions. It was only when, in the light of an assessment of the questions, that we found this appropriate that we included, as an important element, the consideration of Norwegian fish exports. It is clear that Norwegian fish exports are important, not least in relation to this agreement, but I honestly believe that it is important only after it has been established and established that there is a proper level of security in relation to the import of food products. Finally, like the replicator, I think it was interesting to get a certain introduction to what happened at the Group meeting of the Progress Party and how that party dealt with the matter. Like the Progress Party, the Left also has a tradition that the representatives are in principle free. It is correct for one of the representatives of the Left to vote against the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e701	The setting probably doesn't become a bestseller, but I think it's going to be a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a Then it may be that what may seem tedious and tame here today gets a different angle when the problems may start reporting. I thought that also left was busy. I feel like a fishing trip, too often when I'm on a fishing trip, I go home empty-handed. So do I today. For this fish argument, which also hangs on the left and clings to as an argument for being in favour of this agreement, I am not given proof. And when the starting point for this whole agreement is just fish, it's amazing that no one, neither Left, can document this. I therefore have to ask the representative Hove the following questions: What are the specific problems that we will face if we say no? And what will they be like in relation to the EEA Agreement and to the WTO Agreement? Is it not true that one should not discriminate? Is it not what these agreements are? And is it not therefore unnecessary to adopt this agreement today?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e710	Like the representative of Langeland, I am convinced that the Norwegian people, not only the majority, but almost everyone, are concerned with food security, and very many are also concerned with animal health. What becomes more technical is the way in which this can be done in a proper and satisfactory way. It is therefore of the opinion of the Left that this is properly and satisfactorily ensured by the arrangements set out by the Government in respect of the follow-up to the control options provided by the contract. This is an important basis for the second issue, namely that of fish. I have, at least for a while, the same experience as the representative of Langeland in terms of the yield of fishing trips. I understand that the representative of Langeland feels that he has been on a fishing trip here today, in an attempt to get caught or caught fish on the question of what problems fishing exports will actually face, and a question about documentation of these. It is my opinion that this has been explained on the one hand through the hearings of opinions, not least from the industry itself, and also from the Minister for Fisheries, on the other hand, in the comments of the majority in the vote. I'm referring to it like this in the first place. But then, when it comes to the question of documentation, it's just the problem that we're dealing with the future here. The point is that we have not had these problems until today. The question is, what will happen in the future if we do not agree? And then I see that there is a significant risk of some significant problems in relation to border crossing. And finally, in relation to the WTO Agreement and the EEA Agreement, the very point is that Norway will in practice change its status if we do not adopt this agreement, from being perceived as having accepted the agreement to become a third country. And then we have to assess in relation to other third countries.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e721	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e724	Those opposed to the new veterinary Annex to the EEA Agreement have claimed that there are no good arguments as to why the amendments to Annex I are so important to Norway. I would argue that for Norwegian fish exports, the agreement is very important. The agreement is not important just because of fish, but for the fishing industry it is equally very important. Fish are Norway’s largest export industry for oil. The figures for 1997 show that Norway exported 957,000 tonnes of fish to the EU at a value of DKK 14.5 billion. So far, Norway has had agreements with the EU that have satisfactorily safeguarded our interests in border crossings. However, it is a fact that from 1 January 1997 the EU has harmonised its border control legislation. As a result, if Norway rejects the amendments to Annex I to the EEA Agreement, we will be considered a third country vis-à-vis the EU. In this case, the control frequency and scope of control of fish from Norway to the EU will be significantly increased. As a result of a special EU regime, Norway has until now released this adjusted frequency of controls pending Norwegian approval of Annex I to the amended EEA Agreement. Despite this special scheme, however, Norwegian fishing industry has experienced problems with the new control measures at some border crossings. This has already hit the Nordic fishing industry in border crossings, especially in the northern part of Finland. But we don't just get an extension of the control frequency, we also get an extension of the control range. As Per Mjelva of the Land Association of Fisheries and Aquaculture said in the open hearings: ‘It’s not just the frequency, it’s also the volume. In the document check we have an identity check, but we get a physical check." The concept of ‘physical control’ is clarified by a separate EU Directive. In the case of physical checks, the temperature, weight, packaging and marking shall always be checked. In addition, a certain number of packages must be sampled from different places in the consignment. The samples must be examined for odour, colour, consistency, taste, etc. and by thawing and boiling. Samples shall also be sent for laboratory testing. In addition, a number of measures can be taken. In addition to the time allocated to the border control itself, there will also be more time to cross the border at the right place, i.e. at the new border inspection posts. These don't always have to be along the best driving route. It has been particularly important for the fishing industry to highlight the risks posed by this new border control in terms of lost time. Deliveries of fresh fishery products are highly dependent on being made in accordance with agreed time to the different customers on the market. Of course, it is difficult, not to say impossible, to say exactly how much impact all this will have on Norwegian fish exports. It is difficult to say exactly how often there will be delays. However, it is clear that the whole Norwegian fishing industry is unique in its recommendation: Norway must accept the amendments to Annex I to the EEA Agreement. A no will have significant negative effects. I think that the one who has summed this up in the best way is the Minister for Fisheries, when he said the following at the open hearings – I know this is mentioned earlier in the debate, but a good thing cannot be said too often, and I therefore quote again: ‘I would like to clarify that it is the potential of the new border control for delays that are significant. At my discretion, this is indisputable. So I find it hard to understand that someone stubbornly denies such a reality. The fact that other considerations are given greater weight after a well-thought-out, I respect, but not that the fishing arguments are swept under the carpet as non-existent.’ Better can't be said!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e775	I think I have to take part in the debate on the extended veterinary agreement. It is a question that I have asked myself many times: who has asked for the extended veterinary agreement? Why did it get on the map? I remember when it started. There were problems with border control in Kiruna when the tracks were going over with salmon. As I know it became a system, there should be another way to do it. And it's worked so far. Checks are currently carried out on 50 pst. of what at least goes over Svinesund, according to what I have been informed. Of course you can ask the question, Is it going to be bad, or isn't it going to be bad? Is it going to be a problem if we do not accept this extended agreement here today? It is a mistake when it is claimed that the fishing industry is clearly in favour of this agreement. That's not right. But it is clear that those who do large-scale fresh fishing are very concerned about it, but those who export salt fish, dry fish and frozen fish are not very concerned about this. So the industry doesn't go into this expansion unambiguously. I think it has been done too little to clarify what kind of rights we have under the EEA Agreement, both with regard to Article 11 and Protocol 10. Article 11 reads: ‘Where a Contracting Party intends to introduce a new control or formality, it shall inform the other Contracting Parties accordingly. The Contracting Party concerned shall ensure that measures taken to simplify border crossings are not rendered ineffective by the application of such new controls or formalities.’;» Furthermore, we have both the GATT Agreement and the WTO Agreement to deal with. I asked questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs just a few days ago, which I received yesterday's answer. My question was whether the arrangements we have today are a transitional arrangement that is about to be phased out, because we have free trade in fish for the EFTA countries. The EFTA countries Denmark and Sweden are now a well-known member of the EU. And the 1947 GATT Agreement under Article 5a states: ‘In the case of a customs union..., the customs duties and other trade regulations imposed upon it by the establishment of such a customs union... shall in general not be higher or more burdensome for trade with Contracting Parties which are not parties to such a Union... than they were on average in the participating territories before... the establishment of the customs union...’;» These included: what I pointed out to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. And then I get the answer that before GATT and the WTO there is no general free trade for fish. Therefore, individual Member States ‘have — to varying degrees — maintained customs protection of their respective markets against imports of fish and fishery products. By comparison, there is today free trade and thus free trade in fish within EFTA». Today we have free trade in fish in EFTA countries. That's what the Foreign Minister said in his reply to me, which I got yesterday. And then the answer goes on: ‘All countries have the right to define their own veterinary security needs, provided that the measures do not discriminate between third countries and are not more barrier to trade than is necessary to ensure the level of protection sought. This principle is enshrined in the WTO Agreement on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Conditions [[SPS Agreement]] After all, we are in agreement with both the WTO and GATT, and then the European Union is. And an agreement doesn't just apply to one party? Is this investigated enough? Is this prepared enough? Has the Storting got the information it needs to make a decision? I don't think so. So a little bit about food safety: Belgian blue is not likely to enter Norway. But Polet could not do anything about it either. The Pole is in the process of falling during the EU debate. As for this with safe food, I'm going to tell a little story: Otto von Bismarck, who was a sensible man, came into dispute with his doctor, and ordered a duel. The doctor said, "We go into a room, we take two pieces of bottled meat -- close to the eyes -- one bottled piece is full of Trichinella." There was no duel. So finally, it does not appear in the Constitution: the Great Thing exercises legislative power on behalf of the people. But it says in § 49: ‘The people exercise legislative power at Storthinget...’ We're going to do what the people want. We're not the ones who have to control people.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e815	I don't want to go into Bastisen's different comments on my answer right now. He has received an answer to the question, so he may get back to it in a reply. I want to start with St.prp. No 6 for 1998-99, in which the Government asked for agreement to the so-called veterinary agreement, and in this context I will deal with two matters, which I, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, would like to draw up in particular. One is the negotiation process and the reasons and choices the government has faced. And the second is the relationship between the negotiating result and the necessary national measures. Annex I to the EEA Agreement, as it entered into force on 1 January 1994, covered a large number of EU veterinary legislation. However, the regulated one is not a veterinary border check. The agreement refers to the review by the contracting parties during 1995 of the areas where EU rules do not apply. This review was carried out in discussions between the EFTA/EEA and the EU side during the period 1995-96. Thus, it was an agreed commitment that was the basis for the discussions and subsequent negotiations on the remaining parts of EU veterinary legislation. In the negotiations, Norway was interested in limiting the revision of Annex I to fish and fish products only, thereby limiting or eliminating veterinary checks only for these types of products. This was not possible. An important aspect of the urgency of the negotiations was the EU's decision to harmonise physical checks at border crossing into the EU from 1 January 1997. EU harmonisation increased control over third countries. The average control frequency was increased, as we've heard before, from 3-5 pst. for 20-50 pst. With the EU as the second largest market for Norwegian fish, stepping up border controls would create problems for the fishing industry. The negotiations ended in December 1996. The current Minister for Agriculture presented the draft agreement in the United Kingdom in January 1997. Proposals from current government parties to request the Government to continue existing veterinary checks in international trade in live animals and animal products were not accepted. In the treatment of St.prp. No 70 for 1996-97 on the Agreement on Agriculture asked the majority to see the Ministry of Agriculture continue to work on an extension of the EEA Agreement, Annex I. So this was the status when the Bondevik government took over in October 1997. Since then there have been only technical adjustments to the draft contract. In the light of the Declaration of Adults, the Government took the initiative towards the EU for possible negotiations following prior consultations with the bodies of the Storting. I myself raised the question with EEA Commissioner Hans van den Broek in Brussels in November 1997. The EU did not agree to reopen negotiations on parts of the negotiated solution. Therefore, insisting on renegotiation would be the same as rejecting the present draft agreement. This could be unfortunate to the EU and so doubt Norway’s willingness to comply with the obligations of the EEA Agreement. The impact on the fishing industry would be very unfortunate. The Government therefore decided to accept the draft agreement as it existed and consulted the bodies of the Storting on that position. When this decision was taken by the Government, it was not because the parties had changed their views on the draft agreement itself, but on the basis of the expressed support of the majority of the population for the agreement and the Government’s own willingness to assess further national control measures if this was considered necessary. As indicated in the proposal, the Government’s recommendation is based on the fact that the EEA Decision itself has to be assessed together with the national measures proposed. The government's preconditions for recommending the consent of the Storting to the decision of the EEA Committee of July 1998 include a comprehensive approach based on the following elements: Adequate resources are allocated to the effective implementation of the necessary national control measures. The safeguard clause shall be applied actively if public and animal health is endangered. National control measures are evaluated on an ongoing basis. By the end of 2001, the Government will present to the European Council an overall assessment of the new legislation and the infectiveness situation, together with proposals for changes that may be necessary. As stated in the proposition, the Government’s assessment is that the whole of this scheme will contribute to ensuring good Norwegian public and animal health. It has been – and is – the basic objective of the Government in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e858	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e861	Minister for Foreign Affairs Vollebæk is responsible for St. prp. No 6, where the Government recommends amending Annex I to the EEA Agreement as well as comprehensive control measures for animal and public health – in many ways improving existing measures and in line with proposals also proposed by the Jagland Government. Foreign Minister Vollebæk's party trap, Steensnæs, showed in his speech earlier today that the government was now coming to the Stortinget with St.prp. No 6th@item: The same claim came in a slightly crazier version two days ago from the same pulpit, from the representative Unn Aarrestad of the Senterpartiet. But that is what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has just explained, that after the decision to raise the issue to several places, the Government tried to renegotiate the agreement and found that Norwegian interests were put at risk by renegotiations, and it therefore returned to the Storting to the appropriate bodies and explained this. The Minister of Agriculture, Mr Gjønnes, said to the Nations on 5 November 1997 that he did not wish to ‘do anything that could jeopardise market access for Norwegian fish to the EU’ in this case. And in the post now, Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk said it would be unfortunate for the EU to doubt the obligations of the EEA Agreement if a agreed agreement was rejected. These are quite eye-catching statements, which I should have liked to have been further justified, because it illustrates with all possible clarity that the Government recommends this agreement and comes to Stortinget with St. prp. No 6 on an independent basis and take responsibility for it, including: from the Norwegian interests related to the EEA Agreement and to fish exports.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e874	If the representative, Marit Nybakk, thinks I'm coming up with some thought-provoking statements in my post today, it's relatively eye-catching, because I haven't said anything other than what I've said before, among other things. in the meeting of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee – where the representative Nybakk is a prominent and very active member – last November, and later in different contexts. I have also not said that we tried to renegotiate the agreement. It was one of the things we were concerned about, that we were going to explore the possibilities precisely because there was no doubt about our overall position on the EEA Agreement. But the representative Nybakk will also be familiar with, as stated in St.prp. No 6, that the government Bondevik took over in a situation where the Stortinget had made a clear decision, so that we had to deal partially with decisions that the Stortinget had made, and we also had to deal with what we knew was the bulk of the population. And what we did, as I've explained, was that we were looking at the possibilities, trying to look at parts of the agreement, because we wanted to assess whether it was possible to change it for an improvement. It didn't turn out to be possible. What we did then, and I briefed the bodies of the Storting, was that the Minister of Agriculture and I went in together to look at a totality in this. Here, national measures were to be added. This overall package is what the Government has presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e882	In 1992, Stortinget concluded an assessment of the Norwegian border control which said that it was ‘critical for the maintenance of our favourable animal health’. In 1997, the main speaker of the Christian People's Party said about the impending workers' party government: ‘It is, in my opinion, an allusion to history when the Government now enters in order to remove veterinary border controls against EU countries.’ And the Christian People's Party, together with SV, supports a proposal from the Center Party to suspend the negotiations on the veterinary agreement. Today, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Christian People's Party recommends the same agreement as they said it was historyless to support. This is going to be big conversions in a short time. There must even be a powerful diet for the Christian People's Party when such great things happen in two years. I'm wondering what this is expression for. In any case, I am sure that it will increase political disdain when one can set himself as lewdly as the Christian People's Party does. So, in relation to Denmark, the Christian People's Party has simply tried to do something about the veterinary system in the EU, but they can't do anything. When they had a major outbreak of the antibiotic-resistant salmonella variant DT 104, the Christian People's Party raised the question whether they could do anything to stop food imports and thus do something about that problem. But then the answer from the Minister of Agriculture was that they could not have a special Danish control at the border – cork with swine fever or with DT 104. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that it is gratifying to introduce a system that the Christian People's Party in Denmark really wants to abolish because they want national control?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e900	With regard to the statements of the Danish Christian People's Party, I must honestly admit that I do not know them, so I may have to allow them to study more closely. When it comes to the issue of conversion, the Stortinget will have Christmas in a little while, and then there will probably be a better opportunity for the representative of Langeland and me to discuss what we mean and understand by conversion. At least my understanding is not that the Christian People's Party has changed its view in any way that might be called a reversal in this matter. I tried to explain that in my post, and the representative Steensnæs has also explained that. What's important, and I've been trying to say, is we're looking at what we're now putting forward as a whole package. We put forward a veterinary agreement that I explained, we evaluated and explored the possibilities of renegotiation when we took over the government power, but that did not prove possible. Then we discussed what we can do to compensate for the shortcomings we believe the agreement contains, both within the Government and with the agencies of Storting. This compensation has been found through national measures, in addition to the other control mechanisms that lie there through evaluation and through the safeguard clause, and it is this overall package presented by the Government to the Government in the staging proposition we are discussing today, as recommended by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e909	As indicated in the proposal, the Government has based four assumptions on its recommendation of this agreement. I want to return to one of these prerequisites, which I was also concerned about during the hearings, where I don't think I got any particularly good response from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This is the case with the use of the safeguard clause. One of the prerequisites is that ‘the safeguard clause shall be applied actively in the event of risk to public or animal health’. What I'm asking is, does it mean a line shift in relation to the way the safeguard clause has been applied until today? We were informed during the hearing that the safeguard clause had been used three times. When the Government now states that ‘the safeguard clause is to be used actively’ as a clear precondition for its recommendation, does it change politically from the way it is used today? At the same time, I wonder what the burden of proof will be on Norway when we consider using the safeguard clause, and to what extent we can risk countermeasures on the part of the European Union if it is considered that Norway's reasons for using the safeguard clause may not be good enough. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to explain this a little more concretely, and it is completely unnecessary to go about everything that needs to be done with routines, warning systems, etc. – If we didn’t know it before, it also appeared from the hearings, what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e918	I'm not sure I can satisfy the representative Frost Sterri completely, if she was so dissatisfied with what I said in the hearing. I am also not sure whether we can avoid saying anything about routines, because if we are now to use this safeguard clause actively, we must have certain procedures. The safeguard clause, as represented by Frost Sterri, is a national provision that we can use in serious situations. It's true, as she says, that we've used it three times: in foot-and-mouth disease in Greece, in what's called Newcastle disease in Sweden and in the enslavement of England. It was such a serious situation that no one thought of countermeasures by anyone for the measures we took on these occasions, nor has there been any problem with the burden of proof. What I think is important, not least in this matter, is that the government, through what you have presented, shows that you will follow closely. That is what we have said about evaluation. This means that in this process we will also be able to use the safeguard clause if we believe that animal and public health is at risk. So this is a clause that is there, which is recognised and which is not something special for us, but which, in the government's opinion, provides an additional guarantee that the entire package we are presenting is good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e925	I have to be allowed to follow up a bit of what Nybakk's representative took up instead, because the arguments that the government is so far forced by the bulk of the population to make an agreement are a little confusing. The Declaration of Adults states that an attempt will be made to renegotiate the agreement. The Consulting in Stortinget I don't think imposed anything special on the government. The store was briefed and wanted the government to be happy with the negotiations. For its part, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been very clear and has, of course, made it clear that the agreement is something that the Government wants and that the Government recommends. Otherwise, as he said in the open hearing, it would simply not be presented to the Stortinget. On the radio today, in Political Quarter, Secretary of State Haga of the Minister’s own department said that this agreement could be in addition, but that the bulk of the population wanted it. I ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to explain, as clearly as he usually does, the actual position of the Government. In addition, if the Minister has time to respond to it, after the attempts to renegotiate the proposal proved unsuccessful, they created some compensation schemes, designed national measures. What national measures, in addition to the zoonoses unit, has this government brought forward in addition to what the previous government had made clear?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e934	With regard to the last question from the representative, I would suggest that he perhaps put it to the Minister of Agriculture, who is responsible for the national measures, and who can more naturally go in and explain to them in a more accurate way than I think I can. With regard to Secretary of State Haga's statements on the radio today, I must admit that they did not hear me. I was concerned with other foreign policy issues. But I'm pretty sure Secretary of State Haga agrees with my view, she tends to be, and we've had a dialogue with other representatives here in the Chamber earlier and found out that there's a great deal of consensus in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As I get it presented, there's nothing special that she's said. If that's what the representative said, she has stated that you were not entirely satisfied with the agreement when you took over the government power. It is true, as the representative says, that we did not get any special instructions from the bodies of Storting – but the government took over in a situation where there was a clear majority for this. We tried, as I said, to look at the possibility of renegotiation. We didn't get that done. And then we made a whole package, which we've now presented to the Stortinget. And that's this whole package with which the government goes to the Stortinget, and which makes us, as I said in the hearing, of course recommend what we're proposing – otherwise we wouldn't stand here today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e941	State Secretary Haga gave this morning, among others: expression that this veterinary agreement is harmful to the country and that it has been submitted to the Stortinget and is now dealt with in the Stortinget solely because it is requested by the majority of the population. In view of the fact that it is becoming quite alarming – perhaps to be strongly involved – that the Minister of Foreign Affairs of this interlocutor today is so clear that Norwegian interests, both Norwegian fishing exports and consideration for the EEA Agreement, were and are essential for the Government to submit this agreement to the Stortinget for approval. Then I have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs: in view of the fact that the negotiations were to be resumed in this area during 1995, is it such that one could not start these negotiations? And how interesting is the decision about the size of that relationship?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e948	To start again with the end, it's interesting what the then government has put forward and got the support of the majority of the population, because it also has to be a new government. So this is interesting. We took note of it the way we started it. We weren't quite satisfied with that, wanted to look at the possibilities to do something about it, but didn't get it done. That is why we came up with national measures. I understand that this is politics. I also understand that there is a need to shoot at the Government – and I accept it. As I said, I did not hear State Secretary Haga on the radio today, but because you are in this room so real that you warn your political opponents about what you are going to say – and I appreciate it – I have been able to check out what she should have said. My understanding is not that she said this agreement was harmful to the country. There is a difference between saying that you are not satisfied with anything, and saying that something is harmful to the country. What I at least know is that Secretary of State Haga agrees with me is that the overall arrangement with which the Government is now going to the Stortinget is satisfactory, that is something we can put forward, and that I, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, am behind.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e955	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e958	Let me first underline that I have no need to blame the Government for my or the Workers' Party's position on this agreement. But it is essential to know to what extent the government is behind what has now been presented to the Storting, or whether it is said that there is something that has been put forward solely because of the bulk of the population. Otherwise I thought to say a little about food safety and consumer awareness. In Norway and other European countries, consumer awareness is increasing, with requirements for purity and quality in foodstuffs. It is important for us to ensure that the food we buy is based on a healthy, environmentally sound and ethically acceptable production, goods that do not harm our health. We want to eat what we want, without thinking about the risk of infection or disease. That's why we're concerned that we have a control system that ensures that samples are taken at all stages from ground to table. Good control is becoming particularly important at a time of increased international trade in food and animals, and with increased international travel activities. It is also important for the control regime for food. As we now extend the EEA Agreement to the veterinary field, enhanced controls have just been important to ensure in the process. That was our Minister of Agriculture's concern, and that has been the concern of the current government in its proposals. The Minister for Health said during the hearings, among others: the requirement to register importers and to alert the Food Safety Authority 24 hours before the arrival of the goods gives us the opportunity to continue to be equally strict – and I will add: if not more stringent – in relation to the control of food. It also gives time to check before the food reaches the store shelves, and I think the consumers are concerned about that. Of course, the laws and regulations that we have currently attached to food are not altered by the veterinary agreement, as the Minister of Health also stressed in the hearings. In other words, it will still be prohibited to sell goods that are considered to be a danger to human health. In the public debate, Norwegian veterinarians have raised doubts about the competence of their colleagues in EU countries – they have raised doubts about the competence of health professionals in Norway too, but I have to leave that to them. So we're talking about countries like Germany, France and Sweden, just to take some. It's some kind of self-righteousness that I think we're going to be careful with. I believe, and have also been informed, that veterinary checks in the EU are of a very high standard. In fact, equally important is the debate and processes taking place within the EU on food safety. The Commission presented in April 1997 a Green Paper on food policy, and the EU Summit in Luxembourg one year ago, the European Council, called for changes to Community legislation in this area based on public health and safety. The Commission also recently presented the main political priorities for 1999 and among the main issues are public health, veterinary control and food quality, consumer safety and rights. The Commission has recently adopted 35 programmes for the eradication of 14 animal diseases. It is also interesting in view of the fact that international travel activities and increased trade just lead to cross-border movements of animal products. As a result of today’s Annex I to the EEA Agreement, the Norwegian food industry has already undergone substantial investments to adapt, for example: EU hygiene requirements. Food produced in the EU is therefore subject to very strict hygiene and internal control rules, and it may be good for Norwegian consumers to know exactly that. There is a figure that has been mentioned before in this debate, but I will repeat it, and that is that official imports of meat from the EU into Norway amount to 700,000 tonnes, while what enters the country in carrier bags, as the representative of the UK said, is 130 000 tonnes. International cooperation on food, nutrition and health is therefore becoming increasingly important.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e981	Norwegian consumers, as well as consumers in other European countries, are very concerned that what is in the refrigerators and freezers is of high quality. Consumers shall know that the contents of the disk are subject to control systems which are optimal for keeping the goods to an absolute top quality. For this reason, it is important that we maintain strict requirements for food quality and international trade. This requires a very strict and effective control of animals and food production. The way I understand St.prp. No 6 for 1998-99, the Government has achieved three very important things: a reinforced control and follow-up of imports of live animals and animal products to prevent a more extensive veterinary border check on exports of Norwegian fish and fishery products to strengthen cooperation between the Norwegian veterinary authorities and the veterinary authorities in the other EEA region; Together with the negotiated agreement, more frequent and extensive national control and surveillance programmes are compensated for the loss of border control. In a number of areas, controls are even strengthened. The hearings that were carried out, I feel strengthened just such a statement. Our fish exports have encountered significant problems because the provisions on veterinary border controls were not included in the EEA Agreement. Although Norway undertook to comply with the same health and hygiene requirements, fish were stopped for control when entering EU markets. Norway exports fish at a value of DKK 15-16 billion to the EU area, i.e. approx. 60 pst. of all Norwegian fishing exports. In view of these problems, efforts were made by the then EFTA countries to find a solution to the border control issue in 1992-93. Since then, Sweden and Finland have joined the EU. In addition, EU countries have harmonised their provisions relating to animals and animal products within the EU and strengthened their border controls on imports from third countries. From an average control frequency in the case of exported fish lots of 3-5 pst. So it's going to be added up to a check of 20-50 pst. of the lots. However, in the light of the negotiations that have taken place between the EU and EFTA countries, the EU has used the same frequency as in the past for goods from Norway and Iceland. Should the Storting say no to this agreement today, grace is over and Norway will be treated as a third country. The impact on the fishing industry is becoming dramatic. At my discretion, what this debate is about is to ensure that we have a control system that ensures animal health and food imports at least as well as what we have today. As far as I can see from the proposition, it is proved to be absolutely satisfactory. Evidence has been requested in relation to the impact on the fishing industry. Let me say that just living with the risk that the EU would take on the basis of such a comprehensive detailed control of temperature, weight, packaging, even the basis for testing the batch of products by boiling, is something that it is clear that the fishing industry on death and life will try to avoid. When, on the one hand, we are faced with such a risk, and on the other hand, we are a control system that fully compensates for even more than the loss of border control, I cannot, with my best sense, see it differently than the reason that we should do this. And when, in addition, a no-regiering is based on parties that were previously opposed to this whole scheme, who have provided this, it does not exactly weaken the confidence in the result that exists. When there is a demonstration in Eidsvoll's place today, and there are no more demonstrators than there are journalists, it may show that the Center Party has reached the top in understanding what will happen to this country if we go into something like this. I think the key to the fishing industry is ‘uncertainty’. And when the government has documented in such an excellent way what control system we get instead, there's no reason why we're postponing Norwegian fish exports for the risk it's that Norwegian trailers can stay at the border for hours. I would like to repeat what I said in relation to the Enoxen's argument that this was an element in the Norwegian fishing industry – I heard that Bastisen also mentioned it in his statement – that these claims at least did not reach the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e1010	Most of the EU provisions in the veterinary field are covered by the current EEA Agreement. The new elements included in the current revision include: the control rules for cross-border trade including imports from third countries conditions for imports from third countries the labelling provisions for bovine animals, small ruminants and pigs the conditions for trade in live small ruminants, aquaculture animals and various other less central species; The control provisions for cross-border trade are likely to be those which have dealt most with the debate that has taken place prior to this deliberation. As everyone in this room is now aware, with this revision Norway will abolish the traditional veterinary border control for trade in the EEA territory. The veterinary border controls will be replaced by a network of measures to help ensure Norwegian public and animal welfare. The difference between the new and the old system can be described as going from a border check where all resources are deployed at one point to a check where the first measures are taken outside the manufacturer's abroad with evidence that the product satisfies the conditions, and further with a code of importer registers, acceptance checks, random checks, advance notifications, etc. to a retailer in Norway. Animal products and live animals coming from outside the EEA must, as before, pass a border inspection post where a traditional veterinary border inspection will continue to be carried out. Conditions for imports from third countries are also covered by this review. In the past, Norway has had a general ban on imports and has granted exemptions from the ban under certain conditions. As a result of the WTO agreement to which the Storting has acceded, a country can no longer prohibit imports without further delay. Furthermore, the volume of imported goods is largely determined by customs-based import protection. It can therefore be said that several elements of the current audit are not only the result of an EEA Agreement but also the result of the WTO Agreement. Following this revised agreement, Norway will have common legislation with the EU on procedures for the control of food of animal origin and live animals coming from outside the EEA territory. The requirements for the products to be imported, together with the new control regime, will, in sum, result in increased conditions compared to those applied at the time of entry today. Labelling provisions for cattle, small ruminants and pigs are included in the EEA Agreement. The labelling provisions will make it possible to follow the animal from birth until it reaches the slaughterhouse. The information generated by the labelling provisions can and should be used actively for the benefit of consumers. Animal welfare is also a subject that has been included in the debate on this revision and where the revision leads to changes in Norwegian legislation. The new legislation is based mainly on the recommendations adopted under the various Conventions of the Council of Europe to which Norway has already acceded. Most of the legislation contains minimum provisions, so that it is up to each country to have stricter national provisions. We can therefore largely continue the level we have established in the field of animal protection. Animal health conditions for trade in live fish have also been included in this current review. As a result of the conversion of the control regimes for the introduction of live animals and animal products, the supervisory authorities in Norway will face new major challenges. In view of this, the Government will propose a significant strengthening of the supervisory system. I would like to highlight in particular the proposal to set up a separate zoonoses unit. In my opinion, it is important that we now focus attention on implementing the reinforcement in an effective and targeted way. The State Animal Health Authority and the State Food Safety Authority are faced with major tasks in the implementation of national surveillance and control programmes for live animals, surveillance programmes for aliens and infectious agents in food, the implementation of internal control systems and labelling schemes for live animals. On the part of the authorities, we have to take responsibility for this demanding task. But we are and will always depend on active and constructive cooperation with all companies and organisations throughout the food chain from producer to consumer. I believe that Norwegian agriculture’s long-term interest depends on us now concentrating on cooperating on this in the future. Finally, I would like to refer to the opinions of the State Health Authority and the State Food Authority, as well as the evaluations announced by the Government. By doing so, I believe that public and animal health considerations should be safeguarded in a safe way, including through the new approach.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e1047	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e1050	The Minister of Agriculture had a good defence speech for this agreement we are about to adopt today. According to this, the representative Steensnæs's statement earlier today comes in a slightly strange light. Stone-cutting saw the following: ‘The reason for the negotiated agreement amending Annex I to the EEA Agreement – the veterinary agreement – which we are currently examining is the wish of the majority of the population for such a revision.’ Firstly, this is actually wrong because Annex I was supposed to renegotiate in any case, and secondly, it is because the government has brought the matter forward with a positive recommendation. And I must admit that I am becoming more and more amazed as this debate has gone on, first this quote from the representative Steensnæs and then the Foreign Minister's attempt to create the impression that this agreement is not wanted by the Government and the Government Party, it is the Storting that forces the Government to submit the agreement. Now the Government must decide: Is this an agreement Government and Christian People's Party stand behind, or not? I expect a clear answer from the Minister for Agriculture. If you don't get a clear answer, the government has to do this because they still want to sit in the government building.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e1060	This government has a strong desire to remain in the government building, I will not deny that. I would otherwise like to express perhaps a little wonder back to those who ask the most curious questions to the Government. Is it the case that those who made these decisions today reject the vote result that was in the Storting? And the one who also knows how a government works knows that it will of course have as the background for its work the decisions that the Storting has made. It's the way a government behaves, assuming, of course, that the result you're going to the Storting is such that the Government will stand behind it – it should just be missing. The government would not have advanced this case to Stortinget today if it had not supported the overall outcome of the agreement and the measures in place. In relation to the excellence of this agreement, I would like to say that the person who knows the rug a little, knows that in the round of negotiations, attempts were also made by the Workers' Party to find other solutions than what was finally agreed, in the way to what is now there. From my point of view, I consider the agreement that is now here, with the measures that are proportionate to control, in order to be good. And it is also my assessment that the agreement is so good in terms of public and animal health that one can give it the character that it is actually a better system than what was in the old system. But one could also have put bigger appropriations into the old system to increase control measures in general. To remove any doubt, the government is behind and recommends the agreement with the control measures contained in it – so it should be clear.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e1071	A small parentheses in the continuation of what the previous replicator was inside, and what the Gehönes said, that this government wanted to continue. It is good that someone has at least a government that wants to be where it is. I record that there are also others who want to be there. But what I could imagine asking for in that extension is: Is it for the Christian People's Party that if, at the time when they debated this in the Stortinge, no more than half a year and a half ago, it would have been possible to achieve what was achieved through the negotiations and what was made clear in the proposal for remedial measures, alternative measures, or what should one call it, would it in itself have been enough to have taken a different position at that time? So another question that goes on the control measures that are in place. The councils presented in a straightforward and detailed way what is now being put in place, and we all know that today's practice is not an ideal state. Now it is not easy for a government council, nor for anyone else, to convince other members of this assembly – and not at all the whole party – and to make them change their point of view when dealing with a case. There's a long way between each time that happens. But I could have imagined that the Council of State still assumed that he was going to try it out, and then based on the areas where the Council of State believes that the control options we now have are better than those we have. What measures are now being put in place so that they not only compensate but overcompensate? I've understood that it's formulated as satisfactory, but through the hearings it was probably said that in some areas it's better what's coming now than what's happening today. This I guess would be a very important argument for those who have taken a negative position but still have not given up their vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e1080	Now, the Minister of Agriculture – we say – is the lucky situation that he was not in the Chamber when this was debated the last time. He does not need to change any meaning at all in relation to what he should have said. Sometimes it can be liberating to be in that position. The attitude of the Minister of Agriculture is the platform of this Government and a description of the way in which this EEA Agreement was to be treated in the veterinary sector. Through what is described in the Declaration of Adults, through consultations with the bodies of the Storting and by finding solutions that this government could put itself behind when the agreement was to be presented to the Stortinget, the Minister of Agriculture has, within that framework, put forward his work both in the Ministry and in relation to the Government. That means, of course, that I could never have gone to Stortinget with this agreement without being able to stand behind it and say that this ensures public and animal health in the same way as before. In relation to the measures in place and which were not in the past, I would like to refer to the vote and the majority opinion which refers to what was in the Jagland regime and which has been followed up by the Bondevik government. As the majority also says, the Bondevik government has proposed increased appropriations for control measures and the establishment of its own zoonoses unit. In addition, I did not intend to include in my post that we will launch a pilot project in some counties with a regional unit to test a new organisation of the public oversight of food businesses in order to ensure good food management – this in order to test a system also regionally where one will meet a greater need for control than has been previously. Otherwise, I think it's a little fruitful to relate to what another government would have done. I think, as far as this is a bit of an interesting debate. We have to deal with what lies here now, and whether it's enough to ensure that what we have the duty to provide is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e1093	SV agrees with the strengthening measures proposed by the Government when it comes to veterinary issues. What I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture for is a confirmation that this is what the Minister of Agriculture stands for. In Denmark, there has been criticism of the veterinary regime imposed by the EU on the country. In connection with, inter alia: The Salmonella variant DT 104 has raised questions about the veterinary border control. The Danish Minister of Agriculture's answer clearly shows what the Minister of Agriculture in Norway wants here. He says: ‘What I cannot do — neither with swine fever nor with DT 104 — is introduce a special Danish requirement for border control. This would clearly contradict Denmark’s international obligations vis-à-vis the other EU countries.’ The Minister of Agriculture then says that it is now up to importers to take this responsibility. And he goes on to say, ‘It is therefore also the responsibility of the individual holder to contribute to the minimisation of the risk involved in trade by refraining, as far as possible, from entering and carrying out live animals.’ What I want to know from the Minister of Agriculture is: is this system the Minister of Agriculture wants?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e1110	The main system is that no greater requirements can be imposed on the quality of the products to be imported than on the quality of the products to be marketed in their own country, which would discriminate against the party who wants to sell products to Norway. That is why we have a whole range of control programmes that we are now running in Norway to document both the health status of animals and the situation we have in relation to the products being traded. This has revealed that some of the things we thought we were free of are actually in Norway. So you might want to be a little careful about saying that everything is good and good in Norway. We also have a responsibility to sweep for our own door. Then I want to add that in Norway we also have a salmonella programme, which we will of course continue with. Compared to Sweden and Finland, we have no control over the salmonella situation when importing from these countries, because they have the same programme. It's within today's agreement, and it will continue. This programme does not exist in Denmark. Evidence has to be provided – an animal health certificate has to be provided on dispatch. And that is the system that currently exists in Denmark, which will be applied to other EEA countries. For other countries, this will be met with border control in the same way as for third countries today. So I think we've met the need we're going to meet in relation to what's going on with salmonella in general. Lately, I want to add that what is actually an advantage is that you can no longer address all the responsibilities to the public authorities. You also have a responsibility as a producer and as an importer, and you will be confronted with the fact that you have not fulfilled this responsibility. An importer may impose an additional requirement on the company from which it is imported in order to ensure that the product is of the quality it must have.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e1121	Of course, in this debate, more have been concerned with compensatory measures, which are intended to ensure that controls are as good as or better than the current system. Former Minister of Agriculture Dag Terje Andersen outlined a number of such measures in his presentation to the Stortinget in January 1997. In his speech here today, however, the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, Einar Steensnæs, said the following: ‘However, the Bondevik Government has worked to supplement the agreement with a number of so-called national compensatory measures to make control of imports of animal products and live animals as good as possible.’ My question to the Council of State is quite simple: Is it that, in addition to this, the Government of Bondevik has supplemented the agreement with a number of so-called national control measures, which cannot be defined as a control measure?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e1133	I can understand to this extent the need of the Workers' Party to say that everything is up to the old. I would like to say that it has been very important for the Minister of Agriculture to go through the control measures put in place by the former Minister of Agriculture within the space of action in relation to the EEA agreement that we are now in place. In addition, there has been a need which, at least from the Government’s point of view, has been clearly present, in order to increase the appropriations so that the measures outlined should have a greater chance of working. I would not have said that another government would not have done the same, but I relate to what this government has done. In addition, the point relating to the zoonoses unit is quite significant, which is intended to provide a greater overview of the way in which diseases of animals can be passed on to humans. This is a very important measure. Then I have already mentioned the scheme that we are going to try with a regional unit that can also be exploited in relation to this scheme. In addition, the Government has said that it will have an ongoing evaluation. A report on this evaluation shall be provided in its entirety and in the manner in which it has worked. I can't say that another government wouldn't have done the same thing. I think that debate is a little interesting, but I just want to point out that this is in this government's actions and proposals towards Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e1143	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e1146	The proposal states that the Government's work on the extension of the EEA Agreement in the veterinary field is a follow-up to the Decision of 18 June 1997, in which the majority of the Storting asked the Ministry, on the basis of given guidelines, to promote the case for the Grand Duchy with a view to its implementation from 1 January 1998. The central parties, SV and RV constituted the minority at this vote. Because the EU needed longer time for internal clearance, implementation has been delayed. In the light of the questions raised by the representatives Opseth and Nybakk today, it is necessary to wonder whether the Workers' Party is actually in line with the decisions they took on 18 June last year. Following the accession of the central government, it was examined, in accordance with the Declaration of Adults, whether it was possible to renegotiate the agreement concluded between the EU and the previous government. Since it was clarified that such renegotiation was not possible, the Government, as mentioned above, has followed up the majority decision of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of 18 June 1997. The centre batch has indicated on several occasions that the batch is opposed to the indication of the border check in favour of what we consider to be a weaker control system. In examining the amendments to Annex I to the EEA Agreement concerning veterinary and phytosanitary conditions by the Government, four of the Governments of the Central Party, following an overall assessment, chose to take these amendments. At the end of the vote, the Group of the Centre Party will, at the end of the day, oppose the proposed extension of the EEA Agreement, which is in line with the opinion of the Governing Council of the Centre Party of 15 March of this year, where the Governing Council asked the Steering Committee to oppose the extension of the EEA Agreement. The main spokesman of the centre party, Odd Roger Enoksen, has gone into a previous post on the main grounds of the lot in order to reject the so-called veterinary agreement. Let me briefly clarify the central party's main objections to this agreement. In the opinion of the Centre Party, the agreement does not adequately observe the precautionary principle. A well-functioning control system, based on border control, is replaced by a sample-based system, which, in the worst case, may result in both the sale and consumption of animal products before the analytical results are available. At the time of adoption of the EEA Agreement in 1992, it was crucial that Norway should be able to maintain national control provisions in relation to trade in animals and animal products. Since then, trade in animal products has increased, and during the hearings it is clear that the disease situation in Norway's countries has deteriorated since 1992. Normally, such a worsening situation would lead to the establishment of a better control system and stricter controls. However, in order to facilitate Norwegian fish exports – which are of course favourable in isolation – a leading commodity principle therefore leaves and opts out of the border controls that were considered not only important in 1992 but as ‘decisive’ for, among other things. «our favourable animal health». Let me stress that the issue that the Stortinget is dealing with today is primarily about an important consumer issue – this is not what the Right has said earlier in the debate, that this is primarily about fish. During the hearing, the head of the Consumer Council, Anne-Lise Bakken, referred to a report from the Scientific Committee of the State Food Authority, such as: refers to the high incidence of food-borne diseases in many EU countries and concludes that a significant reduction in border controls would mean ‘reducing the possibility of avoiding consignments of infectious agents entering the Norwegian market’. The choice that Stortinget will make today is a political choice, one in which – to facilitate fish exports – is willing to waive a control regime that has most likely contributed to Norway's continuing to have a favourable animal health status and to a large extent has been saved from many foodborne diseases. This is a political choice, and it is a political priority which is ‘very worrying, with consumer eyes’, to quote again the leading spokeswoman of consumers, the head of the Consumer Council.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e1178	After listening to the representative Johan J. Jakobsen, I have been deprived of the last doubt that it is the agricultural interests that have won the total victory over the fishing interests in the Central Party. No one can argue that this case is primarily about fish and about the industry's opportunities for market access. And I think you stick your head in the sand if you try to give the impression that the world hasn't changed – at least the EU has changed since 1992. There is every reason to recall that the EEA Agreement, which entered into force on 1 January 1994, does not cover the veterinary control apparatus. Those who also dispute the fact that Norway has so far lived on a voluntary exemption dispute a fact – on the other hand, one is willing to send the entire Norwegian fishing industry, which depends on its largest market, into the EU as a test rabbit to test whether the EU is serious about what to do when harmonising border control rules. I also think it is important to state that this is not about what is representative of those who in their time said yes, or those who said no, to the EU. I think the people behind the entire Norwegian fishing industry are being ignored. There is no one who will hide that in its time voted 70 – 90 pst. of them refusing to join the EU, but the large, heavy majority of them today want the Storting to agree to ratify the veterinary agreement. And they just as well know what they're talking about, those who live without state support, and who every day are busy buying what they're catching, and what's produced, like those who're at home and more or less -- I'm not going to say all of them -- the Vignette sees Belgian blue. Here is the case of an industry without State aid which is to compete with an industry which has a protected home situation at those degrees and which, in fact, also, through representatives from the same batches representing the resistance today, has received a control stamp saying that the control measures for the notified part of what is imported in relation to what is being exported are going to be better than they have been. I believe that this is a complete turn of affairs when the representative Johan J. Jakobsen, the head of the Business Committee and representatives of the SV, interferes with Schengen in this matter and is very concerned that the Schengen Agreement can prevent and create difficulties for the import of fish into Norway! You world, what kind of crocodile tears is this an attempt at? So you are worried about the import of fish into Norway on one hand, and then you completely forget that 90 pst. of the fish caught and produced in Norway shall leave the country for export. This is to completely turn the matter upside down. Finally, I just want to say that we are in a situation where the EU is still changing. There are eleven new candidate countries, and when they enter the EU, our market access to these countries will be further exacerbated. In fact, there is no doubt that the world has changed so much that we are now gradually seeing the long-term effects of being outside the big market. But there are still some who want to fight against the power of the windmills – fortunately, there are fewer and fewer of them. As a political holm gang, I see that this can be useful for increasing percentage upswing, but I don't think it will succeed in this context either.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e1191	As the debate has become visible, this issue contains several pages. However, I would like to focus in this article on matters related to the fishing industry. In the Ministry of Fisheries’ report on prospects for the development of the Norwegian fishing industry, St.meld. No 51 for 1997-98, improving market access for fishery products has been highlighted as important for increased value creation in industry. The reduction of barriers to trade limiting the export of Norwegian seafood is therefore very important. The veterinary agreement constitutes an important contribution in this context by removing the border controls on fish exports. It will improve market access for Norwegian fish to the main market in the industry. The EU countries are our immediate market, and many of the EU countries are our most stable markets. The value of fish exports to the EU in 1997 was DKK 14.5 billion and amounted to 59 pst. of total fish exports. Despite the problems that have arisen on the Russian and Asian markets, total fishing exports are expected to increase by more than 10 pst this year. However, for the export of fish to the EU, the increase will be even more marked, making the importance of this market more visible by the fact that there is also a buffer that mitigates the problems arising in other markets. When I then add that a not insignificant proportion of fish exports to countries outside the EU are transiting through the EU and are therefore also subject to border controls, you can see the extent of this border control for Norwegian fishing industry. Against this background, I am concerned that the European Union has an impact. On 1 January 1997 its legislation on border controls has been harmonised. It involves stricter border controls compared to the exports of fish to which they are currently subject. The special arrangements we have had with simpler border control pending the negotiated agreement would be lost if Norway were to say no. At that time, the fishing industry would meet a new control regime with significant potential for delays. And just delays are some of that fish exports are most vulnerable to. It is not possible to predict the extent and frequency of delays, but the sloping mouth is not large until the exporters risk having to sell the fish at a reduced price. In the most serious cases, the consequence will be the loss of customers for those who over time are unable to produce the goods in good time and with the right quality. Of course, some transparency is required in the export of fish and the threshold batches must be transferred to the markets, and this has been tried and described both from the Government and the industry. If it is not considered good enough documentation, I think it must be a requirement that those who do not believe it should be able to point out more specifically what kind of documentation is required. In a situation where the current special regime poses problems for the export of fish, it is essential to avoid further worsening the conditions of competition for exporters. On the other hand, when the negotiated agreement provides an opportunity to significantly improve them, it is an option that I, as Minister for Fisheries, would recommend. Taking into account that fish are not part of the free movement of goods within the EEA Agreement and that the industry has to deal with a significant customs burden, it is important that the works of agreement be improved on the possible points. While industry is dependent on good export conditions, the fishing industry in Finnmark and Troms in particular depend on raw material inputs from Russian vessels. The agreement will require the establishment of border inspection posts for the control of these imports by Norway. However, this does not include imports of fresh fish. For the other fish, practical arrangements will be in place to ensure the smoothest possible control. Among other things, it is added. not until the fish has to be physically produced at the border inspection post itself, but can be delivered to the farm’s own plant for inspection, where this is in reasonable proximity. It is my intention that we should go far in order to avoid unnecessary obstacles to the established pattern of trade. Should experience show that the system is not functioning properly in this respect, it may be appropriate to establish several border inspection posts. I am therefore convinced that we will be able to deal satisfactorily with this side of the agreement and that the agreement will be of great benefit to Coastal Norway as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e1206	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e1209	In the debate so far, many have said – and the Council of State itself was involved – that the disadvantages to the fishing industry and the export of fish cannot be demonstrated, they cannot be proved. Despite the statements of an overall Norwegian fishing industry, it was still asserted strongly despite the fact that the Council of State itself has been able to call it crystal clear in its statements, and he has so far been the most quoted of the day in the debate. My question is simply: how does the Council of State feel that there is still a requirement for documentation and evidence, as the Norwegian fishing industry and the Council of State themselves have said on this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e1216	Now it is not new that a political debate can argue about reality. And in a case like this, where it's hard to quantify the effects of one system or another, I don't see anything wrong in it. Although I have party colleagues who disagree with me in my assessments and in the industry's assessments when considering a holistic approach, it is not difficult to relate to. I think the representative Hanssen has also experienced in his own party in other contexts that there may be disagreement. Let me just say it this way: with the review I as the Council of State have had of the matter, I am determined that there will be significant financial costs and also other problems associated with a new border regime that involves a significant increase in veterinary checks at the border of all the batches of fish entering the EU area. Let me also say that one of the most important arguments that have come from those who are opposed to the agreement is that, in the interests of consumers, a border check must be carried out. I assume that, in this context, it is also recognised that, in the interests of their consumers, the EU authorities will maintain and require border controls in line with their own legislation. From this point of view, a strong demand from Norway to maintain a separate border check will strengthen the EU’s argument to have increased control at the border of food imported from Norway. That is why I think it is appropriate to substantiate the claims about the danger of consumers being harmed by the new regime.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e1223	When it comes to discussing EU issues, the Minister for Fisheries is not an unauthorised person. Only three-four years ago, when he was a big-time representative, his postman was that if Norway agreed to EU membership, he was willing to bet on the detachment of the northern part of Norway from the kingdom. It's to the extent that an interesting thought could have been reflected on a number of things, but there's no reason to try it out afterwards. No one shall dispute the wishes and intentions of the Minister for Fisheries, that he will do what is in his power to serve the best interests of the fishing industry. There is every reason to pay tribute to the Minister for Fisheries for his commitment. Now I may be more in doubt as to how much all the goodwill he has met from the Workers' Party and the Right strengthens his shares in the Center Party, but it may come along well afterwards. But a little bit back to Schengen. Does the Minister for Fisheries share the opinions of the most prominent Central Party leaders on the fear of the consequences of the Schengen Agreement for Norway? Can the Minister for Fisheries clarify what his view of the implementation of the Schengen Agreement would have to do with the disadvantages of the Norwegian fishing industry, compared with the ratification of the veterinary agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e1232	I am somewhat uncertain whether the representative Kristiansen tried to link the veterinary agreement to Norwegian membership of the EU. Let me just say it this way: as I – at least the Central Party – perceived the no-movement, the option of membership was to get the best trade relations with the EU, get as good a free trade agreement as possible, as secure as possible, our exports. I saw the enlarged EEA Agreement as an element that could create more favourable conditions for goods exports from Norway to the EU. When it comes to linking the veterinary agreement to the Schengen Agreement, I consider the two agreements to be completely separate. The Schengen Agreement concerns the control of persons, passport obligations, etc. The government has not come to such an extent that it fully clarifies what will have to be the Norwegian regime at the external border. But I can already say so that so far I see significant problems related to the fishing industry if Norway were to become a member of Schengen and have to make substantial changes, tightening up, in relation to the national regime we have today. We must remember that we have a significant landing of fishing catches from Scottish, English and Irish fishing vessels, which will be outside the Schengen cooperation and become a third country. If the regime becomes such that they also have to enter special ports of import, control ports, before they can go to the place where they are to deliver their catch, that would be a problem. The same applies, of course, to the significant landing from Russian fishing vessels. So we get back to that when the government has investigated the matter and presented its view.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e1239	The Minister for Fisheries has argued for his own view that the veterinary agreement must be adopted. He argued that Norway’s large fish exports, with more than 500 fish trailers to the EU every week, would be severely damaged without the agreement in place. I can agree with the description he had in his main post, when it comes to the market challenges facing Norwegian fishing industry. He is supported by his view of the agreement, both by the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Health, who is responsible for animal health and public health in the country. Both have been successful in ensuring that the veterinary agreement and the control regimes for which the agreement is concluded take care of Norway's interests in the same way as the system we have today. In spite of the fact that these state councils are fully in favour of the agreement, there are four central government councils that believe the risk is so great that they've taken it from the government. In addition, the whole of the Centre party in the Storing Group is opposed to the agreement. In the evening post of 7 November, Angelsen was referred to, where he says that his party traps that require her when it comes to the veterinary agreement do so on a thin basis. When asked if the Center Party would have fallen to another position with a more correct picture of the everyday life, Angelsen says that he does not ignore it. The question is: what are these government councils and the central party's large-scale group that have not understood the agreement, as the Minister for Fisheries from the same Central Party, until they have understood well? Is this really a pedagogical problem, where Norwegian fishing interests have to give way to insider medical symbolism policies at the Center Party's organisational salts?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e1250	I'm actually tempted to follow Fridtjof Frank Gundersen's line in the debate of speaking straight out and open. Let me say that after the debate on the veterinary agreement started with full weight after the summer vacation, there was a process in the Central Party with increasing and strong resistance to changing the regime we have today. It naturally propagated itself into the central party's organs, and the central party government made a decision that the large group should vote against the agreement, and that the state councils should take it. One might say that the background to the political situation is that we have a party apparatus that has asked the elected bodies, right up to the big group, to vote against the agreement. And I don't have any trouble accepting that there might be arguments that a party is taking such a position. But from my point of view and with the review I have had of the design of this agreement we are now going to try to adopt, I believe that it is entirely right, especially for the coastal and fisheries industries and also for national interests, to give the fisheries industry improved market access to the main market under this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e1258	As we are all aware, the starting point for the entire veterinary agreement was the fishing industry's need. There would be major problems for fish exports, it was said by Jagland, and now it is Angelsen who claims the same thing. I say "higher" because this has not been documented. So once again, I have to ask for documentation on this alleged problem. That the EU should create a lot of problems for Norwegian fish exports must be documented. And then it'll be a mistake for the Minister of Fisheries to say that it's up to us to prove it. We have not wanted this agreement, and after you have been able to document it in relation to Svinesund and elsewhere, these problems do not exist. Nor will they ever arise, so the need for evidence in this matter is to be found with the majority and the Minister for Fisheries. I must therefore have the Centre Party put its brilliant remark in the position at this point, and ask whether the Minister for Fisheries disagrees with this. The note reads: ‘However, this member has noticed that in the proposition it has not been possible to demonstrate the economic and practical consequences it will have for Norwegian fish exports to the EU, compared to the current situation, if the size does not accept the veterinary agreement.’ I assume, then, that the documentation requested by the Centre Party, which SV wants, does not exist, but can the Minister for Fisheries present it here and now?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e1270	I said in my post that if you are not able to observe and read the description of this given in the proposition and in other contexts from the Minister of Fisheries and also from the industry, I do not understand how to document this without giving exactly what you want proof of. In a reply it will be a little short time for a careful examination of the matter, but shortly until that is the case. Following a long process, EU countries have agreed to establish common veterinary legislation to remove veterinary checks at the border. In the common legislation, they have transferred controls on health, sanitary and veterinary at a different level, and impose requirements on businesses, on self-control, on production controls, which are at a significantly high level, to which Norway has joined and to which the fishing industry requires substantial investment in buildings, in self-control, etc. This would have been necessary for the Norwegian fishing industry, whether or not we join the agreement, because from 1 January 1999, the legislation that the EU has put in place for third countries will also apply to Norway. This will mean an increased frequency of controls for Norway, from 0 pst. to 5 pst. today on veterinary medicine – 100 pst. We have document control today, and it will still be – until 20 pst. for both fresh and frozen products and 50 pst. for other, more processed fish products. And if you don't take into account the realities of what it will mean by increasing costs and increasing problems for the batches to go out, I don't understand how to better document the realities.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-17.ana.ud456e1277	The size now pauses, and the break lasts until noon. 16th@item: inlistbox
