ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e37	The representative of Gunnar Schaug shall apply for leave from 7 December to 9 December to attend a meeting chaired by the North Atlantic Assembly in Cairo. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Morten Olsen, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e57	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and will consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e62	I suggest Aud Blattmann.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e67	Aud Blattmann is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Aud Blattmann is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. The representative Steinar Bastesen will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e72	I have two suggestions that I would like to make. One is to set up a sample to assess the economic and social impact of the Cultural Memory Act. The second proposal envisages the establishment of a sample to assess the economic and social impact of the national park and nature conservation plans.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e79	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e91	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 45 minutes, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party 20 minutes each, Right 15 minutes, the Centre Party 10 minutes and the Socialist Left Party, Left and Twist Party elected 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the insertion of main speakers by each party group, and five lines with replies after the insertion of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e102	I am pleased that an overall committee agrees that the overall objective of our alcohol policy is to limit the damage that use and abuse can lead to as much as possible. There is a well-known link between total consumption, abuse and alcohol harm, and early onset of alcohol use or abuse. An overall committee has also stated that important objectives of a more offensive alcohol policy are to reduce total alcohol consumption, to increase the initial age of alcohol use, to accept alcohol freedom in traffic, in working life, in pregnancy, in sport and in children’s and youth work, and to move towards a more alcoholic option. The last one has also worked well. In the first ten months of the year, red wine sales have increased by 10.8 p.m. Unfortunately, it seems impossible to achieve our target of reducing alcohol consumption in Norway by 25pst. from 1980 to 2000. We probably won't have a greater reduction than approximately. 10 pst. Moreover, the national objective has been identical to the WHO’s objective in this area. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Party of Advances and the Right, believe that a target for a reduction in alcohol consumption for a new period of time should be set as soon as possible. I think it is important to have some concrete objectives for our alcohol policy even after the year 2000. Although we have not achieved our target of reducing consumption, it is important to emphasise that Norway still has low alcohol consumption in international terms. This position should be aimed at maintaining. International research shows that price and availability have been effective instruments. With a more open world, more open borders and greater illicit availability, some of the traditional instruments are weakened. They're no longer as important. The challenge will then be to defend traditional alcohol policy while using other instruments. Margot Wallström, Social Minister of Göran Persson's first government, has said this. I agree with this statement and will stress the need for our alcohol policy to have a popular anchor. If trafficking and home burning are allowed to account for an increasing share of total alcohol consumption, confidence in our alcohol policy will be undermined. I am therefore very concerned that an increasing proportion of our brandy consumption is via the sale of the wine monopoly. The information manager of the Vinmonopolet, Svein Ringstad, has stated that it seems that smuggling is currently formidable. The monopoly on wine assumes that there is at least as much illegal marketing as legally spirits. In addition, there will be tax-free sales and an ever-increasing border trade. I personally believe that it is important to reduce taxes on brandy products and to pursue a more targeted charging policy. Some are concerned that this will mean a reduction in revenue to the country. However, if we are able to reduce illicit consumption and channel sales via the Wine Monopoly, revenue will increase. The same thing will apply if we reduce the trade leakage. I do not think that high charges alone will determine our alcohol consumption. If it had been a correct claim, for example, it would have to be The Swedes smoke a lot more than us. They have much cheaper prices for tobacco, cigarettes, etc. Nevertheless, Sweden has a smaller total tobacco consumption per year. head than us. But the Swedish have a much better preventive work. I have also, with great interest, registered Prime Minister Bondevik's comments on the 1999 state budget with regard to the taxes on alcohol and tobacco. The Committee considers that for the period 1999-2002 it is necessary to open up at least 40 new pole sales in addition to the 10 established for 1997-98, if necessary with simplified range of products. I have never understood the reactions to giving the population outside the urban areas a reasonable opportunity to make their purchases on a wine monopoly sale without having to run tens of miles. I think it is important to clarify that the new sales should be operated economically economically. I would also like to stress the important and traditional tasks of the Vinmonopolet, namely to preserve the monopoly and the restrictions. It is therefore important to maintain confidence in the Vinmonopole in good service and customer-friendly outlets. The number of committees is in order for the monopoly of wine to be tested for self-service in some of its sales. The scheme shall be evaluated after two years. In order to achieve important objectives of reducing total alcohol consumption and raising the initial age of alcohol use, it is necessary to increase the focus on prevention measures and take action beyond the time period covered by the action plan. An overall committee agrees with the objective of drug-free treatment in relation to activities for children and young people. The members of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, believe that sport and alcohol do not belong together and that Norway should take the initiative to establish international rules for sporting events. In order to prevent undesirable developments, inter alia: in these areas, it is necessary to work at a Nordic and European level. The majority of the Committee also attaches great importance to the strengthening of the role of the school and the competence of teachers contained in the action plan’s proposal to establish new posts in the drug competence centres to provide teaching for teachers. The school effort as a drug prevention arena should be further expanded. I am impressed by the efforts of drug policy organisations and voluntary efforts for the rest. The majority of the Committee then also says that it is important to increase support for drug policy organisations, as well as to engage organisations and groups that have not been involved in the prevention of drug use as their main objective. Another committee has noted that the National Council of the abstinence population and the other actors in the drug field want to establish a TV-based game of income for work against drugs, violence and crime. The majority take a positive view of this recording and will request an evaluation of the application for the award of new games. The Committee emphasises the importance of providing drug users with help when they wish and are motivated to do so. It is therefore necessary for municipalities and county councils to give priority to this work. It is also important that treatment institutions have competent staff to respond to drug users for detoxification and subsequent treatment. Arrangements for strengthening the back-up protection are very important, as this may prevent a relapse. As of 1 January 1998, all municipalities are required to draw up action plans for alcohol policy. The Ministry will prepare templates for this work with reference to how they can be designed and with the assumption that the plan will be adopted within a short period of time. Members of the Labour Party believe that a deadline should be set for the completion of such plans, for example: by the year 2000. The majority of the committees, all with the exception of the Advance Party, recommend that municipalities contribute to better control measures and stronger reactions in the event of a breach of the rules on beers' turnover in the grocery stores and to the referencing in general. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, proposes that the Government evaluate the effects of the time-frames of the alcohol law on the donation of alcoholic beverages. Parents are important role models for their children in the use of drugs, and the Committee therefore considers it positive that the Directorate of Drugs should carry out an awareness campaign against parents. It is important that young people themselves take the initiative to form ‘countercultures’ for drug culture. The Committee recommends that the granting authorities also support the young people's own initiative. The number of committees refers to St.prp. No 18 for 1998-99 and will come back to the proposals for appropriations for the examination of that proposal. The representatives of the Workers' Party have proposed to grant 20 million. for action under the action plan, in the case of redisposals within the year’s budget. We would like, among other things: EUR 13 million. SEK in grants to abstinence organisations, etc. on the budget of the Directorate for Drugs. It is proposed that the appropriations be made transferable. I want here to bring forward a project the committee is familiar with. Lions Quest Foundation Norway has translated and organized teaching arrangements for 1. – 4th class and a program for 5. - 7th grade. They have now been asked to create a programme for 8. - 10th grade. They're missing $3 million. kr for translation, organisation and printing. I think such a project deserves financial support as soon as possible. Drug policy does not only include alcohol policy, although the action plan mostly deals with it. Of course, we have major challenges in the area of drugs, as well as more problems with the misuse of legally prescribed drugs. I think it's important to strengthen guidance and supervision on how doctors print prescriptions on addictive drugs. It is also important that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, as mentioned in the action plan, will assess the role of legally outsourced medicinal products as a problem of abuse, among others. in the case of overdose deaths. It is important that Norway continues to have restrictive drug policies. Internationally, a more liberal drug policy is being called for. I am also very pleased that, at the weekend’s referendum, the Swiss rejected legalising drug use. It is important that Norway participates in international forums, for example: in the United Nations, where attitudes to drugs are discussed and influenced. In 1997, 177 drugrelated deaths were recorded. Unfortunately, the number will be even higher in the current year. The Committee underlines previous decisions to increase the appropriations for methadone treatment for those meeting the criteria for such treatment. The Committee also stresses that methadone treatment should be a nationwide offer. Temporary guidelines for methadone-assisted treatment in prison shall be reviewed in the context of a new extension of the methadone project. The final regulations shall be completed in the new year. The majority, all except the Advance Party, believe that prison inmates in Norwegian prisons should be able to apply to be assessed against the same conditions for methadone treatment as for other long-term opiate addicts. One of the most important tasks of drug policy must be to prevent the recruitment of new people into the addictive environment. It is also important to focus on prevention in this area. I wish we could prioritise prevention work even more strongly, rather than increase the appropriations for the treatment of harm and disease due to the use of drugs. Finally, let me address the proposal put forward by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e180	Einar Olav Skogholt has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e185	First I want to correct a mistake that the representative of Skogholt had in his post, where he said: ‘The members of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, consider that sport and alcohol do not belong together.’ That is something the Progress Party naturally agrees with, and it is also on page 6 of the Committee's position. That Progress Party did not agree, applied to the sports arenas, because these are also used for things other than sports. Then I have a question for the representative of Skogholt about alcohol as a cause of health problems and social problems. All lots, except the Advance Party, say in the setting: ‘The total cost of these areas to society is estimated to be more than twice the amount of fees charged.’;» Although it was not possible to document this in the committee, I would ask the representative of Skogholt to provide where these figures are taken from. So another question: doesn't the representative of Skogholt see that when we don't take in the amounts he could want in alcohol taxes, it can also be because in Norway we have, over time, been pursuing a tax policy that makes more and more of the alcohol turnover illegal? And doesn't the representative of Skogholt see this as a big problem?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e204	I am sorry if there have been any misunderstandings about what I mentioned about the attitude of the Advance Party towards sport and alcohol in my post. But what I wanted to find out was that a majority of the committee, all except the Advancement Party, has a strong request to the Council of State to engage at both Nordic and European level in order for us to have equal rules in, among other things. sports event advertising, etc. Without a comprehensive cross-border policy, it will be impossible to reach individual decisions in each country. The Committee's opinion on the harm and cost of alcohol use and abuse is, of course, an estimate of the costs involved. But there can be no doubt that many places in our hospitals are occupied by patients with a background in alcohol abuse, and that the costs of alcohol consumption and abuse are very high. To the last question raised by the representative Nesvik, I also said in my post that one of our most important tasks must be to prevent the illicit circulation of alcohol and get the sale via the sale of the wine monopoly. There will be more revenue in the treasury. Reduced trade leakage to Sweden and Denmark will result in the same. It is therefore also important for alcohol policy reasons to identify the activities and tasks of the Vinmonopoly.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e213	In the past, there has been a rather close and good relationship between the labour movement and the abstinence movement – two movements both of which had solidarity as an ideological basis. The abstinence movement has the power to renew its practices and instruments without giving up the idea of solidarity. The Labour Party seems to be moving, and I will not call that movement work movement, but glide flight, as it is shown by the proposals that the Workers' Party shares with the Progress Party and the Right. The Labour Party now seems to fill the concept of solidarity with a new content: every man and woman's pole. I have to ask what does the Labour Party mean by the new principle of a lower and not an upper limit on the establishment of new wine monopoly sales? Is this to be the new district policy instrument? Is it polet to maintain the settlement in the districts, and is it really because of the lack of pole sales that people move out of the districts? I am pleased that the case-rapporteur states that the sales should be carried out in a profitable manner. I hope, of course, that doesn't mean that people in different environments are encouraged to act as closely as possible on the pole in order not to lose it. I do not put any such thought into the statements made by the rapporteur, but I would like to ask the case-rapporteur the question of the principle attitude he here expresses, meaning that he would then put down unprofitable wine monopoly sales.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e222	The work movement and the abstinence movement have had and have an excellent relationship. The labour movement is still moving, and we have to be able to stick our finger in the ground and see the problems we are facing, that the turnover of spirits at the pole sales at the Vinmonopoly is going down dramatically, and that there is a turnover of spirits in other ways that we should all be very concerned about. And when half of the turnover takes place outside the wine monopoly, in illegal ways, I think more than the representatives of the work movement should respond. It's far from that we want a pole for every man and woman in this country, but I've never realized that it's going to be much harder to set up a pole sale in the districts than in our big cities. For a long time, we have had a small fight, including with the Minister of Social Affairs, to agree to create up to 40 new wine monopoly sales in addition to the ten created in 1997 and 1998. So if we can establish wine monopoly sales that are sustainable, prevent the increase in illegal activities and reduce illegal activities, it will be a major advance in the alcohol policy arena.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e229	Unlike the previous representative, I would like to commend the case rapporteur for having been a proponent of modernising the alcohol policy of the Workers' Party. Because that's really how the case rapporteur also said that you have to stick your finger in the ground and see where you are. If you want to take the growing smuggling, home burning and all the unregistered consumption seriously, it's basically just a conclusion to that, and that's that we need a wine monopoly that is a modern store chain and that consumers have an interest in going to – and it also has something to do with distance and availability. This could reduce – we hope – unregistered consumption and smuggling. And if you're serious about smuggling, you do something about it. You don't just keep old tabs high, tabs that have faded long ago. I would like to express my pleasure at the fact that the Workers' Party in this round, just a year ago, now supports the Right's proposal to allow the Vinmonopolet to open up self-service shops, and that they also support our proposal to lift the ban on beer with a higher alcoholic strength than seven. So my question has to be how long it's going to go before the Workers' Party supports the proposal we're only with the Progress Party on, that's to allow people other than the Wine Monopoly to sell wine. The rapporteur does not see that it is fully possible to have all the public regulations and control arrangements that you would like, both in terms of availability, opening hours and age regulations, regardless of whether we have a public monopoly to sell the goods? We can have exactly the same control mechanisms for private wine vendors, we don't need a wine monopoly for that. When will the Workers' Party come after and support this way of selling alcohol?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e236	It is true, as the representative Höegh says, that the Workers' Party is also involved in a proposal that it should be possible to sell beer with strengths above 7 % by volume at the sale of the Vinmonopole. It is also a debate we have had earlier in Stortinget, without our consent. But after what I have understood now, a total mass agrees on such an attitude. Some of us show what we mean, by making a proposal here today. Others take note that ESA has asked the Government to reform its policy in that area, which I have also realized that the Government is fully committed to doing in the near future. There is a minority proposal for the sale of wine, other than the sale of the wine monopoly, in grocery stores or in the case of own sales, as the representative, Hoegh, said. I think that if we open up such a sale of the wine products, we'll be able to hit the legs under the authority of the Vinmonopole. They need to have a financial basis to run the sales they have today and to be able to open up another 40 new sales, minimum. If we want to fight to ring the Wine Monopoly as an instance and to maintain sales in order to operate the best possible alcohol policy, in the opinion of the Labour Party, we should not allow wine to be sold in grocery stores or other suitable places.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e241	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e245	First, I also want to brag about the job that the rapporteur has done in this matter. I think he has presented the matter in a neat and good way to the committee. As the representative of Høegh was involved, I also see that the representative of Skogholt has done a good job within his own ranks to get a more sensible alcohol policy. The government has now presented this action plan for the reduction of drug use. I guess it's no big surprise that the Progress Party can't stand 100 pst. behind this plan submitted. There are a good many elements of this plan that the Progress Party agrees with. But it is surprising that the government does not present a more comprehensive document than is the case. Unfortunately, this document that we are dealing with today bears the mark of being a document that is filled with a lot of chat and views, but unfortunately very little with action. It is disappointing that the Government has not presented a document that is more than the case. the prevention and new treatment measures. That's something we're sorry about. There is, however, a good deal about these areas in the plan, but there is a little too little handhold when it comes to the fact that there are too few places for treatment and, in particular, for detoxification. The progress party sees it as a major problem that a number of people who need help for weaning do not have room because they are not drug-free when they show up for treatment. This is something in which the government must intervene, at least as long as there is not a sufficient number of detoxification sites around the country. I have to point out that we have the system that when you get to the weaning and treatment site, you have to be drug free, but unfortunately not everyone is able to do it. The government also points to the establishment of a drug policy council, as foreseen in the plan, and it should act as a reference group for the Social Minister and be a link between the administrative powers, the social partners, the business organisations, the insurance companies and the drug policy organisations. Unfortunately, the Progress Party does not believe that this Council will make so many new contributions to drug policy. I fear that this Council, which is now established in the autumn, will rather act as a sleeping cushion for the Social Minister. I hope that the Social Minister will be aware of this danger. The Party of Progress is committed to reducing the use of drugs. It is a fact that the use of drugs incurs enormous costs for society. The Progress Party is also in agreement with – as the representative of Skogholt was also involved in his post – but we do not estimate the amount of the expenditure to be twice as large as that included in the fees, because unfortunately it cannot be documented. We know that there's a lot of cases of illness, and that something has to be done about it. The party of progress is concerned that we must have an alcohol policy that has a strong popular anchoring. It is important that the measures taken to reduce the use — and not least the abuse — of drugs meet understanding among their inhabitants. The Progress Party does not believe that we can solve these problems by means of prohibition policies and still skyrocketing charges. These are measures that have been used for a long time, and the only thing that has resulted is that we have come into the situation that smuggling and home-burning take over an increasingly large proportion of the alcohol turnover in this country. This is something that we can't just sit and watch. It is now time for the taxes on alcohol and tobacco to be reduced considerably, and it is a pleasure to note that, in its budgetary conciliation with the Advance Party and the Right, the government parties have actually obtained a majority to lower the taxes on alcohol for the first time — at least for the first time in many decades. It makes sense for government parties, and we look forward to continued fruitful cooperation in this area. But this is just a little step in the right direction. It is a paradox that in Norway we have such a high level of taxes on alcohol and tobacco that large parts of the Norwegian population are closest to the electoral process to our neighbouring countries to buy these kinds of goods for what can be called popular prices. Another problem worth noting is that a number of young people actually get their first meeting with the alcohol via smuggling and home burning because of the high level of charges, while simply getting the illegal goods at a much lower price. It is also a fact that as long as the criminal serves so enormous sums on his business, unfortunately more and more people will go out on this path. The criminal will be traded because the products have a much lower price than what is legally sold in Norway, and as long as the Norwegian people do not understand the curious alcohol policy and charging policy. The Progress Party is committed to promoting the use of positive instruments in the fight against drug abuse, and it is important, in the view of the Progress Party, to focus on prevention. There has to be a goal, as all parties say, raising the initial age in terms of drug use, as well as coming out with some kind of information that is understood by the youth. This information must be promoted on the premises of young people, not on the premises of adults, and at the very least on the premises of politicians. It is important to point out the adverse effects of alcohol and drugs and the social problem that this entails. But we don't have to get into a situation where you become so instructive that it's still tough to use drugs as early as possible. It is written in the action plan that there is no broad review of the alcohol law, as it has been so short since a major revision of it. However, I find it necessary to address some changes in some areas. It was important for the members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right to promote the proposal to allow the sale of wine on domestic flights in Norway. This became important when the Minister of Social Affairs refused the airlines to sell wine on their flights in Norway, despite the fact that the Stortinget has previously signaled that this was desirable. This now seems to have a majority in this Chamber, but I think it is right to recall the wording of the proposal, namely that this should be carried out 'immediately'. The Progress Party has also found it appropriate to make a proposal for the decoration of Section 9 of the Alcohol Act, with the corresponding regulations, so that advertising logos can be legally used even if the company in question also produces alcoholic products. We've all seen the unfortunate, and in many ways incomprehensible, enforcement of this law paragraph. In my opinion, something is wrong when you do it illegally, for example. for a brewery to have its company logo on a refrigerator in a pantry because this brewery produces beer in addition to mineral water. It is also gratifying to note that it will be opened for the wine monopoly to set up a pilot scheme for self-serving pole sales – and here I just hope that my own municipality of origin, which will open wine monopolies over the New Year, can get this chance. This may be an important step on the way, so that the Norwegian people get a more balanced view of this type of product and get a little away from the guardian mindset that has been in force until today. The Party is willing to go further and wants the sale of wine and liqueur beers to be made after municipal funding. This would lead to that it could be opened for sale in the grocery stores. But this vision, unfortunately, is just the Progress Party and the Right that stands for today. The action plan refers to the continued assessment of ‘health hazard labelling of alcoholic beverages as a possible measure’. I have to say it surprises me that this is something that is still being assessed even after the debate we have had after the Social Affairs Minister's first appearance. Should this apply, there are a number of other foods that also need to be evaluated. It is a fact that salt and fat cause significant health problems and social costs to its inhabitants, and that cars kill many people in traffic. Are there areas in which the next Minister for Social Affairs should be a health mark? Or are there agricultural products like butter, milk and high-fat meat products that are next? The government shows in the proposition that it sees it as a problem that products such as herbal cannabis or so-called alcopops are being introduced and sold – despite studies conducted by SIFA in youth settings, it is hardly possible to record those who have had their first meeting with alcoholic beverages via these types of products. The promotion party is not afraid of this type of product and will also show that the sale of rusbrus has stagnated, as well as in the grocery stores as well as at the Vinmonopolet. This means that the Progress Party will oppose changing the definition of beer in the regulation on beer law or considering using the right to influence the range of products in the wine monopoly more actively than today. The action plan shows that the Government is committed to reducing alcohol consumption in Norway by 25 pst. by the year 2000, based on a 1980 level. This is done even if there is only one year left of this period and one has actually come no further than to a reduction from 1980 to 11 pst. It is important that when setting targets, targets should be realistic. And it's important when you can so clearly see that the goals are not achievable, that you change them or drop them. Unfortunately, this is not the case in this case. The party of progress is so honest that we admit that this is not possible, and therefore believes that the goal that the government parties still have is something you should go away from. Proposition also addresses the problem of the lower per mille limit — to put it as in the fairytale — to land and to water. This is a problem which, in the view of the Progress Party, does not belong to this action plan, but it is probably a matter which should go to the Justice Committee, and in that case new issues will be promoted for the Stortinget. It is also stated in the plan that this is something you will come back to. Therefore, we will await the discussion on these issues of a case to be dealt with by the Social Committee or by the Justice Committee, or when it comes to the Stortinget. The proposal proposes a budget of 20 million. for various measures. It turned out that before the Committee was given this matter, a new proposal had already been made to the Committee, which says that it is not possible to use up this money. As far as we have now come in the budgetary year, it will not be advisable to allocate this money under this action plan. That is why the Progress Party will vote against the proposal for appropriations. It can't have any purpose to grant $20 million. NOK in this case when we have to deal with another proposition where it is said that you cannot use this money. The representative of Skogholt stated that the Advance Party was opposed to methadone treatment in prisons. The progression party is not against methadone treatment in prison; the Progress Party says that those who have started methadone-assisted treatment should be able to continue this in prison. Today, we have long waiting lists to get methadone treatment, and the Progress Party says that prison sentences cannot be a reason to join a methadone project. It is to prevent a criminal act from being committed in order to be able to participate in such a project, that the Progress Party opposes this proposal. But, as I said earlier, people who have started methadone-assisted treatment will continue to do so even within prison walls. Finally, I asked the Social Minister in the Question Time about methadone-assisted treatment, and how far had come, among other things. in Oslo to get as many drug addicts as possible into this project. I was then told that it is now approx. 200 people in this country receiving methadone-assisted treatment. It is regrettable that we have not managed to get more, and I hope and believe that this is something that the social minister will follow up on, so that we can fill up the number of places around the country, and so that more and more people can benefit from this offer so that they can get an approximate normal way of life.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e296	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e299	The representative Nesvik underlined the need for treatment provision for those in need of treatment and for such treatment, and that there is no need to be rejected due to lack of financial resources in municipalities and county councils, or that applicants in need of detoxification should not be accepted prior to treatment. I fully agree that this is an important objective. The Progress Party will be positive in providing financial support for, inter alia: organisations offering both detoxification and subsequent treatment? For example, the Rus-Net scheme, which is behind the Workers' Union, has a well-recognized scheme. The U.S. and Iceland. A total of 1.5 million was allocated during the year's budgetary procedure. kr for this important work. Unfortunately, the Government did not wish to provide financial support for this excellent project in 1999. Could the Progress Party contribute to ensuring that this excellent action will be given a future even after the end of the year?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e306	The Progress Party is willing to look at all possible ways of getting both funds and places around the country. The point of progress is of the opinion that, among other things: the municipalities here must step in and provide the necessary places. It is a fact that municipalities have to think about how they use their resources in all areas, and they have to give priority, among other things. This together with a number of other things. Most of the measures taken to provide treatment facilities are positive, and there is a need to give proper priority to funding.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e311	I have two questions for the Progress Party. An overall committee other than the Advance Party states in a note that ‘abuse of alcohol is the main single cause of health problems and social problems in the country’. The Party for Progress is not included in this note. Does the representative of Nesvik know of another reason greater or equal to alcohol for health problems and social problems in this country, which we do not know about? As far as health labelling is concerned, I am surprised that the representative Nesvik compares alcohol and food with butter, milk and meat. It is also apparent from a comment in the setting. The car is also being pulled into this context. Now it is that butter, milk and meat are food and not drugs and have a useful nutritional function. Does the real representative Nesvik think that the damage associated with the consumption of butter, milk and meat in the order of magnitude is almost comparable to the damage done to society by alcohol? ‘Biler kills’, said the representative Nesvik, and that is true. But the car has a utility. Alcohol kills, but alcohol has no utility. Is tobacco not the closest basis of comparison in terms of health hazard labelling and alcohol? And the tobacco is marked as dangerous to health.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e320	First, until the last representative, Mr Naess, asked about tobacco and health hazard labelling. As far as I have been able to register, it turns out, unfortunately, that the health marking we have on our tobacco boxes has had no mision or reducing effect on the use of tobacco. Alcohol is a legally traded product in Norway today. Reasonable use of alcohol does not lead to serious health damage. Excessive consumption or misuse of alcohol causes serious damage. The same thing makes an over-consumption of the food I referred to. So finally, the reason why the Progress Party did not support the majority comment on which the representative Naess was involved – I was also concerned with it in a reply to the representative of Skogholt – is that we cannot support and document the wording in the conclusion of the Committee's comment, where it says: ‘The total cost of these areas to society is estimated to be more than twice the amount of fees charged.’;» No one has yet been able to document this for me. I have asked in the committee where the representative Naess and the others have found this number, but no one has been able to answer. You say it's an estimate. If you want to put numbers in a comitology note, you should have proof of what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e334	Since the representative Nesvik brought the car into this debate, it is a quote I think he will benefit from, as I have heard others say: when it comes to the car, it is not the speed that kills, but it is the sudden stops! I do feel that there are similar considerations here about some adverse effects. Man becomes an innocent victim in relation to many things it surrounds. That's not the way the world of reality is. I have two questions for Nesvik. One relates to a unanimous remark on which the Progress Party is represented, which states that: ‘sees it as an overall objective of alcohol policy to limit as far as possible the damage that use and abuse can cause. There is a well-known link between total alcohol consumption, abuse and harm, and early onset of alcohol use/abuse.’ So we see here that the Progress Party wants the most liberal alcohol policy possible, where I have problems seeing that there should be some limits in relation to sales outlets or sales at all, neither in terms of the time when alcohol is to be marketed nor where it is to be placed on the market. How can the Progress Party find this compatible with the fact that total consumption leads to increased abuse and increased problems? And in that case, how will the Progress Party solve those problems, when they believe that different restrictions or restrictions are not a way to go? The second question relates to the violent debate we've had, where there's a committee comment that points out that violence often occurs through the use of drugs, it can be both the victim and the perpetrator who's drunk. Does the Progress Party see that there may be a certain connection between violence and intoxication, and that in that case it may be a point to look at the opening hours of the outdoors to prevent people from getting so drunk that violence is committed in an intoxicated state?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e348	It is the instruments used today, which unfortunately the Progress Party does not have any faith in working. This applies both to alcohol and to a more liberal alcohol policy. The reason why we want a more liberal alcohol policy is that we don't believe the regulations that we actually have, and that the guardian state is now operating with, is meeting some understanding out there among people who are being hit by them. That's why the Progress Party has a slightly different view than the one that Ballo has. Violence and intoxication: Unfortunately, it is true that a number of violent episodes occur in an intoxicated state. But it is important to point out that the Progress Party wants to bring down the violence that is taking place. Personally, I have, among other things, Several years of experience in the restaurant environment, and I have to say that in terms of violence and intoxication, this unfortunately happens a lot among people who are actually not at the restaurants. There isn't always any connection with opening hours, and it hasn't gotten any worse or better. in this city after regulating opening times back and forth, up and down. So the way to regulate it, I have absolutely no faith in it. Personally, I'm actually more concerned that people can choose for themselves when they want to go out and when they want to go home.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e355	So the line change is over. As far as the President can read from the vote, there are proposals here from the Progress Party. Will the representative Nesvik address the proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e360	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e367	The representative Nesvik then mentioned the proposals mentioned in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e371	Before my measured time starts to run out, I would like to be allowed to correct three errors. In the option page 5 right hand column, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are listed in two majority comments that these two parties are not behind. So I think there's a mistake in the proposition. The council gets to correct me if that's not the case. The proposition on page 13 of the right hand column reads: ‘The main objective of the project support is to create alternative incomes for farmers who currently serve drugs, as well as to motivate residents to use drugs.’ I suppose the word 'not' has fallen out here, but if not, I will already report a reply to the Council of State. When the Government presents an action plan to reduce the use of drugs, this is important not least because the use of a single drug — alcohol — is our main single cause of health problems and social problems. And that's hard, because the use of just this drug is legally and socially accepted in wide circles. The significant damage caused by alcohol to individuals and society must therefore be countered in a way other than by a ban. This isn't easy. Alcohol and other drugs establish their suffocating roofs precisely because they are drugs, they create addiction, and they seem to be addictive. As in all other health work, we also need to prevent and treat in this area. And as in other health work, prevention is better than treatment, better for individuals and for society. The Government’s action plan aims to reduce the use of drugs. In the case of alcohol, the objective is limited to limiting the harm, but in the case of drug policy, the objective is a society free from drug abuse. Because the alcohol is numerically the totally dominant drug, I want to put the emphasis on this one in the following. Reduced use is a sensible measure, as there is a clear link between alcohol-related use, abuse and harm. At the same time, there is also a clear link between availability and use and abuse. Availability in this context includes, inter alia: physical availability — the practical ability to obtain alcohol, as well as the economic availability, determined by the level of prices. The link between availability and harm is a justification for restrictions in drug policy, and international research has shown that price and availability regulation is the most effective means of achieving lower total consumption. But restrictions alone are not enough. Restrictions will not be understood or accepted without knowledge or attitudes. As a result, attitudes and information on the adverse effects of drugs are a necessary part of the overall picture. The Government’s action plan covers a wide range of fields and includes both restrictions and awareness-raising activities. In the prevention work, the government emphasises that early onset and high consumption of cigarettes and alcohol are today one of the strongest signs that young people are at risk of using other drugs. At the same time, children of parents with drug problems are more vulnerable than others to becoming drug addicts themselves, and home is perhaps the most important venue for shaping children and young people’s relationships with drugs. The government is therefore on a safe basis when it sets out as a target for a more offensive drug policy to reduce total alcohol consumption and the misuse of illicit drugs, and to increase knowledge and attention to the relationship between the use and misuse of different drugs. It will also work to increase the initial age of alcohol use and to strengthen negative attitudes towards drug use and alcohol abuse, as well as to work towards better and more effective treatment, aftercare and aftercare for drug users. Government strategies include cooperation with home, school and leisure activities in awareness-raising work, mobilisation of voluntary forces, organisations and the youth cultural environment, as well as municipalities, local police and other local communities. It is important that the Government has provided for a long-term perspective of action, as well as long-term problems. This requires knowledge and experience, but also youth action. The abstinence organisations have both – and have shown it in practice! I consider that attention should be paid to the significant health damage associated with alcohol use. The large numbers in this context are not due to a few large consumers, but to the much larger number of moderate consumers. I have noticed that the Norwegian Medical Association points to the concern that the alcohol industry is marketing especially to children and young people through sponsorship of sporting events. We're in here at a core point. There are huge economic interests behind the drug industry. And it has many accomplices. Sometimes this can be curious, such as: when a Norwegian doctor in a trade journal dictates false Bible quotations in order to substantiate the claim that alcohol has a positive health effect. I would also quote here the Medical Association, which says: ‘It is therefore necessary to strongly warn against the use of a popular and highly unhealthy media production of any health-positive effect as an argument for the liberalisation of alcohol policy. Also in the research literature that finds that moderate alcohol consumption can have a preventative effect on, for example, alcohol consumption. heart attack, it is very clearly warned against an increase in alcohol consumption by the individual or by the population as a whole. The negative effects on public health will far exceed any positive effects.» We are here at a paradox: users pay in part in the form of fees, many in the form of health damage. And for society as a whole, alcohol is likely to be a huge under-industry in the order of tens of billions of dollars per year. years. At the same time, there are those who benefit from producing substances that are harmful to health. It must therefore be a challenge in the widest possible range to get the profit motive away from alcohol production and placing on the market. The moderately restrictive Norwegian alcohol policy combined with awareness-raising measures has been relatively widespread, and has been successful in terms of low alcohol consumption in Norway compared to other countries. I now look to my amazement that the Workers' Party is laying down an increasingly alcohol-liberalist line and creating a majority together with the Advance Party and the Right for more wine monopolies, self-service on wine monopoly and wine donation on domestic air travel. So when we now deal with an action plan to reduce the use of drugs, the contribution of these parties is one and only one measure that will increase the availability and, consequently, the use of alcohol. In addition, it also appears that this is urgent, with the words ‘fastest’ and ‘immediate’ remaining in the proposals of the parties. These parties therefore agree with the objective of reducing the use of drugs, but only come up with proposals that work in the opposite direction. While it's been a measure of keeping a certain ceiling on the number of wine monopoly sales, the new line is to require a minimum close to cost what it's going to cost, as it's called. As is known, many services are in the process of being closed in the districts due to lack of profitability. It would be strange, to put it mildly, if we were to have schools, shops, post offices, etc. for economic reasons, while subsidising, where appropriate, the sale of wine monopoles by the State because of the adoption of a minimum figure for such sales by the majority of the population. I hope that the rapporteur's clear indication that such sales will be economically profitable will guide us in this regard. It says as far as I can remember, nothing about the setting, but I think it is an important point to take with me. Nevertheless, this seems to be a strange form of district policy. And it doesn't make any sense to claim that you are in favour of reducing the use of drugs while in practice opening up the taps you can. It just doesn't keep water.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e419	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e422	The representative Næss showed in his post to a doctor who he thought had used the Bible completely erroneously, so now the representative is to receive a Bible quotation, and that is Paul's first letter to Timothy, where he writes: ‘Do not drink only water, but use some wine for your stomach and because you are so often ill.’ – It's in the Bible. So then the representative has a quote he can look up. My question to the representative Næss: Does the representative see it as a problem that more and more people buy their alcoholic products via illegal channels, such as smuggling and home burning? This is also a type of crime that finances another type of crime. What will the representative Noess do with this problem, or will he just hide behind the fact that prices and availability are important areas? Will the representative Naess address this problem, that because of the high charges, people are dealing with this kind of product via other channels?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e434	It is Luke’s evangelist who is the doctor of the New Testament, not Paul! His advice to Timothy must be seen as an expression of the general practitioner’s view of the health effects of alcohol 2,000 years ago. But over the 2,000 years that have passed, there has been some progress in the field of medicine, and I think we should remember that and not take this advice too seriously from the representative of Nesvik. We know more about the adverse effects of alcohol than Paul did. I agree with the representative Nesvik that there is a problem with the illegal circulation of alcohol, and I see this pragmatically. For me, the ideal level of charges is a level of charges that leads to a price that is such that the total consumption is the lowest possible. In other words, if the level of charges and therefore the level of prices are so high that it leads to an increase in total consumption because it encourages more illegal consumption, the level of charges has an adverse effect. Given the clear link between the total consumption and the level of injury, the objective must be to have a level of charges and thus a level of prices leading to a minimum of total consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e441	The representative Næss said that the Workers' Party's fraction had no other suggestions than the proposal for self-serving poles, serving wine on domestic air travel, selling beers with an alcoholic strength of more than 7 % vol. on the sale of the Vinmonopole. The Storting has previously decided to serve wine on domestic flights, and I understand that there is a unanimous committee that concludes that one should also be able to sell beer with an alcoholic strength of more than 7 % vol. at the outlets of the Vinmonopole. There must therefore be the question of a test mechanism with self-operated poles to which the representative Neess focuses. But the Labour Party does have other proposals as well, and an attitude to the problems which are at least as offensive as the Government's proposals and attitudes, and my question to the Christian People's Party's representative must be: if the result of the test system with self-serving poles is that turnover increases at the expense of reduced illegal consumption, must this be a positive measure? This is also something you can evaluate after two years of trial. Does the representative come to such a conclusion? The Christian People's Party has stressed, at a number of previous conditions, that, among other things: price policy is very important to prevent increased consumption of alcohol. The budgetary agreement with the Party of Advances and the Right has resulted in lower taxes on alcohol, thus making products more reasonable from 1 January 1999. This is the first time in a long time we get such a reduction. Does the Christian People's Party feel well about such a development, and is this conversion a start to a trend that will continue?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e448	It is not entirely correct when the representative of Skogholt says that the Stortinget has decided that wine should be served on domestic air travel. The decision is based on the fact that the ministry has been given the opportunity to authorise the serving of wine on domestic air travel. With regard to self-serviced poles, I can't really see that there is a need for any experimentation about this in Norway. Studies carried out in Sweden have shown that turnover is increasing in such a context, and there is also a general experience in other areas of self-service. There is no particular reason why sales should not be increased by pole sales when self-service is introduced, when such an increase occurs in other contexts. These attempts have been made in Sweden, but I don't really think the Swedes are so different from us that it is necessary to repeat this in Norway. The similarity should be eye-catching. Now the Swedes are also beginning to ski again, so that the differences should not mean that it was necessary to repeat the attempts that have shown increased turnover at self-operated poles. With regard to the changes in the taxes on alcohol resulting from the State budget agreement, they are not so large, and they are also in a price group that hardly has the full influence of alcohol policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e457	The right has great respect for the work of the abstinence movement. It doesn't require us to be total obsessive, but that the most possible situations in life should be non-alcoholic. Treatment of drug users is important and necessary, but it does not significantly reduce drug use. We think it's just a successful prevention strategy that can help. To the right, a border should be established between public and voluntary organisations and should contribute. In the right, it believes that long-term preventive action should be taken on a voluntary basis rather than on a continuous basis of individual public campaigns. Voluntary organisations have greater opportunities than municipalities and other public bodies to succeed in involving young people and parents in raising their debut age in order to enjoy alcohol and to make more situations free of alcohol. I understand that the Christian People's Party and the Right agree that prevention measures, efforts at voluntary action and increasing support for non-governmental organisations are important. That is why I am both amazed and surprised that the Christian People's Party could not join the Right Commentary in the setting that is just about this point, and I can imagine asking the representative Nose about the reason.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e466	I am not quite sure if I know exactly what section of the setting the representative is referring to.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e471	The very last!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e478	But I can confirm that there is considerable agreement between the Christian People's Party and the Right on the importance of the efforts of private and idealist organisations both in terms of prevention and in terms of the treatment of drug damage. Drawing up border crossings here in this area I think is very difficult, because this is an area that is suitable for interaction. It is an area suitable for cooperation between public and private, and we clearly see that in some areas this is best done by private, in other areas the best of the public, and in others one depends on cooperation between them. I think that will be what will happen in the future too, that the ideal organisations might be easier than public initiatives, come with innovation, come with the new ideas to come. They usually meet with a little bit of skepticism and a little bit of disbelief, but then it turns out that this works in practice, and then hopefully we'll come after. That is what, in my opinion, must be the model of long-term cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e483	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e487	It's a little remarkable that the Christian People's Party has not joined the Right Note, which is the very last in the position. Yes, not everyone has joined it, is really strange, but perhaps especially Christian People's Party, because we point out there that increased efforts to prevent it are very important. Of course, the treatment of addicts is important and necessary, but it does not mean that we have to reduce the number of drug users. Recruitment to the environment can be the same. Only a successful prevention strategy can prevent this. That is why we also believe that it is important to make a borderline between what is best for the public and what is voluntary, and should contribute. We do not have so much faith that there are constant campaigns in municipal or state activities. They may have their mission, but we believe more in giving volunteer organizations greater leeway, greater opportunity to get in touch with parents and young people, because here they have an opportunity that is not public. It is important that prevention measures are more long-term than they currently have, because today projects have to be applied for. It is difficult to get long-term preventive work to go over more than two to three years. If you succeed in raising your debut age, if you succeed in making more situations in your life free of sleep, it's by giving the volunteer organizations some leeway. They are easier to get in touch with young people and parents than public offices and agencies have. It's important, I think, that you don't do what I have the impression that both the Christian People's Party and others in the majority sometimes think about, that's to look at the voluntary organizations as actors of the public. If public authorities are to target voluntary work, they are on the verge of doing so. In that case, voluntary organisations no longer have freedom and independence in relation to public policy, and they should have it. At least that's the right view, and I also have the impression that there are current views in the voluntary environment, both in the abstinence movement and other parts of the voluntary work. Today's debate is basically both a debate on drug policy and alcohol policy. Fortunately, there is a broad consensus on drugs policy in this country – there is agreement on all the main instruments, and the Right is firmly committed to our main objective, namely that we want Norway to become a drug-free society. We do not want any liberalisation or legalisation of the policy, but we support and want the fastest possible nationwide offer of methadone treatment for long-term addicts. When this is said, as usual, I would almost say, alcohol policy is the greatest interest, or at least the biggest fight. There are some people who would think that today's attitude is a paradox, because despite the fact that we are all concerned with reducing alcohol consumption and, in particular, reducing abuse, almost all of the Committee's proposals for decisions go in a liberalising direction. It concerns self-service poles, the authorisation to sell beers with an alcoholic strength of more than 7 pst. in Poland, and it is the fact that the Minister of Social Affairs now has to allow domestic flights to serve wine. In addition, the Right Party and the Advance Party have also proposed that wine should be sold outside the Vinmonopolet, in their own shops or in the retail trade after municipal authorisation. How can we explain this paradox that, at the same time as we propose a more liberal practice, we want and believe that this should contribute to a reduction in alcohol consumption? Well, the explanation is actually that more than right have realized that our traditional alcohol policy, the traditional means, has failed. It's probably been successful before, but it's no longer, and you have to be willing to take it inward. Alcohol consumption is increasing in our country despite the fact that we have high prices and charges, despite high age limits, despite relatively still short opening hours and getting outlets for the Vinmonopole. We have believed that all of this should limit availability and thus reduce total consumption. The opposite has happened. In other words, it has to be considered that this strategy in today's society is a failure. Today we have a large and increasing registered consumption. We have smuggling, home burning and growing abuse problems among young people, especially under 20 years of age. In fact, today there are adult, law-abiding manner-keepers for whom the Wine Monopoly restricts the availability of alcohol. We have to realize that the old tools don't keep up and try to get us some new ones. The position of the wine monopoly as an alcohol policy instrument has also been significantly reduced and weakened in recent years. As late as 1993 it was 56 p.m. by the people concerned with maintaining the monopoly of wine as it is today. In 1995, the proportion had fallen to 46 p.m., and today there is a majority, in fact also in the West, which is a traditional abstinence, to allow wine sales in the shops. Right – and more, I think – concludes that the time of reform and monopoly policy now has to be definitely out. The time has come to bet on personal responsibility as the main instrument of alcohol policy. Political regulations can actually work against their purpose, even if they are well-intentioned, and I think they are. But regulation signals that people less need to take responsibility for their own personal behavior. Norwegian alcohol policy should, of course, continue to regulate availability, enforce the rules for selling and donating in cash, and we will continue to have high international charges for alcoholic beverages, even if we agree, even the government parties, to reduce the charges to counter smuggling and home burning, in the foreseeable future. But we believe that in such a situation there is no reason for us to have a wine monopoly that has the exclusive right to sell wine. However, we can maintain restrictions on availability, on opening hours and on age limits even if we do not have a monopoly that is allowed to be exclusive in the sale of wine. Therefore, through municipal funds, we want to open this up in our own shops or in the grocery store. As Sonja Sjøli said instead, Right has great respect for today's abstinence movement, and so far also for the abstinence movement of the past. But like several parties, today's abstinence movement has realized that we are now living at a different time where we have to look for new instruments. We take seriously that alcohol abuse is still one of our biggest social policy problems. Persons with alcohol-related injuries and diseases account for thousands of hospital days each year, not because of a relatively few addicts, but because many of us ordinary consumers drink too much too often. It is our consumption that has led to a doubling of total consumption since the war. That's why we all have to take responsibility for trying to reduce it. But we in the Right no longer believe in such a goal as the one we are now about to put behind us, and that has been a failure – 25 pst. alcohol consumption must be reduced by the year 2000. It's proved impossible. But I don't think, as the majority would like, that a new objective for a new number of years will be the most appropriate instrument. Greater wealth and an improved personal economy are major causes of increasing alcohol consumption. Fortunately, more people have the opportunity to travel to other countries, with different drinking habits than here at home. This is clearly one of the reasons for the falling upsurge in the wine monopoly, and, as I said, the Right wants an honest and realistic alcohol policy. If we are to succeed in reducing alcohol consumption, the strategy needs to be reformed – from bans and out-of-date restrictions to incentives to transition to low-alcohol drinks and increased focus on alcohol consumption, for example. when driving, pregnant women, working as a child and young people, in sport and in the workplace. We have seen that the peoples of the entire Western world are increasingly concerned with taking care of health and safety. Consumption in many countries is moving towards more low-alcohol alternatives. It is this positive development that we should encourage through alcohol policy. The challenge is that a transition to more alcoholic beverages replaces old drinking habits instead of adding up. That's not obvious, but that's the goal. I don't think there's any way back, because most people no longer think that we have a state guardianship in terms of poor availability, limited range of goods and sky-high prices and taxes. That's why the only way we can go forward is to stimulate people's self-interest in keeping a low alcohol consumption for health and safety reasons. Only in this way can we have a realistic alcohol policy that can have the hope of gaining popular support, as the case-rapporteur was also concerned about. In the end, I'd like to take up a little bit of detail, but a little bit of detail that's surprised some of us. We read in the newspaper last week that the rule of the monopoly of wine will now change its new year's margins. That is the background for the majority comment in the position behind the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Right and the SV. This conversion will result in the cheapest and also some of the most expensive wines becoming more expensive, while the intermediate group will receive a slightly lower price. We see this as contrary to the Storting's wish to have a transition – and encourage it through price policy – from spiritism to alcoholic beverages. We also believe that the margin conversion planned by the Vinmonopolet will increase the difference in alcohol prices between Norway and Sweden. The goal is the exact opposite. And as if this wasn't enough, we had a financial debate yesterday, where it was decided for the first time in a long, long time to lower the fees on wine. If the monopoly of wine, through the conversion of the margin system, would contribute to the abolition of this, it would be contrary to the stated wish of the Storting. That is why the majority of the Committee on the Monopoly of Wine is asking for a review of this conversion. I have to honestly say that it's also a little bit difficult to figure out what the wine monopoly is really after, and what will be the real consequence of this conversion. I have received a letter from the CEO of the Vinmonopolet, stating that this conversion will lead to the loss of 12 million in the Vinmonopolet next year. kr in income. It is quite incomprehensible to me, and it is also not documented in the letter or elsewhere that I know how they have come up with this. How can it be, how can it be possible, if the cheapest and the most traded goods become more expensive, that the wine monopoly loses $12 million? kr in income? This is not related. Why would a company such as the Vinmonopolet, without any supplier of goods having complained that the costs do not cover the handling of the products, go voluntarily to a conversion of the margin system, which leads to overmeasurement of the company's losses of 12 million. kr in income? Here there must be owls in the moss. And this is the background for the majority asking the Vinmonopole to re-evaluate the advance system. Let's not now make sure that yesterday's decision in Stortingen to lower the fees for cheaper goods, so that we get a transition to more low-alcohol goods to reduce smuggling and home burning, is not implemented. Let's not see that, through the governing decisions of the Vinmonopole, we're going in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e536	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e539	In the vote, a majority has underlined the importance of abstinence, among others: in sports arenas in connection with sporting activities. This is a note that is not supported by the Right and Advance Party. Is it true that the Right is so that alcohol can be used in sports arenas during sports activities? I noticed that the representative Høegh mentioned abstinence in sports, but does this also apply to spectators during sports?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e544	The most important thing for the Right is that we do something about what we can do about, that we encourage the sport to be free of sleep, I had almost said in all the arenas. But the most important thing is that athletes themselves are drug-free, and that they are working to be the good role models that they should be and that they are. That's why I'm glad that the Right Party got the majority in the Committee on a somewhat different wording than you had at first intended, to limit it to want the freedom of the sports arenas. The sportsmen themselves are the most important thing here. That's what we want to put the search light on. With regard to the specificities of the sports arenas, we believe that you might need to be a little careful, so that you do not get into the situation that the social minister was in a few months ago, where you had to grant exemptions from the provisions in order to secure large sporting events in this country. That's why we didn't want to be in that formulation about the sports arenas, and I would also like to say, as Nesvik said earlier today, that sports arenas can also be used for things other than sports events. That's why we're not in the special comment. But let there be no doubt: the right has no desire for alcohol advertising to be associated with sport, but we trust that sport itself will take this into account. We are concerned, and we are also aware of this, that Norway is going hard in international terms to try to get international agreements that restrict or make alcohol sponsorship of sporting events impossible, because we agree that it does not in principle belong well together, to say it carefully. But that Norway should prevent or make it impossible to get large sporting events here before we have international rules, we are not followers of.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e553	I understand Annelise Höegh's last remark that sportsmen should be restless, but not necessarily the audience. That was interesting, if I understood her correctly. That's the last comment on the Right to which you're missing agreement. It's written on the right so that I can't be on it, because it's operating with the abstinence movement and "us others". Then I am the abstinence movement and not the ‘us others’. In addition, there are moments of limitations in public efforts in this note that I will not entirely support. But this is not necessary when you have been excluded in advance. The right, together with the Progress Party, says wise words about the relationship between high alcohol consumption and the extent of health damage and social problems, and that alcohol-related injuries and diseases are mainly caused by ordinary consumers. The right also says that there is ‘our consumption that has led to a doubling of total consumption since the war’. The Progress Party does not agree with this remark, but I do not think that it is the Right Members alone who are responsible for doubling the alcohol consumption. The right-hand side clarifies the positive in low alcohol consumption, and I'm glad that. On the other hand, the Progress Party and the Right want the level of taxes on alcohol and tobacco to be reduced so that it would not be profitable to smuggle or sell domestic fuel illegally. I assume that this applies to all sales of homeburn. At the same time, you want wine in the grocery stores. What does the Right think will be the consequence in terms of alcohol consumption if the price level is to be at the level of smuggling and home burning, while at the same time entering the grocery stores?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e564	I think Are Næss takes his mouth a little too full when he almost gives us the intention that the fees should be reduced to the level of smugglers. In fact, there is nothing about it, rather the opposite. It says in our remarks, and I said it at least in my post, that the Right will reduce the fees, but that in the foreseeable future we will have a level of charges that is still high in the international context. So I don't quite understand why Naess is taking this up. In fact, the government parties – including the Christian People's Party – and the Right and Advance Party agree that we should reduce the fees. We have not thought – and I do not think the abstinence movement, which is the father of this proposal, has intended – that it should stop with the 5 pst. the tax return we receive for the next year. This is, of course, a point in not having such a marked difference between the alcohol prices in this country and in our neighbouring countries, because it clearly leads to increased smuggling. So we don't think the charges will go down to the smuggler level. We believe that permitting the sale of wine at the shops will lead to people drinking more legal goods and drinking more wine and reducing their consumption of smugglers, which are much stronger goods – alcohol, for example. Otherwise, I understood that Are Næss thought it was interesting that the Right would have restless athletes, but not necessarily a restless audience. Yeah, what's so interesting about that, I don't know, but it might come from that, unlike Are Næss, not all Right-People are abstinences. We think it is more important to be drug-free in specific situations, for example. in sport. It's not as important when you're an audience, but to behave neatly and properly, you have to do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e571	From the ideological point of view of Right, it's not hard to understand the logic of Annelise Höegh's argument. It appears to be consistent — up to one point at a time, and it is based on the consequences of such a policy in relation to the consumption of the population. The right here sketches with a more liberal alcohol policy, with the sale of wine in shops without any special angles of incidence associated with it with opening times and at all that the alcohol is generally made more available, coincides with a so-called continental drinking pattern. All studies show per the date on which such alcohol consumption leads to an increase in consumption over time. Drinking is more common in European countries than has been done in Norway. I would therefore like to ask Annelise Höegh: Does Annelise Höegh think that the approach she is drawing on is possible and that Right wants to achieve, at the same time, a reduction in the consumption of alcohol in the Norwegian population, which is already lower than it is on the continent, when we are going to approach the continent more and more in a spirit of drinking? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e576	The answer to the question is almost yes, because no items here are static. As you can see from what I said, and I also believe from the comments of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, there are also changes in Europe, which we should not fail to notice. People in all parts of the Western world, I think I said, take seriously and take inward that one should take care of one's health, one should take care of one's quality of life, one must first enjoy alcohol, do it with caution and in moderate forms. It is basically such an attitude The Right encourages, both here to countries and otherwise through our cooperation parties in other countries. We have seen, as the Christian People's Party's comments express, a happy reduction, for example. in Italy, without having our restrictions. So even though they have an accessibility that we can only dream about, I would almost say, alcohol consumption has gone down considerably. It's because people take responsibility for themselves. We no longer believe and have seen our strategy fail in today's world, where people don't want to find themselves in restrictions like they did before. Then we have to find new tools. Then we must appeal to personal responsibility. I understand that a representative of SV is not so concerned about it. He has more faith in monopoly and guardianship by the state than that people are actually able to see their own interest in having moderate alcohol consumption. That's why it's not only in my opinion, but also in the Right's view, that we don't want any continental drinking pattern in the sense that we're going to take a knee to lunch and maybe one before we go out on the road to get to work – not at all. But we want legal goods to be available. We hope that it will contribute to a transition to weaker alcoholic beverages that will reduce total alcohol consumption, even though more drinkers drink wine more often than before. If they don't drink spirits, we'll have a drop in alcohol consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e581	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e584	Saksvoorar Einar Olav Skogholt spoke to the newspaper Folket nr. 44 from 30 October this year: ‘The action plan is considered to be of little controversy and therefore the major discussions on what is there are not expected’. It is possible that the representative of Skogholt had not expected a special debate today, because he is now representing a majority in Stortinget together with the Right and the Advance Party for a rather extensive liberalisation of Norwegian alcohol policy. The list that shows this is a long one. I'll briefly mention some examples. The first point relates to support for the Vinmonopolet’s desire to try out self-preservation at some outings, despite the fact that studies related to self-denial shops in Sweden may indicate an increase in alcohol consumption among people. Another point is the score of the creation of at least 40 new pole rooms. The consequence of this is that, in principle, an unlimited number of polar rooms can be created. A third point is that alcoholic drinks should not be health-friendly. There is a clear contradiction between the labelling of health hazards in the case of smoking. As the fourth and final point, I will mention the donation of wine on domestic flights. This may not be a contribution to reducing alcohol use. This is not a new policy from the Progress Party and the Right, but it is unfortunately from the Labour Party, which ensures a majority for the liberalisation of alcohol policy in an action plan to reduce the use of drugs. In People's No. 47 from November this year, Skogholt stated: ‘... the objective of the alcohol policy must be to reduce total consumption and increase the initial age.’ This is bad with the Labour Party's new line of alcohol policy, which I think is clearly moving towards liberalisation. Swedish Social Democrats are much more offensive to work. The Swedish government has been challenged on the restrictive line of the alcohol policy after membership of the EU. Instead of ‘buying’ the alcohol liberals’ arguments, the Swedish government has received contributions from the European Commission to show that it pays off with a restrictive alcohol policy. The research project to be carried out by Swedish and Finnish researchers will study the relationship between restrictions and public health in all EU countries over the past 50 years. Researchers shall identify all factors affecting alcohol consumption: age restrictions, turnover levels, opening hours, advertising rules, per million legislation, unregistered consumption of alcohol and the like. Sydsvenska Dagbladet writes that the idea of such a research report is to propose a common EU policy to reduce alcohol consumption, among others. through higher taxes and stricter age limits. A large Danish study shows that children in Denmark encounter drug use at a very low age with their parents, and that their children are against drug use. Researchers have studied the relationship between the ages of 6 and 16. Most surprising is the fact that children are negative to their parents’ use of alcohol, and that they themselves do not want to use alcohol when they grow up. Young people in both Norway and Denmark change their grip on alcohol as they move to a phase more defined as adults. According to Hilde Pape in 1997, high consumption of alcohol is a feature of the youth phase in the 17 to 24 age group. Several studies have shown the strong relationship between children who have had alcohol at home in their parents, and how much the average consumption is when these children become young people. A majority in the Stortinget, the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right, are in favour of reducing the effects of alcohol policy, reducing taxes and reducing restrictions. More and more of the alcohol policy will depend on voluntary organisations, holding campaigns and to the seventh and last individual choice. It seems self-contradictory that the party that says that they want to reduce alcohol consumption and increase their initial age for alcohol use and are for alcohol freedom in traffic, in employment, child labour and youth, implements such a wide-ranging liberalisation of alcohol policy as we are witnessing today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e620	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e624	I would like to ask the representative Ringstad to comment on some aspects. As far as I understood, the representative, Ringstad, was opposed to lowering the taxes on alcohol. I would like to ask the representative to comment that the fees are now lowered by the agreement entered into by the Centre Party with the Right and the Advance Party. I would also ask the representative to comment on the fact that half of the consumption of alcohol in this country comes from illicit trafficking. I would like to ask if it might be a bit of a background for the Senterung judgment to propose that a wine monopoly should be established in each municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e633	When the representative, Gunhild Eyegen, based on what I said, made the claim that I have spoken in the direction that the fees should be lowered, I believe the Gunhild Eye has listened a little foolishly. I enumerate a part of the elements for which the Labour Party has joined with the Right and the Advance Party, for which I am involved in the process of liberalising alcohol policy – there is also a reduction in charges. I didn't say anything about my personal posture or the centre party's posture. I am quite clear that in the agreements made in connection with the budget, the Centre Party is also involved in lowering the fees in relation to what was in the government budget proposal – just to clarify it. When it concerns the relationship with the large part of the consumption that comes from illegal sales, I don't think anyone has any problem admitting that there is a problem. But there are probably no simple solutions to change that either. The debate in the past has also shown that no one has the right solutions. Even the Right said that they realize that our charging policy will lead to that in the overcoded future charges will be at a level that does not give us prices in line with what illegal sales can do. We have to be aware of this relationship, and we have to be constantly looking for the good solutions to prevent so much of it from really coming from illegal translation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e645	In a note in today's position from the Social Committee, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV write the following: ‘The members of the Committee of the Christian People’s Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left point out that, for the period 1999-2002, according to the national plan adopted for the Vinmonopoly, it should be opened in order to create up to 40 new pole sales.’ This is right. It is in the country plan that has been presented. But here's a change of size. In the context of the State budget of the year, the size decided that the word ‘until’ is replaced by ‘at least’. My question to the representative Ringstad is: When will the Central Party find out with the Stortinget's wish to create at least 40 and not up to 40 new pole sales, which you try again? Then I have another question for the representative Ringstad. The Norwegian people are closest to electoral missions to our EU-Naboland Sweden these days and have done so for a long time. Products are traded just above the Swedish border for more than DKK 6 billion for the current year. Here it applies to alcohol, tobacco, meat products and something else. Alcohol and tobacco account for a large proportion of these products, and this is due only to the level of taxes in Norway. Indeed, it could be seen that on the day that EU Member States lowered their prices, trade increased dramatically. What will the Center Party do with this problem? Or is it a goal for the Central Party that as much choice as possible to Sweden as possible to make their purchases?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e663	I want to start with the last one first. I assume that none of the parties represented in this room will have the aim of having Sweden's maximum electoral speed to act. But since there are different policies on the Swedish and Norwegian sides of the border, we have seen over time that a certain border trade will always be. And the border trade – by the name of the representative Nesvik many kinds of goods – has increased over time our trade that has gone both ways. If we focus on the products that the debate today is on, namely alcoholic beverages, it is clear that Norway has had a right level of fees, which has led to a certain level of cross-border trade. As I mentioned in my article, the Swedish are now in the process of a research project that will look at how charging policies and some other conditions affect alcohol consumption. I also thought it might be interesting to wait and see what they're coming up with. Otherwise I am of the opinion that Norway must pursue its policy. Of course, we'll see what neighbouring countries do, but we have to stand for our own policies. So when it comes to the first part of the question, whether it should be up to 40 new pole halls or at least 40: the center party, together with the other two government parties, is of the opinion that we should have a certain direction when it comes to the number of pole halls. It's not a desire from these parties' side that we should release it completely freely. And the comments from the majority today can just be interpreted so that it's clear, it's just about making the most possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e676	The representative Ringstad pointed out that I went to the newspaper ‘People’ No. 44 had said that there would probably be little debate on the Government's proposal for an action plan, that it was not controversial. And I'm actually still talking about that. It is, of course, the position on this issue that has created a debate here in the Chamber today, and not the action plan of the Government and the Minister for Social Affairs. So said representative Ringstad three-four concrete measures mentioned in the setting: serving wine on domestic aircraft, selling beers with an alcoholic strength of more than 7 % vol. on the sales of the wine monopoly and a test scheme with a self-service pole. On 15 April 1997, the representatives of the Central Party of Odelstinget voted to open the market to serve wine on domestic aircraft. What is the reason why the Center Party has a different position on that matter today? Moreover, I still believe that some of our main alcohol policy objectives are to reduce consumption and increase the initial age. The representative then shows Ringstad to an EU research project. Yes, I think that is an affordable project that is interesting to follow. But if we look at Swedish alcohol policy, I believe we have nothing to be ashamed of in Norway in view of our own alcohol policy. The Swedes have a system of self-serving pole sales. They have much more reasonable alcoholic prices than what we have. When the representative Ringstad also mentions high age limits and the price of alcohol in view of this EU research project, the impossible representative Ringstad may feel that we should raise our age limits and increase our taxes on alcohol products.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e687	In listing the points I brought, the representative of Skogholt was in danger of bringing a little more than what I had done, but we can let that go. I am fully aware of what the Centre Party has done and voted for before. In the case of the provision of wine on aircraft, the Ministry has been given a power to assess the application for such a permit, but there has been no requirement for this to be carried out. So we have to distinguish between having an opening for it, which is to be evaluated on a case-by-case basis, and making an order for all applications to be met. There's a difference. When it comes to the government action plan, with which the representative of Skogholt started, it is clear that it does not contain the proposals for liberalisation that are included in the setting. And that's what I'm aiming for when I say that it will affect the Government's action plan when the setting leads to liberalisation far beyond what the Government has set up.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e696	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e699	This has been a debate that has essentially been about alcohol. At the outset, I would like to mention that it is clear that a drug plan also deals with the use of other drugs — I am thinking of drugs, which we see as a growing and significant problem in Norway, as it has become in other European countries and also worldwide. What I am very pleased about when you see that there are so many proposals that go towards liberalising alcohol policy is that there are no parallel arguments about liberalising drug policy. It has been observed – I have registered that one of the representatives of the Progress Party earlier called for the legalisation of, among other things. Hazg. If the whole approach to drugs is to make it more liberal in order to reduce the problems, it must be made clear that all experience from other countries suggests that it is not. I'm not going to go into this so much with drug use, but with regard to the use of methadone in relation to drug users, when the Social Committee was travelling to China and Hong Kong, I registered that they have interesting research results. It may well be that there is a common recognition in the Storting and the Social Committee that there may have been too much sceptical about the use of methadone in the case of drug users, for the results they referred to there were alarming. You should probably go into it even more thoroughly than what we did in the social committee. However, it seemed that in Hong Kong almost no deaths were seen among drug users, at least not among those who had entered the methadone project, so it is obvious that we should develop knowledge in this area and see whether more use could be made of methadone to prevent difficult and debilitating drug use and to increase the level of function of hard drug users. When it comes to the actual alcohol debate, it gives me associations to a book that I have read with great joy – and that I have read several times. It's Alice in the fairytale of Lewis Carroll. When Alice meets the Cheshire cat and asks which way she's going to take, ask the Cheshire cat quite naturally back: which way would you have thought, then? When Alice says it's going to be the same, and the Cheshire cat answers, it doesn't matter which way you go. You're tempted to make a synthesis out of it, a way to think about it that comes out in this room: tell me where to go, and I'll show you the way. What you're doing here is always referring to attitudes in the population that change in relation to the alcohol policy, on which you almost unisonally say among all parties that yes, we also get to change our attitudes in line with people's attitudes. It is clear that the interaction between politicians' perceptions of what is a valid path and the attitudes of the population is a close interaction. And it's clear that you could imagine that you replaced the whole party machine here and said, "Let's get some kind of TV 2 gallop that tells what the people at any time mean, and then we can control it along with it." However, in the SV’s view, there is a totally infertile approach. Clearly, the alcohol policy we are about to adopt should be knowledge-based, and we need to put in place tools that we think can have an effect. And I have to say that even though SV in many areas here actually agrees with some of the instruments, among other things. experimental schemes with self-service at some of the selected wine monopolies proposed must be used as a starting point for finding out what the effect of this is. I think that is the weakness of the majority proposal that comes forward here. It's a first step on the way to making all the wine monopolies self-serving. With regard to the proposals that could otherwise have been made to a joint committee – it has been said that the department can open up the possibility of serving wine on aircraft, and it will be served wine – it seems quite unnecessary to instruct the Government with terms such as ‘fastest’ and ‘immediate’, and that does not mean that a single committee is involved. You don't get an SV on it, because what you're doing is not a euphoria policy debate. You make it a kind of debate where you try to find words and expressions to humiliate the government, so that you can give them a few things. There may not be much to the Right and the Advance Party, but they are of course extremely pleased that the Workers' Party is dealing with these kinds of formulations, because these two parties get the policies they have long wanted. We want a more liberal alcohol policy in which the instruments of eutrophication policy are subordinated to it. Finally, I would like to address the proposal that Mr SV has made.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e716	The representative of Ballo has taken up the proposal he has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e721	First of all, there are a few things to clarify for the representative of Ballo: it is not the view of the Progress Party that the use of drugs should be legalised. It was a single representative who went out and said. For my part, he said, so it is not the view of the Advancement Party. I can assure Ballo that. At least I could never agree to that. As far as the representative of Ballo was concerned, it was to give a hint to the Government in connection with the introduction of wine-serving on domestic flights that the word ‘immediate’ was not at all the case. The reason why this had to be promoted is that the Stortinget has previously stated in a decision that it should be opened for the serving of wine on domestic flights. But unfortunately the social minister stopped this, so there was no serving of wine. That is why we have found reason to promote this proposal. So to a note that the representative Ballo is in with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. It says: ‘These members believe that a lower limit on the number of wine monopolies in practice means that a political opening is given for the establishment of an unlimited number of wine monopolies’. This despite the fact that the monopoly on wine is now a separate company – an AS. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Ballo: does the representative see it as a problem that we should also be able to buy products around the districts in the usual way? Or does SV still want it to be so that when you are buying alcohol in the districts, you have to do it illegally, because it is only where the access is?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e736	: I stressed that there was one representative from the Progress Party, so I do not feel that I have said anything else in relation to the legalization of hashish. With regard to the donation of wine on aeroplanes, SV has supported, as stated in the recommendation, that the Ministry may, after obtaining the necessary opinions, grant... permission to donate beer and wine on board domestic flights. So the SV's point is that we have left the department to make that assessment. When you have to instruct in detail, you think you're going unnecessarily far. Furthermore, in relation to the wine monopoly, SV has very good faith in the wine monopoly system as a sensible approach to alcohol policy. We have always supported the establishment of more poles, but we have thought it would make sense to have a roof over it. At the moment you say that there should be a lower limit, but not an upper limit, it becomes like we write in our committee comments here, that there is no upper limit. At all times, this must be linked to the action plan, linked to other measures, so as to know the impact of these measures. The same is true in relation to self-service on the wine monopoly sales. Experience must therefore be gained from the policy of eutrophication and the alcohol policy that is being pursued before progress is made. However, if you do what the Progress Party adds to – unfortunately also partly Right – that it should be as liberal as possible, as minimum control as possible, it means removing the possibility of state intervention. It is also the case that both the Advance Party and the Right want a reduction in the wine monopoly system, and then it may be a little strange to make a big point that you should have the best outlets, while at the same time you would have preferred to see that the scheme might have gone away, at least that you let other players in parallel. I would like to emphasise once again that the SV sees the wine monopoly as an essential part of the alcohol policy. We like to see more poles coming, but we want an evaluation on the way when it is established in the districts, the consequences of the drinking pattern, change in relation to smuggling, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e749	: Representative Ballo says that almost a unanimous committee could have joined the proposals. Yes, SV has done so at different conditions in the past. On 15 April 1997, they agreed to open up the provision of wine on domestic flights. The reason why this matter was raised again a year and a half after the Stortingen dealt with it is that the Council of State rejected the applications from SAS and Braathen in the summer. SV also has its own proposal to launch a pilot scheme with self-operated poles and calls for an evaluation in the majority proposal. We have said that we want to evaluate the scheme after two years of trial. And in a debate in the Storting in June this year, where we discussed the marketing non-discrimination of wine and beer products, there was also the question of selling beer of strength over 7 % by volume up to debate. Then there were different views on that matter. Among other things, the representative Ballo was very concerned. Now that I can see, no one disagrees with this. But the government parties and the SV do not want to vote in favour of the proposal. They're just saying that they're taking the tape from ESA to intelligence. I believe that I have recorded earlier in the debate that there were people who talked about pursuing an independent policy and did not let themselves be influenced from abroad in terms of decisions. At least there is something strange about the sale of beer with a strength of more than 7 % by volume. My question to Mr Ballo is: what does the representative, Mr Ballo, think we can do with the major problems we have with the illegal marketing of spirits, where there is now at least as much turnover outside the Polish sales as in the Polish sales?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e762	SV believes that the level of charges is now so high that it contributes to increased smuggling, and I therefore support the assessment that no increase in the fees is considered and, if necessary, over time reduces them. That's where we agree. We note with interest that the abstinence movement is involved in the same thing, and it seems that it is a recognition that – as far as I have registered – all the parties have arrived. We are also aware of the need to strengthen and develop the wine monopoly system and make it more accessible in rural areas, but this needs to be done in a sensible way and to assess the consequences in the process. As we have pointed out in a comment, it can't be reasonable to say that you should have a minimum number and not have a top. It's clear that somewhere is so small that there's no nutritional basis for a wine monopoly. It can therefore be found in the situation that while the Storting is almost forced to impose a certain number of establishments, it is not the operating basis for this, and yet you cannot get as many poles as this is sketched. However, it is clearly important to look at the level of charges to prevent a high level of smuggling or home burning. But I think it is exaggerated when, especially from the Progress Party, it is produced as if it were being waltzed to Sweden, or as if it were being smuggled on a large scale. As I know people, you're essentially nervous when you bring an extra bottle through customs beyond the quota you're allowed to have. In fact, I think most citizens are still law-abiding. But the fact that there has been a development in this area which is obviously unfortunate, and which needs to be looked at, is quite clear.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e771	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e774	The left will join the Government's goals and strategies to reduce the use of drugs. Many of us have a contrasting relationship with the alcohol policy and the means to limit the use. As stated in the Proposition, many people enjoy moderate alcohol use and do not see the harm easily. A restrictive alcohol policy can be felt as if it were strongly involved in the individual’s right to self-determination, in a way that we do not like. The left is not only liberal but social liberals. The consideration of others must be stronger here than the freedom of the individual. If you want to reach your target, you need to use a powerful tool. There is more than enough evidence that if one reduces the total use of drugs, the number of large consumers will also be reduced. Most of the winning crime and the crime of violence are related to drug abuse, whether alcohol or drugs. Similarly, it is well known that both social and health problems are precursors to drug use. This plan will pursue a restrictive alcohol policy, not least by strengthening the enforcement of legislation and prevention. Both are important. When it comes to reducing drug use by 25 pst. by the year 2000, this may appear unrealistic. Since this is also the goal of the WHO, it is nevertheless important that we stick to this and intensify our efforts to achieve the goal. To achieve this goal, a tool must be installed against the central arenas and situations that need to be kept unattended. The government includes association and activities with children and young people, pregnancy, sports and outdoors. I'd like to add to the working life. A lot of positive cooperation is already going on. I am also pleased with the work of intensifying the fight against drugs in our prisons. In the new psychiatry plan, increased efforts will be made in the municipalities and the school community will be strengthened. Since many drug users are also psychiatric patients, it is important that cooperation here be good. It is important, as the Committee points out, that there will be poor confidence in alcohol policy if we allow smuggling and home-burning to account for an increasing share of consumption. It must be broken down hard on both acquisition, purchase and sale of these goods. It is very important that we evaluate the measures that are being taken. Similarly, it is important to pursue research. This is in order to increase awareness of abuse and what measures seem to reduce it. We may need to take other and stronger measures if we really want to reduce drug use.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e795	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e798	I have two short questions for the representative Vihovde. Is the Left, the Liberal Party, in agreement with the Social Minister's refusal to open up wine on domestic flights, or will the Left agree to maintain access to such a service in April 1997? And is the Left opposed to opening up a test scheme with self-operated pole sales, and then evaluating the scheme after two years of probation?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e803	When it comes to the Social Minister's rejection of the applications from Braathens and SAS for the provision of air services, we see that the confidence one has shown in the Government by assessing these applications is firm. So we support the Government in this. I would like to say, as a member of the Committee on Transport, that when we have seen some unfortunate episodes that have been on foreign flights, it may be good for air safety that we have a restrictive attitude to serving aircraft. In Sweden, where experimental systems are concerned with self-density poles, this has been shown to result in increased consumption. I would urge the Left's big group to agree with the Government in this matter, and I believe they will follow.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e810	I would like to follow up what Einar Olav Skogholt started with, namely wine on domestic flights. I don't think the answer was good enough. The question is: does the Left agree that beer is still to be sold on board domestic flights, as is being done today, but not allowed to sell wine? That's actually the case per. Today, and in that case, the arguments of the Left-hand side that relate to fighting on board aircraft are not kept. I would like an answer to that question. Another question: Does the Left disagree with the fact that the increase in smuggling and home burning in Norway is largely due to the high level of charges we have? One more thing: Like the other parties, does the Left want the level of taxes we have on alcohol to be maintained at such a high level that we have a huge commercial leakage to Sweden and other countries within the EU? Is it agreed and accepted that because of this, a number of small and medium-sized enterprises located on the Swedish border or near areas with easy access to Sweden have to go down because unfortunately there is no customer base left when people trade other goods in addition to alcohol and tobacco when they are first in Sweden? It's going to be very interesting to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e817	I am aware that it is allowed to sell beer on domestic aircraft. We'll get back to that by increasing access giving increased consumption. If an expanded range is available, you can get an increased consumption. We did not find it desirable in the Left and left to the Government to evaluate the applications that are coming. Then at the fees. In the left we have always supported high taxes on alcohol. It looks like a means to bring down the consumption. We see, as others have been about today, the problem of trade leakage against Sweden. I thought Jorunn Ringstad in his reply to Harald Tom Nesvik gave a very good answer, which I can support. When one sees that other countries in Europe also work to reduce alcohol consumption — in Italy they have had very good results — we in the Left believe that it must also be possible in international forums to see if a common tool can be found to reduce alcohol consumption and achieve the goal that the World Health Organisation has seen. For this reason, we can see that good cooperation, among other things. with Sweden, perhaps reducing the commercial leakage that exists. We clearly see the problems that some companies in the Austrian region are facing by reducing their turnover due to trade with Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e824	I find reason to follow up on one of my questions, which the representative Wehövn did not respond to. Does the left see a link between the sky-high level of charges in Norway and the increase in smuggling and home burning? The representative, Mr Vihovde, said that it was with great concern that this part of the illegal trade increased. So the question is, does the representative look at this context?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e832	I asked why I did not take that question – I had noted it to answer it in the same way. Clearly, one sees it as disturbing that there is an increase in smuggling and home burning. I would like to point out what I said in my post, that here one must also look at the level of penalties as a possible basis for reducing this. This has something to do with the developments we have had in Norway, with the liberalisation of alcohol policy, with the liberalisation of the view of alcohol, and with the limits of what we think to be illegal or not, disappear a little. But we in the Left think that one has to hit the smuggling and home burning harder and have a stricter penalty level to reduce it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e839	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e842	The budget agreement provides cheaper spirits and wine, while the beer price is still. This has made the abstinence react. Their message has always been that cuts in the wine and spirits fees are only acceptable if the beer fees go up, and there is no reservation to set up the fees again if it turns out that alcohol consumption is rising, they say in Folket nr. 48. Prevention is important in order to reduce abuse. Then you have to think in the long term and start from the reality we live in. People are moving widely today, borders are more open than ever, and the illegal market accounts for a large part of the turnover. We, who live in areas close to the Swedish border, record large border trade and the placing on the market of domestic and smuggler spirits. There is no age limit here – if you have money, you get bought. It's tragic when young people in the 14-15's age are sleeping in the rush out in the cold. This is the reality we live in, and we have to deal with it when we're going to set alcohol policy goals. It is important to stress that the wine monopoly is an important alcohol policy instrument and that we need to pursue a charging policy that makes it less interesting and profitable to bet on smuggling and home burning. The Pole must be service-configured and customer-friendly and have the goods that have been requested. To meet cross-border trade, it is a good tool to allow the sale of beers with a higher alcohol content than is currently permitted. But the turnover must be on Polet! Youth will go out and meet other young people, and the environments in which they have their friends may happen to cause them to get out unluckily and eventually to end up in very stressful environments. Restless environments for young people are particularly important. I think it's great when not only the schools, but youth organisations are also committed to carefree action. Many abstinence organisations do a good job. Preventive work that produces results should be supported, including with appropriations. So a little bit about drugs. It is a tragedy when addiction to drugs has become a fact both for the addict and for the family. Health is rapidly reduced, and the need for money makes life difficult for the nearest person as well. A drug addict has no limit; the only important thing is to get money for drugs. We must never legalize or decriminalise but maintain the goal of a drug-free society. Controlled sales of alcohol, wine and spirits, prevention work, drug-free environments and leisure activities that provide enough stress and content without alcohol may sound like big words in a debate like this, but these are the tools we have. In addition, there are many good active organisations. I want to mention specifically the AEF and their grid. They refer to good results – from dependence to drug-free lifestyles. Prevention and reduction of drug use require long-termity and predictability. It is important to build on the experience of organisations in this area and to strengthen the interaction between key actors, so I will also mention the AKAN – Labour Committee against Alcoholism and Narkomani. Early detection of abuse is important. Sometimes workmates can quickly smell and see a risk of development into addiction. Then one has to intervene. It is wrong to think that someone helps him by hiding the problem. ACCESS with information and measures to initiate treatment and follow-up. It is better and easier to prevent than to treat. It is therefore important to focus on the legal and controlled marketing of alcohol and to have a conscious and clear attitude to drugs. That is why we must bet on the fact that it is polut sales also in District Norway, which is a good tool against illegal sales.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e865	Let me start this article by asking: Why do we need an action plan to reduce drug use? In spite of this, the Nordics still drink less than all other Europeans do, although consumption has increased since 1993. Norwegian youth also show more reprehensible attitudes than their jamaldings in Western Europe when it comes to drugs. But the damage is great, too great, also in Norway. It applies to the occupation of sick people, it applies to children who suffer because the adult population in their own neighbourhood is intoxication, it is about crime and violence, and it ultimately applies to sickness and death. We know from all the research leading, not least represented by NOVA researcher Willy Pedersen, who recently presented his work, that there is a strong link between availability and consumption, between total consumption and abuse and therefore damage. These are the reasons why the Government has found it right and important to launch a range of measures and new means of action in an action plan. We want to put the search light on prevention measures, we want to focus on the quality of treatment provision, and we want to have an enhanced follow-up protection both for the care of those who want out of their drug use, and for the purpose of preventing new recruitment. I was surprised that the majority now wanted to make alcohol more available. Drug policy is, and must be, the subject of debate. I don't think there are simple solutions, but many dilemmas. I also read the setting from the Social Committee this way. The committee sees the dilemma, but makes some other choices than the government does. The balance between the various actions, for example: in the assessment of the Vinmonopole as an important alcohol policy instrument, the majority want to put a minimum number on sale and to try out self-service with some of them. Studies from Sweden, which showed a salsa by self-service, led to the previous government's negative position in 1997, supported by the heavy trade union environment. A little has changed since this. A completely new study from Sweden shows that self-service led to a real increase in sales of 10 pst. The majority will also have wine-serving services on domestic routes. I consider this to be an extension of the supply of alcoholic beverages, hardly a measure that will reduce the total consumption of alcohol. But let me add: I will of course follow up on the plural proposals. Alcohol use is lower in Norway than in most other European countries. We have to assume that this is related to the alcohol policy we have pursued. This has also resulted in fewer alcohol problems. The negative effects of alcohol use are to some extent numerical, and the comparative figures reported by European countries to the World Health Organisation clearly show that Norwegian alcohol policy in many ways has been successful, so far. The causes of the alcohol problems are found in five ratios related to the use: the amount that gets drunk, the way we drank, the social context in which the drink takes place within, what drink is used, and how the person who has been drinking alcohol appears in a state of intoxication. The crash must be aimed at affecting one or more of these conditions. The so-called Bull Selection, which evaluated Norwegian alcohol policy for a few years ago, also underlined this fact. In particular, it applies to the instruments that regulate the total consumption of alcohol in society. A closer look is needed on the relationship between the fees/prices and the consumption of alcohol. The State Institute for Alcohol and Drug Research is now being tasked with assessing the taxes on alcohol as an instrument for overcoming alcohol policy objectives. The specific level of fees can of course be discussed, whether a professional assessment would go in such a direction. What is crucial is that we pass on high taxes as a central alcohol policy tool. One of the most important factors in the picture that shows that alcohol use is now increasing in Norway is the age of gift, which is known in many municipalities. The Committee majority has taken hold of this. The government will follow it up. Given the size of unregistered consumption, next year, SIFA will carry out a new investigation. Responding to it, together with the assessment of taxes and prices, will provide a better basis for possible new and possibly revised ways to pursue alcohol policy. For a long time, there has been widespread disillusionment in the Great Britain and the people about two high targets in drug policy: for alcohol policy, to limit as far as possible the harm caused by use and abuse, and for drugs a society without the use of such substances. However, there are several countermeasures against these measurements. It is claimed that they are unrealistic and too ambitious. The government’s action plan for reducing the use of drugs contains a number of measures in areas of prevention, treatment and aftercare. I am pleased that the setting is clear that prevention and good treatment are of great value and a commitment for people to end up on restrictive drug policies. This is a theme that we'll come back to in Odelstinget later today. Although drug and alcohol policies have some different objectives, we need to see drug policy responses in context. The action plan is an expression of this by wanting to raise the initial age of alcohol use, to strengthen the reprehensive attitudes towards the use of drugs and the abuse of alcohol in the population, to increase awareness of the relationship between the use and abuse of different drugs, to reduce total alcohol consumption, as recommended by the WHO in 1980 in the context of the ‘Health for All Years 2000’ plan, and to reduce the abuse of illicit drugs by young people and young people, and to provide better and more effective provision for treatment, aftercare and aftercare. Willy Pedersen's research is interesting here. He identifies the link between high alcohol consumption and drug use. ‘Where the alcohol flows most abundantly, we also find cannabis, ecstasy and pills,’ he writes. In drug policy, the use of funds is more widespread. It is virtually universally stated that all drugs, except those prescribed by leaks, should be banned. Measures are therefore partly preventive, partly social policy and partly criminal policy. The few voices that stand for legalization, in my view, lack respect for the heavy driving forces that lead young people into bottomless dependence and nudity. I am pleased to note that there is no strong movement between the youth to change this either. In the information paper on the recently held ‘Action week against drugs’, 17-year-old Nina gave a clear explanation: ‘- I’m not against drugs because it’s harmful or illegal or something like that. I am against drugs because it is a threat to youth and youth culture. Drug use is slowing down youth and taking away our commitment.’ The prevention work must be done more fully by young people speaking to young people. The action plan facilitates this, including: by increasing support for voluntary organisations. Parents and schooling are some of the most important factors affecting young people. The action plan strengthens cooperation with parents through proposals for campaigns that focus more on the relationship between parents’ own drug use and the role of role models. Drug education in the school must be strengthened, including: by providing resources for the provision of teacher training to centres of competence for drug-related issues. And I'm happy to support it widely. Otherwise, the government is focusing on the wide mobilisation of public and voluntary forces, organisations and the youth cultural environment. Through the action plan, we will strengthen voluntary organisations, both drug policy and others, with drug policy interventions. Municipalities, local police and the local community play a central and joint role in the prevention work. An effective drug policy must have legitimacy in broad groups. That's why I've created a drug policy council, and I'm also pleased with the broad cooperation that's now established with the Sports Association, which I trust will act as a stanchion in terms of keeping alcohol and sport separate.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e902	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e905	The discussion about the increase in the number of pole sales has been going on for a long time, and also here today we have been up to it. For a long time, urban areas have had relatively good coverage of pole sales, but in the districts this has been largely an out-of-office offer. In parts of the country, people in many cases have to travel several tens of miles to reach the nearest pole sales. And in that part of the country that I'm from, we know the distance problem very well. So the need for new pole sales is greatest in the districts. I understand that the Council of State has had some counter-representation against the expansion of the number of pole sales, and we have heard today that this also applies to several representatives of the centre parties. Why does the Council of State have this scepticism that even district dwellers should receive such offers in a reasonable geographical proximity to their residence, offers that urban people take and have taken for a long time as a matter of course? Are not pole-sales included in the offers requested by the Centre Party and the Central Government in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e914	The representative Arnesen now drew up an important debate, which is the basis for an active district policy. I think he, like me, thinks that there are others and more vital and important needs that need to be satisfied than getting alcohol. But I see that he has a point, it's been called from several places where this offer doesn't exist. So it was in the 1997 112 outroom. Now the bulk of the population has made it possible to radically improve the supply by joining a plan for the Vinmonopolet that will allow for 40 – or 50 – new poles over five years. I'm going to record that the majority wants to go further into numbers, and I'm going to go with the Vinmonopole in what way we can put it into action, at least secure these 40. My scepticism, my counter-representatives, relates to the relationship between the availability, consumption, abuse and harm of alcohol use.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e919	First of all, I would just like to say that the 5 pst reduction in the fee level for spirits that you made in the budgetary agreement with the central government is a sensible and important step in the right direction to reduce the sky-high level of fees in Norway. Then I'd like to ask the council a couple of questions. In the Action Plan, the Council of State states that health labelling of alcoholic beverages will be assessed. Is this still true? Or will the Council of State now take this aside, when you see the clear majority in the Grand Council who are opposed to this? And then another question. The reduction decides today that the sale of wine is to be authorised on domestic flights without delay. Will the Council of State now ensure that this happens, and how does the Council of State interpret the ‘immediately’?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e928	I am very grateful that the representative Nesvik mentions health hazard labelling as it was supposed to be from my side. There are quite a few others who have produced this as a poison marking. So what was my starting point was a system that is established, for example. in many American countries, where they carry their bottled goods, both wine, beer and spirits, they have a warning in relation to alcohol and pregnancy and alcohol and traffic. There was nothing more dangerous than that. But of course, I have recorded the resistance to this, not least here in Stortinget, and have now had contact with the Vinmonopolet to see if they can contribute to the information about their goods and also the damage in the same way as the Systembolaget in Sweden, where they have had a long-term arrangement for this. So to this with the donation of wine on domestic air travel. First of all, let me say that I perceive the legal paragraph as it stands, so that one can grant permission – just as I don't believe it is meant to be in the promise that it is that one can grant permission to ship donation, that automatically means that all ships that are qualified will be allowed to do so. I now want to see more detail on how I can follow up the Stortinget's decision as clearly as it is expressed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e938	I have to say I'm a little surprised when the Council of State now, after so many clear statements from the majority of the majority of the Grand Duchy, still leaves it hanging a little bit in the air whether she will follow up a majority remark that is being adopted today. She was to "look closer," she said, how she could do this. It is not more difficult than to authorise the carriers that have applied for and have so far been refused by the Council of State. So if the Council of State continues this unworthy training, it's about the fact that the Storting finally decides which airlines will get it, and I hope we don't. Otherwise, I have only one question to the Council of State in connection with what I said in my statement that the monopoly of wine has been aimed at a margin conversion, which the majority of the Committee considers to be contrary to both the Government and the Storting's wish for a transition to more alcoholic products. Do the Council of State agree that this conversion should be reviewed and, if appropriate, will it address it in an appropriate manner with the Governor of the Vinmonopoly?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e945	I actually think it would be pretty stupid of this council to train this case with the donation of wine on the planes of extremes. So when I said that I should look closer to how this should be monitored, there is no training in it. I have recorded that the majority of people want to expand the right that one today has to sell beer, to also apply to wine, and that the expression used is that it should be ‘accommodated’. In practice, there are two applications, possibly three, which are now subject to appeals. The most practical thing is to convert these anchors. When it comes to the margin conversion on the Wine Monopoly, I'm going to say that I've noticed the plurality here, and find it natural to take this up with the rental in the Wine Monopoly. I then want to work to give a response or contact Stortinget in relation to what is recorded there. Since I have some time left, I will address something that is mentioned earlier in the debate. There's probably someone who wants to claim that there's a little too many "not" in this proposition, but there's a "not" too little on page 13. In the case of international cooperation, the project support referred to therein is intended to support the creation of alternative incomes for farmers who currently serve drugs, and to motivate the inhabitants of ‘not’ to use drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e955	It is then both recorded and confirmed during the debate, and any concerns about that opinion should then have disappeared.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e958	I have understood that the Council of State has previously stated that it will open up the sale of beer with a higher alcohol content than 7 % by volume on the pole. I would like to ask the Council of State on the basis of what she has said: Is not the proposal that lies here, where the Council of State is instructed to open it immediately, a rather unnecessary instruction, since the government is doing it? It is clear that there is some kind of block-independent instruction from both the right and the left, but I would like to hear the views of the Council of State on it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e963	The action plan was submitted on 8 May, and it has been a long time since that. After that time, we have once again been able to confirm that, although we could have wished to pursue our own national drug policy, these are commitments in relation to the EEA Agreement. The question of the import ban currently in force on beer with an alcoholic strength of more than 7 % volume is addressed in a letter from ESA. I believe that the most important thing in Norwegian alcohol policy and that has to do with the EEA Agreement is to take care of the role of the wine monopoly. I also want to maintain the divorce of the day in relation to the goods to be sold in and outside the Vinmonopole, and I have engaged myself especially in the case of Brussels. I can't see the big anti-alcoholic attitudes against saying no to take a fight with ESA when it comes to the import of beer with more than 7 % alcohol, as long as we have the possibility to let this sale go through the Vinmonopole. I'm assuming that we still have the possibility of doing that based on the examples we have in this field, and based on the understanding we've had with ESA at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e970	First, a few words about the sale of beer with an alcoholic strength by volume of more than 7 % vol. at the sale of the Vinmonopolet, as a result of the EEA Agreement or an ESA directive. In this context, it may also be important to bear in mind that the EEA Agreement meant that all sales of starch containing more than 4.5 % by volume of alcohol were moved from the food business to the wine monopoly. So it's not just negative things you can point to in terms of the EEA Agreement and the sales of beer, and I hope the Council remembers that at a later date. I would like to follow up on the question from the representative Arnesen: Has the Council never considered how the people of the districts without wine monopoly can obtain alcoholic beverages? Of course, the government is aware that they too drink alcohol. Isn't the Council of State considering the large amount of illegal alcohol that we have? And what measures does the Council of State think can be taken to change this trend? The majority of the committee says that it would be very difficult to achieve our common objective of reducing alcohol consumption by 25 pst. by the end of 2000. The same majority also says: ‘The majority therefore believe that a target for a reduction in alcohol consumption for a new period of time should be set as soon as possible.’ I'm assuming there's a call from the committee that the Council of State will join. I would like to hear a little about the thoughts she has about promoting a proposal for the Storting on a new objective in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e984	It was not a small matter when it came to questions that were to be answered in 2 minutes, but the Council of State has to do as best she can.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e987	If Skogholt thinks that an EEA agreement is needed to set a different limit than what we have for what is to be sold in and outside the Vinmonopole, I will distance myself from it. I think we could decide that on our own. Woodland asked if I had thought about how people in the districts were getting alcoholic goods. I have to remind you that I myself am from a long-distance district, so I know a lot about that practice. In fact, I also know a part about the relationship between what we're concerned about, that's consumption, abuse and damage, and the relationship between availability and consumption. I'm, like Skogholt, busy reducing the illegal translation of alcohol. Now I have created a drug policy council, where both spirits importers, drug organizations, sports, etc. is in. I just think one of their themes might be to look at how we can reduce both smuggling and youth-longing. Elles is also said in this action plan that it is important to strengthen police and customs action. I don't set my color to the level of my fees that many others do. I have also noticed that there are many people in the Labour Party who are skeptical about it, because experience from Denmark and Sweden shows that there is still a lot of smuggling despite the fact that they have lower fees.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1003	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1006	The survey is currently examining an important document on the prevention of drug abuse and the reduction of drug use. There is a broad consensus that the cost of drug abuse is very high, both human, health, social and economic. Like most other countries, we are struggling to find adequate tools. Old instruments are no longer as effective, because mobility is high in the population, and distances between countries are also reduced during travel time. In addition, the private economy is strong, and the availability of legal alcohol, and not least the availability of illicit drugs, is very high. It is quite clear that where the legal goods are not available, the illegal goods are often very widespread, and here I think we have to stop having cloud caps for the eyes. I would like to distance myself from the fact that more wine monopoly sales in the districts are a liberalizing measure. Multiple polydrug sales are measures to bring alcohol sales into legal and civilised forms. Despite the fact that the Council of State tried to disprove it, I might think that some politicians are unknown to the culture that exists – or maybe we should say that unculture – and the relationship that one has with alcohol in many environments around the country. The Workers' Party supports the prevention measures set out in the Action Plan. I would particularly like to highlight the important role of the schools and voluntary organisations. I also believe it is important that young people themselves engage and speak to young people. But parents also have a great responsibility, both as role models for their children and also by spending time with their children throughout their childhood. Many parents then also make a formidable effort and contribute a great deal, among other things. in non-governmental organisations. In this way, they contribute to the development of interests that can give their child a meaningful life content. The most important thing in my view is that as a society, we can create counterpowers and growth conditions that can provide basic security, so that the need to escape drug abuse falls away. However, the availability of legal and illegal drugs is very high today, and young people in the release phase need to try out borders. That's why the school's work is so important. It may include, inter alia: to parents who, in cooperation, can set limits for their young people, and not least give parents a realistic view of what is happening in the youth environment, simply teach them to understand what to look for when the young person is about to get into abuse. I have also been informed that it goes on average four years from the young person starting with drugs until the parents discover it. I think it's very true that the Storting is now going to give the municipalities greater responsibility for the policy, because the problems are in the local environment. I am aware that there is good cooperation in many municipalities, including: between police, school, social services and child protection. In particular, the abstinence organisations and other non-governmental organisations can contribute constructively at local level, preferably in cooperation with public authorities. There is still a great deal of upsurge in the Great Britain on the monopoly of wine as an alcohol policy instrument, but, as the case-rapporteur pointed out, alcohol policy must also have a popular anchoring and a popular understanding. The Christian People's Party and the Central Party call liberalizing measures are, in fact, very important proposals to secure this arrangement which is an international special scheme. Without reforms that make the Vinmonopole a modern and service-oriented organisation, understanding and respect for the scheme will decrease. The working party believes that the alcohol turnover should be regulated, but the regulation must be comprehensible to people and not encourage illegal activities. Finally, I am also very pleased that there is a full consensus in the Storting on a still restrictive drug policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1025	If we're going to succeed in our alcohol policy, I think the government has chosen the right strategy. It wants to coordinate the efforts of government, whether these are action plans such as ‘Safety and proximity in everyday life’, ‘Strengthening the growing-up environment’ or ‘Prevention Police Service’. Research shows that all abuse starts with smelting and smoking. In order to raise the age of the youth debut, it is important to provide increased support for supportive environments. There are projects in which young people, parents, churches, police and local authorities play a team, such as the restless music café at the Norway-famous train station in Arendal, or the ‘Come and Dance!’ foundation, where young people can make a positive use of their leisure time. It's scary that 26 pst. Among young people aged 15 to 20 years in Oslo, i.e. every four years, cannabis has been used, and young people have an increasingly liberal approach to use than before. For the Christian People's Party, there will never be any legalization of cannabis or other drugs. Information measures and awareness-raising activities are important in raising the awareness of individual choices. Parents can be important examples here. The school may detect abuse at an early stage. Of course, the Christian People's Party agrees that certain arenas and situations should be free of drugs — not least in sport and sports. Most people agree that driving and alcohol do not belong together. Research shows that the concentration and reaction capacity are impaired even when very low alcohol is consumed. It should therefore be agreed to lower the per million limit for drivers. I have noticed that for the time being, none of the parties on the right-hand side are involved in a comment on this. On the other hand, for the sake of equal competition, they will open up the possibility of selling beer at gas stations, if the municipalities do. From 1 January 1998, municipalities are required to draw up an alcohol policy action plan where control and opening hours are important instruments. Other locations abroad, including: in England, the pubs are shut down earlier than in Norway. The government of Harlem Brundtland proposed to extend the ceiling for wine monopoly sales by up to 50 sales. Two years later, the Labour Party will open up at least 40 new pole sales in addition to the 10 already established in 1997/98. This is an increase of over 30 pst. There must have been a change in a party that has undergone a strong restraining movement. And what signals does it give to open up more new poles while other government services, such as mail, pharmacies and public transport, disappear? The same batch, supported by the Right Party and the Advance Party, also has a majority proposal to open as soon as possible a self-service test scheme on the pole, yet another test from Sweden has already shown that the alcohol turnover increased by 10 pst. The last majority proposal from the same batches concerns ‘immediate’ authorisation for the donation of wine on domestic air travel. If you want to reduce the consumption of alcohol while at the same time want to be like beer and wine, would it perhaps be more important to remove the beer-serving on domestic flights? Many passengers are also drivers after landing. There has been a strange debate today. All parties agree on the objective and on a large part, perhaps most, of the action plan measures. Nevertheless, it all turns out in several liberal proposals. Based on a social committee that is primarily responsible for the health of people, this has no good connection.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1048	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1052	The reason why I am taking the floor now is that I will go through a few proposals and explain how we will vote, and I will not ask for the floor to be put to the vote when decisions are taken on voting. Proposal No. One, of course, from the Workers' Party, we're going to go against it, and we've told you about that in the past. The same applies to SV’s proposal. We're going against that. But what I think is worth saying is IV of the committee's recommendation, which is that we should have an evaluation of the effects of the alcohol law's donation time frame. Following the signals provided by the Committee, and also partly here, this is a proposal which has been made in view of the need to look at the possibility of reducing opening hours. This is not something the Progress Party wants to open up to. We will now give this industry a little more time to be able to do business, so we must not constantly change the terms of the enterprises. The Progress Party will therefore vote against IV.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1061	Early in the debate, several representatives were concerned about the tragic situation that is now taking place on the hard drug scene. And let me just say in this context that, unfortunately, overdose rates for injecting drug users are increasing, unfortunately there is a new record in 1998, and unfortunately this is a development Norway shares with the rest of Western Europe. There are many reasons, including: that the substance is more available and cheaper than before. I am busy finding measures to reduce overdose levels. We are building the methadone programme to full capacity. In the budget, we intend to strengthen the metropolitan communities, especially with so-called immediate means, especially targeting the low-threshold supply of the most vulnerable. Of course, I also follow closely the measures taken by both the municipality of Oslo and other municipalities. But most important of all, here too, it is to achieve prevention that reduces new recruitment to such an environment, and a treatment that can get more out of it. So there were also questions about who should take care of the long-term prevention work, whether there are voluntary organisations or the public. I believe in both. I believe in strengthening voluntary organisations, but I would also like to remind you of the important tasks that the Directorate of Drugs has had and will continue to have. And then finally, I am pleased to note that the Committee stresses that there is a lot to take care of and beyond to get into the so-called “point-free” – having zones that are free of sleep, such as sports, traffic, during pregnancy, and where children and young people are present. Let me label sport as the special arena that it is for alcohol producers. There is a closer cooperation between the Sports Association and the Government. I take the majority's emphasis in the committee's comment on income so that they want to support the commitment that has also been carried out by the Government – that we have taken initiatives towards Nordic colleagues where it has been the case. I have also spoken to several of my colleagues in Europe in order to achieve a common stance on advertising bans for alcoholic goods in the sports arenas.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1070	As far as Nesvik is concerned, why the Advance Party will vote against IV in the Committee's recommendation, which is aimed at evaluating the effects of the time-frames of the alcohol law on the donation of alcoholic beverages. He said that because the majority wants to open up further restrictions on opening hours, the Progress Party would not vote in favour of this proposal. The right is the co-rapporteur for this proposal, and I will therefore reserve myself against that interpretation. It's true, as Nesvik said, that a majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the government parties and the SV, in their comments may suggest something like that, but there's no clear remark – but they do. Whatever the case, it makes sense for us to evaluate it after a few years of new opening hours, and I am far from sure that conclusions that can be drawn from it will go in a unique direction in the direction of the Progress Party and the Right has stood for. After all, we have seen that what primarily contributes to violence in connection with closing hours is that in a city society you have the same closing time for all night and outdoors – we have to say almost. It can provoke violence because everyone has to go home at the same time. If we manage to spread the closing hours and at the same time get more seriousness and attention about the fact that you should never drink more than you have good, even long opening times will not have the consequences of which we unfortunately see a part today. I think we should all be concerned with evaluating the mechanisms we have at all times, and then getting each party to draw the consequences it wants from the evaluation, or what you think makes sense. But the right has no reason to withdraw from this proposal. We will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1075	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 674]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1087	In the document we have here for consideration, a Document No. Eight proposals from representatives John I. Alvheim and Harald Tom Nesvik are proposed as follows: ‘The budget asks the Government, at the time of the social security settlement of the year and at the same time as the introduction of the increase in the minimum pension by NOK 12000, to return to the Stortinget with a proposal that pension benefits totaling less than 2G be excluded from coordination, with a certain limitation of the deduction from the normal rules for the total pension exceeding that limit.’ In their comments, the proposers pointed out that an increase in the special supplement would result in many pensioners with small supplementary pensions becoming minimum pensioners, and considered that such a trend in which scoring labour performance does not result in net pay-offs in the form of retirement benefits to be thought of as lifting breaks. When the Social Committee dealt with this matter, it turned out that there was a complicated case, where adjustments at one level could have unintended effects at other levels. And it has therefore been difficult for the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, to go directly in favour of the proposal as it stands here, to adjust to 2G, because then you can have other effects that are not intended and that create new differences. Also in the correspondence with the department, it has been clear that the matter is complicated and inconclusive. It has not always been easy, not for the rapporteur, to clarify some of the questions that have been asked, not because the department has been unwilling, but simply because it is unclear what the consequences are. What has been clearly shown and has become clear is that we need a closer investigation to find out how to adjust what a joint committee agrees to can be an unreasonable outcome. The matter has also been referred by the Department to the State Pension Fund and the Municipal Pension Fund, and the Committee's comments refer to letters from there. We have also referred in particular to letters from the State Pension Fund to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health dated 24 April 1998, where the State Pension Fund recommends that the proposal be examined on a broader basis before the matter may be referred to the Department and the Stortinget. The majority share the State Pension Fund's view of the need for a prior investigation and thus promote the following proposals: ‘The budget asks the Government to review the coordination of public occupational pension schemes. The case is brought before the Stortinget as a case of its own when the necessary investigation has taken place.» So this is the majority's view on this matter, all with the exception of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1115	The way in which the special supplement was raised last year, apparently without a coherent and comprehensive assessment of the consequences this would have, among other things. in relation to other beneficiaries, many experienced unfairness in this regard. Among other things, this decision led to 73,000 new minimum pensioners. Most of them had paid in money for popular benefit, and many had previously had had a small supplementary pension. In this context, becoming a minimum pensioner was perceived by many as unreasonable, but most unfairly, it was probably experienced by many pensioners in the public sector, that is. those who then became minimum pensioners despite having both paid social security contributions to the social security fund and paid to the public service pension. Many also felt that it was unreasonable for those who had worked in the private sector with occupational pensions to receive their occupational pension at the top of the minimum pension, while the equivalent in the public sector only received the minimum pension. This was taken up in connection with the social security scheme, and questions were then asked the Council of State about what to do with those who had paid 2 pst. of their wages and salaries to a government pension fund without any return. The representative of Skogholt, among others, said: questions about what the Council of State would recommend public employers to do to part-time employees who paid 2 pst. to an occupational pension of which they did not receive anything at all. The council had no answer to this at that time, but the Council of State Løwer promised to come back with an answer almost immediately. But until now neither the representative of Skogholt nor the committee have received such a response from the Council of State, and I would therefore like to take this opportunity now to ask the Council of State whether she has any assessment of how this is to be resolved today. Moreover, the Labour Party looks forward to a broader review of the entire occupational pension system, both public and private. We also see the need for a review of the coordination of public service pension schemes and therefore support the proposal that the Committee has made.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1124	The storing representatives John I. Alvheim and I promoted on March 26th. a private proposal for the Government to return to the Storting in the course of the year's social security settlement, proposing that pension benefits totalling less than 2G be excluded from coordination. This was not done when the majority of the Social Committee chose not to deal with this proposal until now. I understand that this is a matter that requires further investigation by the department. But it is not right, as I see it, that a complete review of the whole coordination system must be carried out before a decision can be made on this proposal. It is a reality that such a total review of the coordination of public service pensions could take a reasonable period of time. And in the meantime, there are a number of pensioners who feel that they are not being paid out for what they have paid into their state pension scheme. There are a number of pensioners who have had small job fractions and who have now become minimum pensioners as a result of the increase in the minimum pension, who fortunately received a majority in the social security bill this year. It is in order to capture the injustice that has become part of these pensioners that we from the Progress Party have promoted this proposal. But we just have to regret that the majority of the committee is not willing to have a quick assessment of how to correct this injustice that is felt by a number of these pensioners. It is interesting to note what Jan-Tore Strandås of the Municipality Association says to Municipal Report No. 10th of 20 March of this year: ‘The money paid by our members and the municipalities to the KLP belongs to the employees.’ It is also said that both the Norwegian Municipal Council and the YS require that the 12 000 additional crowns of the minimum pensioners be kept out of the coordination law. At Storting, parties have made a complete turnaround in the pension case in relation to what they thought when the coordination law was discussed in 1991. Only the Advance Party believes the same thing as before, and I allow myself to refer to the same article where it appears that the Christian People's Party, Right, Left, Labour Party and the Advance Party were behind a majority in the 1991 review. And unfortunately, it's just the Progress Party that is now standing back on what they said then. It is also interesting to note the following statements from Jan-Tore Strandås: "I expect the Ap will be behind our demands. Something else will be alarming.’ This is referred to in the same article under the heading ‘Saved resources of staff of Fraranha’. It is a fact that if the Workers' Party supports the proposals of the Advance Party, this majority will be in line with, among other things, the The Municipal Association and the YS have issued the same article in the Municipal Report. If the Workers' Party is thus in its position, it will take a long time before we have an opportunity to correct the bias that has become part of these organisations' members. The Progress Party will strongly warn against this, as this is a matter in which it is possible to limit the investigation to those who have pensions up to 2G. It is important that this case be brought before the Storting before the social security settlement in 1999 so that no more are affected by this injustice. Because it's an injustice when it's not given a return for what you've actually been forced to pay through a draw on the payroll. So I hope that the Workers' Party here will take the sense of the prisoner and vote for this proposal as the same organizations that make up the majority of the Workers' Party's mass, now demand that the Workers' Party actually do, as stated in the article on 20 March. Subsidy, the Progress Party will have to support the overall review of the Coordination Act, so that at least there is no risk that this will never be done, but I fear that this will take a very long time, and I hope, if the Social Minister is to have the floor in this matter, that she will indicate what time period we are talking about here. I fear it will take many years.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1156	The Committee is currently considering a proposal which has a good intention in itself, namely that pension benefits which together amount to less than 2G are excluded from coordination. On the basis of the background to the proposal, it appears that the proposers saw the need for this proposal when it was decided to increase the minimum pension by NOK 12 000. One of the things that was pointed out as problematic when the minimum pension got its massive rise of NOK 1000 per person. the month, there were several minimum pensioners. This applies to the following groups: pensioners who previously had an additional pension from popular security that was less than the new special supplement pensioners who had low social security and a small public service pension It is the last group to be discussed in the proposal we are considering today. Let me stress that this coordination between popular and public service pensions is not new, something that one can get the impression of today when one listens to the contributions of the representatives of the Workers' Party and, in part, of the Progress Party. The regulatory framework is such that, as a rule, many women with part-time jobs are reduced in occupational retirement provision as the social security system increases. I would point out that the problem was updated this year because the very large increase in the minimum pension led to a very large number at once experiencing the consequences of the coordination. There are several difficult aspects to this matter: it is important that trust in public service pensions is not undermined. This can easily happen if a large group feels that they are not getting anything left for what they have paid into the pension fund. I would also like to point out that those who pay for occupational retirement provision in private pension schemes will not experience that an increase in social security reduces occupational pensions. The Christian People's Party sees it as difficult to use an amount as a lower limit to coordination, such as: 2G, as proposed in this document No. The 8th proposal. Setting a specific limit without further investigation will easily lead to new groups feeling unfairly treated. An arbitrary amount limit may also easily lead to new biases. The Christian People's Party considers it important to look at the whole of the coordination issue and will therefore carry out an overall review of the coordination of public pension schemes. I would like to point out that the Government intends to present a proposal for a new legislation on private occupational pensions in the spring of 1999. I see it as an advantage that there has been a recent review of private occupational pensions when reviewing the coordination of public pension schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1187	The representative, Harald Tom Nesvik, is given the floor to make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1190	I am sorry that I was most concerned about announcing my subsidiary support for the suspension and thus forgot to promote our own proposal. With this, I am promoting the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1195	The representative Harald Tom Nesvik has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1198	The right hand position, as shown in the box, is behind the majority position here. We want the Government to review the coordination of public service pension schemes precisely because – it is correct as proposers have pointed out – this can be unfair to certain groups. But it's a complicated field that everyone's been dealing with. Retirement schemes are complex, the coordination between social security and public service pension schemes is even more complicated. Not because they could not be simple – they could if you switched to so-called net occupational pension schemes, as the private occupational pension schemes are largely. They're complicated because the civil servants' organizations have wanted a system that guarantees you get a pension that is proportional to the income you had when you left, it's pretty much 66 pst. the income from retirement at the time of retirement. That's why you have chosen this way of doing it rather than having a net scheme that guarantees payment, but that's a much simpler system. This has been raised by the Right on several occasions, and that's not true, as the representative Nesvik suggested, that the Right Party, and for that matter, also other parties here, have left their desire and intention to try to get simpler arrangements. However, the fact that we do not support the proposals put forward by the proposers here does not mean that we do not want a change – I would just like to say that. But it's dangerous, I think, to jump into a thought of a way of doing this without it being investigated. It is therefore also gratifying that the Progress Party itself sees the need for further investigation. I don't think anyone in this room wants it to take winter and spring, but you have to really go through it and take inward that these are complicated things, so if you change a bit one place, you have to make sure that not the injustice – at least the way it feels – is just shifted to other groups. There are several ways to tackle this problem. So I mean, as I've been saying, this raises the question of a net pension, because you get guaranteed a contribution from the occupational pension scheme. It's a simple and transparent system. But what a net scheme does not guarantee is, of course, that if the benefits of popular interest are lower, you could risk getting a pension that is not as high overall as the complex coordination system. Another way to solve this is to assess whether those who pay into an occupational pension scheme and who will not benefit from it because of the improvement of minimum pensions should be able to benefit from an exemption from payment of the occupational pension scheme. A third way to tackle this is to look at whether, at the age of retirement — if the coordination of social security benefits and occupational pension contributions does not exceed what is obtained from social security — what has been paid into the occupational pension scheme can be paid directly. This is just to show that there are a lot of ways you can tackle this question. So we are not willing to jump on one solution here and now, precisely because the pension funds we have, in a very good way – unfortunately perhaps, but nevertheless – have pointed out that the proposal of the Progress Party raises new difficulties and can lead to new injustices. Therefore, the Right is satisfied with standing behind the majority position. And finally, I just want to say that I don't think it's natural that, with this background, you now also consider the private pension schemes. They are, as I said, obviously not co-ordinated, nor should they be because they are purely net schemes. It might be an intention on the part of the Workers' Party to include what you are allowed to pay into a private occupational pension scheme, but I would strongly warn against that. There must be no limit to what individuals are allowed to save in private pension schemes. This is a favourable form of saving that reduces consumption today – for those who have to be concerned about someone using too much – and who will be paid at the age of retirement. With these words, I recommend the vote of the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1219	Since the Left is not represented in the Social Committee, I would like to say a few words in the debate, and then both on that Document No. The 8 proposed here and the setting presented by the Committee. Because with the risk of getting a little lost in complicated questions, I have a feeling that Document No. The 8-proposal initially concerns something more than what the setting directly addresses. The draft document No 8 addresses, as far as I can see, the question of both supplementary pensions for social security and pensions from other public pension schemes, while it may seem that the suspension is more directly limited to public pension schemes outside the scope of social security. If that's right, for my part, I would like to make a clear call to the Council of State that when the Government goes into these issues, it also takes the question of supplementary pensions according to popular security, and in that case – if understood correctly – goes beyond what is directly resulting from the committee setting. Furthermore, in connection with a part of the language used in this case, both from the Labour Party and to some extent from the Progress Party, where there is some indication that this could be seen as a breach of promises, I would like to stress that the issue we are now dealing with, which is partly related to the clear rise in the minimum pension made this year, is not new. It is not linked to this cancellation of the minimum pension. It's a principle that you've had since you introduced a minimum pension, which was the sum of a basic pension plus a special supplement. When we have gained an increased interest in this issue from last autumn, it is because when we made a happy and strong raising of the minimum pension, much more people were affected by this. While you used to have a pension consisting of a basic pension plus an additional pension, you suddenly found yourself in a situation where you became a minimum pensioner, but not with any lower performance than you had before, maybe with a higher performance. There's no doubt that between 95 and 100 pst. Of those who come in the situation we're talking about here, women. Essentially, it will be women who have had a low-wage occupation and who have also generally had a non-full-time relationship with the profession. There will be either women who have worked for fewer years than men usually do, and/or women who have had a part-time job. It is important to ensure that people's rights and pension benefits are seen as having the legitimacy of as much as possible, so that people do not experience it as if they are deprived of a right. And here it's a little bit important to distinguish between how it's felt by the recipient of this, and the logic that can be used on the part of society and say that no one gets less than what you're entitled to, and that's why it's not so dangerous in itself. The point is that those involved have perceived it – quite rightly – as having paid up money to a pension scheme that was supposed to give something back. And what you get back then disappears into the technical rules for the special supplement in such a way that you get the supplementary pension in itself, but get less special supplement than the person without supplementary pension, and then the result is that you end up with the minimum pension, and no other situation in terms of money than it has that without having been active is entitled to the minimum pension. You're just going to have to do it in a slightly different way. I don't think we should be surprised that it feels unfair. In any case, you should not wonder so much about it, and it may apply even if it is relatively small amounts. It was shown yesterday when, with some commitment, the issue of tax austerity and tax relief was discussed, which also did not constitute the very large amounts for the very most active. We're saying that this is a difficult question. That's enough in the sense that you get into a situation where it's easy to raise a lot of difficult issues. But I'm not so sure that this is as difficult as you want it to, if you keep clear that what you have a wish for, is that those who have paid for money in order to have an additional pension, at least get something left for this payment. It is not clear that the best solution here is simply to deal with the proposal from the Progress Party, a proposal for which one can absolutely have great sympathy. It might be that if you say it or nothing, you might lose some intermediate solutions that can be reasonable, which can give you an experience of getting something back for what you paid for, while at the same time you might be able to keep the financial sizes at a level that you can handle. There may also be opportunities to take this over a few years, to go into a principle, but to take costs over a few years instead of taking them right away. My clear call to the Council of State is to address these issues with an open mind, with the clear aim of coming out with a different result from what is happening today, and then we'll see where the result is, also in relation to the cost question. Finally, it is understandable that, for example: the pension fund of the local government sector is informed that this costs money. But what they're not telling us is what they saved off money when the minimum pension was raised, with the result that they got less pension payments than they were supposed to have originally paid. There is no doubt that among those who had gains in cancelling the minimum pensions, pension funds serving government employees were also pension funds, and that is the money they initially had to pay until the minimum pension was raised. So also there are a little bit more sides.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1240	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1244	I asked for a reply because the post from Hove now made me think of a word from former prime minister C. J. Hambro, who once said that it was any representative who was free to express the confusion that prevailed in his interior. With the President's permission, I have to say that I think it's enough that the representative's posts indicated that he didn't know how complicated these matters are, because they're actually complicated. I think it is very important that the Council of State now does not do what I see as encouraging, that is to say, to go into this and consider not only what the majority of the committee has asked for – namely, to look at occupational pensions and whether you can be sure to get something back for what you have paid for there – but the entire supplementary pension system of the population. You have to be clear that these are two separate things. Social security is not an insurance scheme in an actuarial sense. It's a solidarity system, which I thought left behind, which means that you pay according to your ability and get as needed. Unfortunately, it is a paradox that is not easy to change, that everyone wants the minimum pension to increase, but no one will be the minimum pensioner. It's not compatible. The only way to solve it is to say that we just have to have a minimum pension, a common pension for everyone, and then you get to arrange your supplementary pensions outside of the public system. There are some parts here in the hall that go in for it. Right does not belong to them. I didn't think the Left did it either. However, to ensure that the Council of State in this millennium comes back with an answer to that question and to the proposal that the Party of Progress has taken up, she must not do as the representative of Hove has suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1249	I know well what the quote Annelise Høegh came with from C.J. Hambro. I'm not quite sure if that's the most striking thing about the exact situation here. I have not asked the Council of State to investigate the entire supplementary pension system in the face of popular suspicion. I am also aware that the supplementary pension system of the people's fear can be presented as the representative of Høegh did. But it is also possible to present it in other ways, because even according to popular opinion, the situation is that you pay in relation to your salary, with a code that allows you to also get an additional pension. What is the situation today is that those who are entitled to the minimum supplementary pension in accordance with social security benefit are deprived of their entire supplementary pension in connection with the special supplement, while those who have the largest supplementary pension retain 70-90 pst. of its supplementary pension in relation to the special supplement. There are different ways of going into this and seeing it, and it's possible, in contrast to the representative of Höegh, that I also have certain ideas about how this can be done in a practical way, which doesn't have to be too complicated or too expensive. So I'm not quite sure if this with confusion was necessarily quite striking.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1254	Several have not asked for the word for a line, and the string change is thus terminated.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1257	Coordination of public service pensions with social security pensions is based on the principle that it is the highest pension, usually the service pension, that is guaranteed. Social security is always paid in full, while the service pension is reduced. The gross public service pension scheme guarantees a minimum pension of 66 pst at full ignition. of final wages and salaries collected from the social security pension and the service pension. This way, a part-time supplement of NOK 90 000 in final salary will be able to cover the entire pension level with the minimum pension in social security, which is now DKK 81 360 for single workers. Most people, however, get more because pensions are coordinated according to their level of employment. I'm not going into the complicated rules here. But let me remind you that when the special supplement came in 1969, there was a full agreement in Stortingen that this should be fully coordinated with other retirement benefits. This applies, for example: against supplementary pension in social security, service pension, war pension and seafarer's pension. What happens when the special supplement in the population is increasing is that the population is replacing a larger part of the service pension. The special supplement has steadily increased over the years, and has always been coordinated away for those with a public sector service pension. There was nothing new about social security in the spring of 1998. What was new was that the special supplement increased much more than usual. I have already said this from this pulpit – it has also been said by the Council of State, Løwer – that I understand that many with small service pensions find it difficult for them to have full or partial compensation for the service pension with popular security, in the same way as pensioners with low supplementary pensions also do not know it satisfactory when they also become minimum pensioners. Let me stress, however, that the result of this year's changes was that everyone gets what they're entitled to, many more than they got before the increase in the minimum pension. As I wrote in my letter to the Committee of 22 October this year, the proposal we are discussing today raises the question of a better distribution profile in public sector service pension schemes. I understand that it's being traveled. I mentioned in the letter that I am in doubt that this can and should be done through the rules of the coordination law. The majority of the Committee asks the Government to review the coordination of public service pension schemes and submit it to the Stortinget as its own matter when the necessary distribution is completed. I'll make sure of that. The issue of a framework law for public pension schemes has been raised. The proposal for a new legislation on service pension schemes is based on the Stortinget signal, and NOU 1998:1, the draft law on occupational retirement provision, was being heard in the spring of 1998 and is now under consideration in the Ministry of Finance with a view to making an outright proposal in spring 1999. It seemed preferable to deal with the issue of a possible framework law for service pension schemes in the public sector, where appropriate the winding-up of coordination laws, only when the Stortinget has adopted the new law on occupational retirement provision. But I'm going to have a parallel statement, as the multiple asks for. Finally, let me also say that the Stortinge will soon meet with the coordination laws. I intend to submit to the Stortinget a proposal for a certain adjustment in relation to the phenomenon of ‘negative effect’ in the coordination. What's taken up there is, among other things. it may be lost to having care points in the public interest. This isn't exactly the same thing, but I'll mention it anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1277	This debate has taken longer than we would have thought. But I still want to take the word and repeat a question that I raised when only the Council of State Kleppa was here. I now see that also the Council of State bishops have found it timely to be present during the debate. In connection with the social security settlement, a question was asked to the Council of State Løwer. The question that was raised in this connection was the reasonableness of a government employee who would serve approximately. 130000 kroner and today pays 2 pst. of their income, would pay in to a occupational pension for which they initially knew they would not get anything left for. It was Einar Olav Skogholt who brought this up, and he asked the Council of State what the government would recommend to public employers to tell their employees in this regard. Councillor Firebeard Bishop then answered: "As I see it, the 2 pst. to the State Pension Fund and KLP statutory and payable. What will happen in an assessment of the situation that is now occurring – in the context of the settlement – “I must be allowed to ask for the opportunity to come back to, so that I can respond on a proper basis. This is a terribly difficult regulation, and I am not able to take it directly on the kick here, but I will promise the representative that he will get a real answer from me as soon as possible – if it can be accepted.” Neither the representative nor the committee has received any reply to this question. I wonder if the Council of State will now be able to make its judgements.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1289	I would like to underline what the representative Britt Hildeng introduced. I understand that either the Committee or we in the Government were concerned that today we should have a long debate on this proposal, because a broad majority in the Committee is asking us to settle this matter. When Councillor Løwer is present, it is because she has a case in Odelstinget and probably expect us to be on the case list further than we are at this time. It is an important question that the representative Britt Hildeng raises. She's probably aware that it's not easy to give a good answer. It is also not easy to provide a satisfactory answer. The easiest answer is that today we have a law on how to pay, and until one looks at any changes there, that's what's going on. We have discussed whether the Minister of Labour and Administration has answered this question from the representative of Hildeng, who was raised in the previous round, or not. I believe that we are now working together to send a reply back to the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1296	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 676]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1310	The proposal by the representative of Bastesen means that early retirement workers are treated in the same way, among others. with state pensioners. The proposer promotes its proposal on the basis of an assessment that, with the tight labour market we have today, it would be beneficial for society to exploit the labour force of pensioners and other social workers, who have the capacity and desire to participate in the labour market. This intention is supported by the Committee and is in line with what the Stortinge has previously expressed in the context of the welfare notification, which expressed the desire to find greater flexibility in taking off from the profession, inter alia. by providing greater opportunities for combining work, pensions and social security. In this respect, the Stortinget Government asked for the benefits and disadvantages of introducing a flexible pension scheme for persons between 64 and 70 years of age. In these days, the public body set up to assess early retirement issues has submitted its recommendation. The follow-up to this sample work will, as far as I have understood, be coordinated with the follow-up of a report by an inter-ministerial working group that has looked at flexible pension schemes, flexible retirement and the best-year rule of popular welfare. The Committee considers it reasonable to await the further follow-up to this work and recommends that, in the light of the fact that the proposal is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1321	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1327	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1333	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Einar Olav Skogholt on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 2 and 3, by Harald Tom Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 4, from Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Requests for explanations of vote have been made.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1349	I would recommend the representatives of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left to vote against the minority proposals and against the vote I, II and III and for IV.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1354	The Committee's position on I will, as far as I understand, be set against the SV's proposal. That is why we are voting against you and supporting our own proposal. As regards II and III in the vote, I would suggest that we vote against them, because the word 'immediate' has been used there. The government has given a signal that you will meet this in other ways. The IV of the adjustment is originally SV's proposal, and of course we support it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1363	I would recommend that the members of the Progress Party vote against the proposal of the Labour Party, on the joint proposals of the Progress Party and the Right, of course, against the proposal of the Socialist Left, but also against the IV vote because of the signal that has been given both in the debate and in the Committee, that what we want to use this proposal for – at least part of the representatives, and because unfortunately the majority – is to look at a possible further restriction, and we cannot vote for that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1368	I would recommend that the representatives of the Labour Party vote in favour of proposal No. 1 against proposals Nos. 2, 3 and 4 and for all Roman numerals.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1373	That is for the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1376	Right-wing representatives are so excited that we don't need an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1383	In any case, the President will try to guide as best she can. Then we're ready for voting. Proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for the launch of pilot schemes with self-service at some selected wine monopolies, the aim of which is to identify the effects of such a scheme’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1397	Proposals Nos. 2 and 3, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Sale of spirits may only be made by the A/S Vinmonopolet on the basis of municipal appropriations. Sales of wine and liqueur beers may be made after municipal authorisation by: A/S Vinmonopolet, own shops specifically intended for the placing on the market of alcohol or groceries.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend Section 9 of the Alcohol Code and its related regulations, so that it becomes lawful to use company logos in advertising even if the company in question also produces or sells alcoholic beverages.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1431	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 1998 is amended as follows:(a)under the heading. 610 Directorate-General for Drugs and Drug Addiction Item 70 Grants to abstinence organisations, etc. the keyword may be replaced.b. Cape. 610Directorate of Agents [[(see section 4.4). cap. 3610)]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1553	It is the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right that have the option.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1575	It is the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right that have the option.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1592	Here the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1605	During the debate, Mr Tom Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-01.ana.ud2305e1651	There is no record.
