ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e24	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 25 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Work Party 50 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 20 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given to the exchange of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each party group and after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e35	The Economic and Social Committee's budgetary procedure covers the framework areas 9, 10 and 11, and that is the issue of this Storting. Business – businesses, owners and employees – are constantly meeting new demands for change and increased competitiveness. Norwegian businesses are particularly internationally oriented and therefore also exposed to international cyclical changes, international competition and not least to changes in the economic environment at home that could change competition with other countries. For this reason, it is not possible to isolate industrial policy into any budget area, but it must be seen as part of a whole in which economic policy, research, education and, not least, the development of infrastructure are an important element — in order to have mentioned one of the factors affecting the development of business. There is broad agreement in this Chamber that it is necessary to adopt a tight budget to ensure that our competitiveness does not deteriorate. It must be a common objective to contribute to the absence of a peculiar cost development and a peculiar level of interest that would be detrimental to competitiveness and thus also to employment. On this basis, I am very pleased with the priorities that the Government has made, and have largely been endorsed through the adjusted centre layout. In my speech during the budget debate last year, I addressed the need to pursue a more active and targeted rural policy than has been the case in the 1990s, and it is reassuring to note that the 1999 budget thus marks a roadblock, as it has been possible to find room for prioritising the rural instruments within a particularly tight budgetary framework. Within a short time frame of 5 minutes, I will not go into this further, but just note that the Government is well-informed with the district policy offensive that is necessary if it is to be possible to counteract the centralisation we see at all levels of society. Government Action Plan for Small Enterprises ‘Starting and running a business in Norway’, St.meld. No 41 for 1997-98, Enterprise policy into the 21st century, and St.meld. No 51 for 1997-98, perspectives on the development of the Norwegian fishing industry, where the last two are under consideration in the Committee, are important contributions to the better use of our rich natural resources, to promote innovation and to ensure employment both in existing and new enterprises. These three issues, which I have mentioned, are also important contributions to ensuring that rural policy is properly pursued. There are some areas in the Committee's configuration I want to get a little bit closer to. The government of Jagland proposed in the State budget for 1998 that the rates of aid for shipbuilding should be reduced. This was continued by the government of Bondevik. During 1998, there has been a significant decline in orders to Norwegian shipyards. This is not a strange phenomenon. We now see a strong decline in new orders also in other European countries, so there is a lot to suggest that the situation has several reasons. New orders in 1997 were twice as large as in a normal year. This may have excluded some of the contracts that would otherwise be concluded in 1998 and has also led, as the Stortinget is aware, to the need for a significant additional allocation of cap. 966 for the current year. Furthermore, in my opinion, the setback, especially in the economy of the Asian countries, has led to a reduction in demand for ships as well. In any case, the situation in an industry of high employment and district policy importance is of course not irrelevant, and the members of the Committee from the central parties have also requested that the situation in Norwegian shipyards be closely monitored and that the competitive relationship with other countries be assessed against the presentation of the revised national budget, so that action can be taken, if necessary, at that time. The fishing industry forms the main basis for employment and residence in large parts of Coast Norway. The industry is now Norway’s second largest export industry with an export value of DKK 30 billion in 1998. I can therefore only note with satisfaction that there has been room for increased appropriations in this area in the budget we are discussing today. I would just like to mention here briefly the importance of an intensified commitment to research, fleet renewal, capacity adjustment and resource management to take care of the long-term perspectives and opportunities for industry development. It is also appropriate to mention the need for financial participation in the development and upgrading of ports in an appropriate manner, so that the industry can be adequately served, which has also been met by far on the road in the budget under consideration today. The centre party is satisfied that the negotiated result of the agricultural negotiations has been endorsed, with the Progress Party and the Right agreeing to remove the investment levy under the negotiated arrangement. This is important because it involves a sustained cost reduction of nearly 400 million. kr, a particularly important contribution to reducing costs in order to meet future WTO negotiations. Finally, I will be allowed to comment on the proposal that has been distributed to the representatives' seats, a proposal that is justified on the grounds that there has been an error in the proposal that has been included in the voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e63	Odd Roger Enoksen has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e68	I note that the chairperson of the committee, the representative, Mr Enoksen, is largely satisfied with the budget presented and the commitment it has received in the Stortinget. Now there'll probably be a lot of people who think it's not a full connection, because there's a lot of things that have changed in Stortinget. The central party says that they are busy in districts and district policies, and then often different support schemes are discussed. In this context, it is important to bear in mind the major rural policy, the creation and maintenance of jobs in the districts that it is natural for them to be in the districts. The shipbuilding industry is an industry where this is the case. Now I hear that the Enox again refers to the deposit proposition from last year, but there must be limits to how many years you can show it. The Labour Party rejected a reduction in support rates in Stortinget last year, we have held on that page, and we are still going to hold it. Does Enoksen think it is good district policy to make Norwegian shipyards less competitive in a situation where competition for the assignment is greater than ever? In addition, I would like to hear if Enoch is content to reduce some of the important items for institutions, measures that support and help business, perhaps especially during the start-up phase. These are measures that, either called the NORTRA, the Institute of Technology or the Business Guide Service, have major ringing effects. Can the Enox assure us that the Business Guide Service in some form or another will be kept up when the money for this purpose is now zeroed out?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e79	It is explicitly stated by the Government that it is expected that the Business Advisory Service will be maintained within the traditional SND schemes. I assume that it will be done, and among other things. For this reason, significant increases in the allocation of SND have been made in relation to what has been done in previous years. I have no problem talking about what is proposed by the district policy measures of this Government. What is presented by this Government is the strongest commitment to targeted regional policy measures that have been taken in this decade, with an increase of nearly 900 million. D in relation to the last year's budget, if all areas are included. Of course, this includes SND as a large part of it, but also in other important areas a significant increase has been made possible. So to the yard support. I agree, of course, that Norwegian shipyards represent a significant part of employment and business in the District of Norway. It is therefore important to take care of this industry. We are not going to join in and facilitate job wrecking in Norwegian shipyards. But we must not forget that this industry had an order intake in 1997 that was twice as large as they had ever had before, and that led to the Stortinget having to grant almost SEK 1.4 billion – if I do not remember faults – in the yard support for the current year. This industry has, for a period of this year, simply had difficulties in obtaining skilled labour. You've had trouble doing the job you've had. And then we've seen a pretty strong drop in activity. We have also seen this in other countries. We see it in several European shipyards, we see it in Asian shipyards, and we see it in Norwegian shipyards. But as the centre parties have said, it is important to monitor and come back to this, if it turns out that there is a reduction in the rates of aid that has primarily caused us to have a fall in activity in Norwegian shipyards.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e88	Seed funds are part of the long-term strategy of the Government and thus the Center Party. At present, there is an investment fund for the interior of the East because the START fund does not fulfil its role as a regional fund. According to information, there is an undertaking to subscribe for a capital of well over 70 million. kr, and in order to provide a powerful fund, it is estimated that there is a minimum capital requirement of 100 million. kr. The majority of the Committee, of which the Centre Party is a member, therefore asks for an assessment to be made of the establishment of a so-called Seed Fund for the Inner East. Is there a seed fund to be the substance of the government's business package and is what Mr Enoxen believes should solve the business problems in Norway during the low economic cycle?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e95	Yes, in fact, I believe that the Seed Fund, together with the other focus on rural policy measures, on SND’s instruments, is an extremely important contribution in building up the existing business life, providing budding, creating new start-ups. And I have to be very brief to say that it surprises me that this question comes from the Progress Party, which is proposing to wind up all of these targeted schemes that are designed to take care of and develop Norwegian business. I believe that it is important that the state should also be involved and take responsibility for this piece, including by financial means. I believe that what has been done here is a very important contribution. Of course, I very much appreciate the fact that the Progress Party is among those who, in turn, choose to support these proposals, but it is amazing when the representative of the same party who wants to wind up the whole scheme, asks if you think that you have granted enough. Of course, everyone could want more money, but that's what it's been possible to do within the budgetary framework we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e100	Enoxsen's Lundtigen party trap, a year ago, as a short-term measure, had to increase interest rates to meet the economic challenge of the time. It's now made Enoxen talk about the strange interest rate level. He's right about that. It's actually up to three times higher than it is in our main competitor country. Gudmund Restad stated correctly yesterday that Norway had been a member of the EU, probably the level of interest rates in Norway would be 3pst. Without exaggerating, it means for a household that it pays an extra cost of up to NOK 50000 per person. years if you have 1 million. Indebtedness. If you are a small business owner or are responsible and – not to be too hard on you – have a debt burden of about 10 million. kr, which is not quite unusual, the difference quickly becomes 1⁄2 million. NOK, and there is a lot of money. I have tried with my best will to read the special comments of the centre parties in connection with today's budgetary procedure, and I cannot find a single instruction from the centre on how to bring interest rates down in the short term. But if I am completely wrong, and are the things I have not discovered, I ask Enoxen to tell us where to find the instructions that can be the message to the Norwegian people and to small businesses in particular. Or is it that the interest rate has now reached a level that for Lundtigen and the Senterpartie is on a comfortable rental?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e107	What's happened in the last few years is probably full evidence that Per Olaf Lundtägen was right at the time. But include that Per Olaf Lundtigen has never talked about an interest rate level of 10 pst. Per Olaf Lundtigen spoke about the high level of activity we had in the Norwegian economy a year ago, with a loan increase of NOK 140 billion. We are now discussing tightening up the state budget of DKK 8 to 10 billion, and it is going to make the difference whether to restore confidence in the Norwegian economy, cool down the economy to get cost developments and interest rates under control. So we had a loan increase in 1998 of 140 million. kr as a consequence, among others the interest rate was at one of the lowest levels that it has historically been. Lundtigen thought that this was a bit too low, and I actually think that most people today agree with him. Now we see that we've got a sudden stop in the economy, and of course no one has wanted an interest rate of 10 pst. It is lethal in relation to both private households, business and public sector developments, which also have large, increased interest rates. But I actually don't think there is anyone here, nor Ivar Kristiansen, who in the short term expects interest rates to come down to the level it was at the beginning of 1998. I refuse to believe that the representative Kristiansen Hus may have passed the fact that the entire budget is designed to control the Norwegian economy, that interest rates should be reduced as a consequence of restoring confidence in the Norwegian economy. In fact, there is no reason to have had the pressure against the crown that you have had with increasing interest rates. But, of course, it should be included in this picture that today we have an oil price that is lower than it has been in many years, an oil price that greatly affects both the krone price, the Norwegian economy as a whole and, therefore, the interest rate. The Right too has joined the economic system and wants to tighten up the confidence in the Norwegian economy. I also note that there are actually some economists who believe that you are tightening up too much. I don't think so. I think what you've done is necessary, but that should be enough.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e121	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e125	The economic policy pursued by the ongoing government is, in many ways, the most important framework conditions for both Norwegian industry and fisheries and agricultural industries. Anxiety in the currency market, a high level of interest rates and a strong rise in prices can only be compensated to a small extent by the means we are discussing in the trade budget today. It is therefore natural that Norwegian industry now requires stability and governance. The Bondevik government, above all, has had no will and ability to control and take responsibility. When something doesn't go as it should, or there's nothing happening at all, it's owed to others. Above all, it is the responsibility of the government of Jagland, but also of the Stortinget. It is now time that Bondevik's government called and took responsibility for what she does, and what she does not do. The transition from a time in the opposition marked by a policy of promise that meant giving more to everything was enough. Now the government and the various state councils must have realized that there are strategic choices for the country and each of us they do every day. With the proposals for the sale of state-owned parts of various enterprises, even partial privatization, one seemed to have no strategy other than to sell, to sell to obtain income to cover different expenditure on the government budget. The sale of state-owned parts of business should be based on a more long-term strategy — which should be based on different considerations, such as national, resource-based, or an assessment of long-term national ownership in the interests of society. Selecting one to sell should introduce the released resources into new owners' parts or funds, where returns are used to create new businesses. There are probably a lot of business owners in small and medium-sized enterprises like wear and tear. Several of these had expectations that Sponheim State Council would make it easier both to drive and to get started. Today they're sitting at the bottom of their head. All the support measures relating to small and medium-sized enterprises are substantially reduced or completely absent in the proposal for the State budget that we are discussing today. The Reiarane, on the other hand, is the screen. Of course, the reduction in the entitlement to nutrition research is to the detriment of both large and small enterprises. This is particularly true in the long term. In contrast, reductions in the fees of the Institute of Technology, the Council of Exports and NORTRA occur mainly on the smaller companies. The Business Advisory Service, which is primarily targeted at measures to raise and stand up new enterprises and products, has been brought to a standstill. Private consultants should take over, but the permissions are gone. The situation for the yard industry shows clearly that the economy has turned upside down. The industry is struggling in reverse, but the Government and the Support Party, the Right and the Advance Party, do not prioritize it. Norwegian Shipyard has given a message: The order books are empty. The Norwegian authorities are losing their supply, just as much of your level of aid is lower in Norway than in Europe otherwise. The working party said all this last year. There might be a reason to ask: What is needed for the Government to take the signal? That it's not enough for us to warn, we're done. We have long recorded that the government party does not take into account warnings from the Labour Party. On the other hand, it is bad that when a whole diet gives a message, it doesn't make any impression. The difference in the aggregate sum between the Workers' Party's primary proposal for the Food Budget and the Government's proposal is not large. About 125 million. kr is still a lot of money, it is the device when it comes to the use of available resources, which makes the big difference. The working party seeks to help the small and medium-sized enterprises that need help. Furthermore, we will bring the conditions of competition for the many Norwegian shipyards along the coast to European level. This should be a profile after the Left Party and the Center Party's heart. Fishing industry is another important industry for Norway, especially for Norway. In this important area one must be able to say that there is a high degree of agreement between the Labour Party and the Government Party. In the fisheries sector, the disparity between the Right and the Advance Party is apparent. I'm especially pleased that the Department is now taking the shellfish industry seriously, and I hope it will be followed up in time, so that this industry will come up and stand. Only then will we see what the development potential of the industry is. Marine research must be given priority, as proposed by the Labour Party in its alternative budget. In the case of structural changes in the fishing industry, which is clearly there, we shall return to the handling of St.meld. No 51 for 1997-98. The agricultural industry is an important district industry, with a strong change in the framework. Achieving the objectives of agricultural policy requires innovation, innovation that does not just scratch the surface. One must have the will to discuss the non-prejudice support system, the relationship between the farmer and the peasant cooperative – all links between the farmer and the consumer. If we are to have a viable rural agriculture in the future, and what the Labour Party wants us to have, one must have the will to discuss the industry without prejudice. The agricultural negotiations produced a strange result. There are clear statements that taxes and charges are not negotiable. The government was equally fully committed to managing the negotiation results by making the investment fee the negotiating theme. On top of this, the government is now finding out in the budget negotiations that the level of support was 100 million. kr too high. It's probably not just us in the Labour Party who's wondering what's going on. The committee's leader, Odd Roger Enoksen, said that the regional policy effort that will take place after the budget that the Stortinge discusses these days is the largest in the last ten years. I must honestly say that I was able to get the overview of the SND bet over the last few years and come to a completely different result. What is the actual ratio is that the budget for the next year's district bet has a lot of small specks. I actually thought it would be a good idea to focus more on actions that have shown that they work, than to set up new actions that do not know what will result. But I have realized that it has been important for this government to make its mark by proposing new, inexperienced measures. I'm pretty sure the result will show that what's tried out is also what gives the best results. Several of the Workers' Party's representatives will later go to the depths of the various budget areas. I only want to finalise the Work party's suggestions in the configuration dialog.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e159	Kjell Opseth has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e164	The representative, Opseth, came into his article on innovation and tried to play on the difference between the current government and the Workers' Party. I get a feeling, with the small number sizes that make the difference between the Labour Party's alternative and the sitting government, that the representative Opseth is trying to provoke an artificial or imaginary enemy to have someone to fight against. But the differences are very small, and he had to admit that. He mentioned agricultural policy so far, and that now one had to be willing to discuss the agricultural industry. A few years ago, we had a labor party government with Gunhild Island as Minister of Agriculture. Just from the Workers' Party, there was an emerging alternative when she sat on her farm in the South-Trundelag and talked about efficient and competitive production, and we got St.prp. No 8 for 1992-93 Developed agriculture. Gunhild The eye started to take this with the consumer and food prices in its mouth, but now I am calling for this at the Workers' Party. Where has it become of the new, fine way of thinking that we experienced in the time of Gunhild Island. My question to the Labour Party is: what do we really have to expect from the largest party in the country in terms of agricultural policy and the possibility for many consumers to get lower food prices?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e171	New thinking in the Labour Party means that one will take it step by step. The innovation in the Progress Party is largely to be done away with, and it never leads to anything good. I can assure the representative Hedstrom that the innovation within the Labour Party in the area of agricultural policy will continue in good spirit and in accordance with what was drawn up in St. pp. No 8 for 1992-93. But I repeat: there is a big difference between raging Norwegian agriculture, as the Progress Party and the representative Hedstrøm also add up to the setting we are discussing today, and taking the necessary steps to adapt the industry to a new time. I am overconfident that the representative Hedstrøm has registered that process in the Workers' Party, and we also invite the Progress Party and the representative Hedstrøm to be involved in it, but then one has to put away the idea of furying the agricultural industry before one has thought the whole thing out.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e176	The Labour Party notes that a goal in agriculture is to ‘reduce the price level of Norwegian food’. Against this background, it is with great wonder that we see that the Labour Party is opposed to liquidating the investment fee of 7 pst. In the debate on the agricultural agreement on 18 June of this year, the agricultural spokesperson of the Labour Party, Hanssen, said the following: ‘The loss of the investment levy is a matter that has to be addressed in relation to the State budget.’ I note that the Labour Party is turning its thumb down when it is up to removing this cost of 400 million. kr per. year of Norwegian agriculture. For the Christian People's Party, it has been of vital interest to contribute to a clean-up of this with the investment fee. It is both unreasonably and unjustifiably that new construction of an operating building is exempt from charges, while maintenance costs are subject to charging. A special forest machinery is exempted, while other technical equipment for agriculture is subject to a charge. Animal fees are exempt, while medicine and scalpel must pay an investment fee. We thought this was untimely. The question will then be: The Synest Workers' Party that this is unimaginable?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e188	It is not difficult to identify many oddities when it comes to investment taxes, whether it is now within agriculture or within other industries. But the investment fee is now an entry. And when it is that the Storting has determined that it is not to be negotiated about taxes and taxes, it is up to the governments to decide whether they will follow the Storing or not. But they take a chance when they choose to do something that is wrong with what the Great Government has said, and that's what this Government has done. The Labour Party took a stand back already when we were dealing with the agricultural settlement. It must not come as a surprise to the representative of the Aukan and the Christian People's Party that in this round we are now going to oppose the removal of the investment fee. Take the Government with a proposal in budgetary terms to remove the investment levy for agriculture and forestry, and then we will look forward to it without prejudice to the other elements of a budget. But to bake it into a negotiation, we can't be involved in it for reasons of principle. What would be the next area where taxes and taxes are collected, if we first left this principle? It should have been the government's first thought, but also the government's party should have advised that it does not.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e193	It is a well-known fact that the growth of employment in Norway today takes place primarily in small and medium-sized enterprises. Then it's a paradox for me, when I listen to the Chief Spokesman of the Workers' Party in the industrial policy about all the goodwill that oppositionists want to exercise for these companies, that at the same time they are being pushed away, for example. personal and family-owned companies, wanting, for example, to remove the roof of the sharing model. The identification rules are being tightened up, an increase in inheritance fees is proposed, and there is no reluctance to increase taxes on wealth, etc. In other words, we are exacerbating the conditions of what is undergrowth, which presupposes the growth of employment in the country, while the giants pass by in silence. Statoil today delivers half a dividend and rather spends its money on one – as I see it – unfriendly purchase of a national competitor, it is going badly economically for the time being, where the scholars are arguing about the valuation of the company with a difference of several tens of billions, and there are huge cost gaps in various fields of development, take Åsgard, for example, with a gap of 10 billion – without any consequences. Of course, something like this would not have gone unnoticed in a corporation. Does anyone think this would go well in Hydro or Saga? I am also tempted to mention Kværner in this connection, but I will not. The question to Opseth is then: Is the Workers' Party today, on this basis, mature to discuss the reorganisation of the country's largest company? It would generate income growth in the giant class of the country. And could the Hydro model, for example, be a contribution to increasing trust in the company?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e202	I can assure the representative Kristiansen that we are busy with small and medium-sized enterprises. I myself have a background from a department in an enterprise that was relatively small, and then there was no tax that was the great eight we had throughout the year, but it was if we could bring out something that we could pay taxes on. The most important thing for all companies is to have a framework condition that makes a thing to make a surplus so that one can pay taxes and then pay an admiring tax with joy. I'm sure there are a lot of company managers who have it that way. Then we might disagree about how we're taxing the excess, and we're clear about that. It's not new that Right prefers not to pay taxes at all, but how they will finance the community's expenses, they say little about it. So he's attacking Statoil. Yeah, I'm going to say that it's not just Statoil who's had excesses on their projects, it's also had private companies, so there's no specialty. And the Labour Party sees no reason to sell property in a company that goes well, that brings dividends to the state, that we can use next time. The private thing is to sell away what goes bad, but the state is going to sell out what goes well – and not just according to the Right, I also see the Government going with such thoughts.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e211	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e214	I want to devote some time to part of the budget chapters for which I am responsible for the matter, and first the Industrial Protection Board, which aims to provide effective protection for inventions, trademarks and patterns against unwanted imitations. In the case of an inventor, such protection is a necessary competitive advantage, while at the same time it is necessary for the transfer of ownership to others and the conclusion of licensing agreements. Patenting work can be both complicated and costly. More than half of all inventions are actually inventions that others have done before, at the same time about. one third of the funds used for research and development used for projects that others have already solved and that are documented in the patent literature. Here, the information department of the Patent Board has a task by actively providing information in order to prevent costly and unnecessary duplication of work. There was a long dissatisfaction among inventors because the state made a heavy contribution to the business needs of protecting its products. Between 1989 and 1995, the Patent Board went by 140 million. kr in profit. There were nice figures for the state, but still nice for inventors and other job creators. The precious arrangement scared creative Northmen from testing their ideas. It was too expensive to apply for a patent and pay progressive annual fees. The operation that the Patent Board was originally intended to be self-financing, i.e.: that the fee for the processing and annual fees for the protection of patents, trade mark and design rights shall be balanced against the expenses of the Board. It was therefore necessary to do something in this area. The Progress Party was alone on a proposal for self-financing already at the budgetary procedure in 1992 but subsequently succeeded in bringing together a majority behind the proposal to adapt the revenue to the operation of the Patent Board in line with the requirement for self-financing. The present government followed this up with proposals for a reduction in the tax rates on patents and trade marks with effect from 1 January 1997. Furthermore, no increase in the rates is proposed in 1999, and the increase in revenue in the coming years is based on an expected increase in the number of applications received. As the situation now is, patent fees are at a favourable and lower level than in our neighbouring countries. It is nice that at least in one area we have lower fees. A small competitive advantage may be of importance, especially for individual patent applicants and small enterprises. The number of patent applications in this country has long been below the average in countries with which it is natural to compare. Because there is a clear link between patent activity and the industrial development of a country, there is every reason to take this seriously. Under 25 pst. of the applications to the Patent Board come from Norwegian applicants. The proportion of Norwegian applications has been reduced despite the fact that we have been in a boom. It's thought-provoking that our own have not managed to gain a more dominant role at home. It is therefore particularly important to stress the importance of the visibility of the services of the establishment through information and training measures, in order to increase the interest in industrial rights. If a patent is not signed when the idea is good, or the rightholder allows the patent to go out by not paying the annual fee, it is primarily a personal loss, but also a national loss. We know that foreign interests vacuum the whole of Europe for good ideas that lack patent protection. This negative trend is important to reverse, and the budget proposal now proposes an increase in appropriations of 8.3 pst. There is an overall committee which primarily or sub-sidly proposes to reduce expenditure, so that the expenditure of the Patent Board for 1999 can once again be adapted to the revenue in line with the requirement of self-financing. The Patent Board plans to introduce a new and complete IT system for processing and communication. This will be time-saving and labour-saving for customers, but will also represent a rationalisation and efficiency gain for the Patent Board itself. It can provide cost reductions and, hopefully, lower rates in the long term. Another chapter for which I am responsible, the State Inventors' Guidance Office, has a unanimous committee in terms of appropriations for next year. Although this implies a downward adjustment compared to the original draft budget, it is an increase compared to the current year. The main objective is to support good ideas until commercially profitable exploitation. The primary target population is independent inventors, and the guidance office concentrates the funds on fewer inventions and on projects with particularly high commercial development potential. In order to follow up ideas and inventions across the country, activities in the districts will now be strengthened. Inventors represent an important innovation resource and a contribution to the development of profitable projects and new jobs. Although they only have some pro-miles of what goes into research and development, they are behind 20 pst. of the patents granted in Norway, while the research communities achieve a lower share, this being a small indication of what is left in development and product renewal. We want a long-term need for new jobs in the competitive sector. These jobs are mainly created in one-man and small enterprises often, based on new products and business ideas. Therefore, it is important that there is a climate in which ideas that are lifted from the inventor's drawing board, laboratory, workshop or kitchen bench find environments. I hope that the allocation of this chapter can stimulate inventors and contribute to industrial innovation in Norway. The Progress Party is most distinct from the other parties through a marked cut in the allocation of food and district policy instruments through the State's Food and Rural Development Fund and agricultural appropriations. All, except the Progress Party, continue to have a strong sense of state food and district policy instruments. There is still no willingness to settle with the old transfer thinking that the country's money bag should solve the country's problems. And it is worrying when the political majority wants to doubt today's costly and inefficient solutions. In fact, there will be an accident for the country and future generations if this is to break the nation's ability to pay the welfare society costs in the years to come. What's really going on, for example? too many entrepreneurs in the start-up phase? In the tough period of establishment, it is public that it is estimated to take over 40 pst. in direct income from each krona invested in new activities. Employers’ taxes, personal taxes, value added tax on the value added of the company, investment taxes and public contributions help to crack many in the beginning, or in another way: the government’s distribution policy removes the foundation from the founders, while at the same time leaving funds and support schemes to the SND to try to remedy the imbalances they themselves are creating. But then politicians have achieved something in addition: innovation has been made dependent on public systems of establishment and activity. The founder has entered a new phase, he must market his projects for the public opinion apparatus, forces and ingenuity in order to tailor projects to the public support apparatus. The budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs alone provides for a budget of billions for this purpose. The Progress Party believes that the best industrial policy is achieved by laying down tax, tax and legal rules that encourage businesses in general. Think about the billions of dollars circulating in the SND system or other public systems that have been used to reduce taxes and charges in general, and I think there could have been a lot more jobs created. In addition, the businesses would manage that was most competent, not those who have learned the art of getting a suction tube into public crates. The development of business and the establishment of enterprises must be based on real profitability, and it is not possible to identify the winners in advance, as at present. It must be more profitable to take risks and collect a profit. Then we can't continue to have a wealth tax on the world top. The taxes on wealth contribute to the fact that capital savings do not so easily identify the path to small enterprises or innovation processes. By introducing good, long-term, predictable framework conditions, we will be able to improve our competitiveness. Both small savers and other investors will find it attractive and sensible to make investments. Nothing is more pleasant for an established business manager and increases his performance than creating competitive jobs in Norway. With framework conditions that provide good opportunities for profit, forces will be released and mobilised in a market system. The founder no longer has to feel lonely and alone. Subcontractors, demanding customers and the surrounding environment will be more easily mobilised, but an absolute prerequisite for doing so is to take a cap to improve tax and tax conditions. It's the safest way to stop the witch hunt for innovators in our country, because it becomes attractive to invest in business and innovation. The government's and the other parties' agricultural proposals mean that huge transfers will continue to flow to professionals in a single industry, a large part of which is part-time and hobby farmers. It's sad that you're always giving in to press groups. It will not be useful in the long run to make the Norwegian people believe that the special interests are being realised because the authorities want to continue the Norwegian welfare, our rural culture and housing. If we continue to use the oil money in this way, it can in the long run be a demise of social protection and our most important goods of well-being. The alternative of the Progress Party means a settlement with this subsidy policy and a dead-end to a misguided agricultural policy. We find no possibility in our budgets to provide a small and ever smaller group of jobs and income security at the taxpayers' expense. The bill as, among other things, Our companies and those who work there will have to pay will be $20 billion per year. years. The bill is set at the average farmer, giving NOK 275 000 a year through import screens, transfers and other support, or NOK 20,000 a year for a two-child family. Today's situation requires action, and it's not the farmers' special interest organizations that help humanity. They are the main opponents of a competitive, efficient, rational, profitable and consumer-friendly agricultural industry. Therefore, the Progress Party will eliminate laws, regulations, rules and bureaucrats, while eliminating passive and drug-like subsidies that are destroying an entire industry. I would like to address the proposals No. 4-9 on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right and proposals No. 10-14 on behalf of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e254	Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e260	It was both amazing and interesting to right Hedstrøm talking about agricultural policy in the row change with the representative Opseth instead and also in his own posts. He asked Opseth what can be expected of the Labour Party when it comes to agricultural policy in the future. Heath flow also brought with it a rather rosy mention of the island's agricultural policy, while at the same time he has more than any other last in connection with the agricultural policy – and now – has been hard hit precisely by the policy drawn up in St. pp. No 8 for 1992-1993 on developing agriculture. Hedstrom said something similar during the debate on agricultural policy: «As a progress party representative, I had hoped that this year's agricultural settlement would mean the start of a completely necessary job with the conversion and efficiency of the Norwegian waste farm, but I was wrong. The government has not fixed any new price, but only proposes a cautious price adjustment in the direction of the smaller market, more country. This means that huge transfers will continue to flow to the practitioners within a single industry, a large part of which is part-time or hobby farmers. And the Workers' Party agrees." Hedstrom further argues that it is incomprehensible ‘that the political majority wishes to continue the destruction of resources through a misguided agricultural and district policy that has almost developed into a failure’. The Party of Progress will ‘cut fresh in transfers’ and ‘open up more competition and market management, which may force structuralisation’ and much more. Then I have to ask Hedstrøm: how well does he feel now in the company he is in, in the bourgeois coalition that has just secured the largest transfer of history to Norwegian agriculture, including the non-investment tax? What can be expected of the agricultural policy of the Progress Party in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e274	I think that is the basis for repeating and praising the Gunhild Eye, which was so brave that she dared to take a new course – at least an initial course from the Workers' Party. We know that she got a lot of countermeasures from District Norway and the farmers. She had it difficult, but she dared to start that development with small steps. I get hope, based on what the representative Opseth said, that you now want to look further at this. But we must not go too slow, so that we bottle up Oil-Norway and the taxpayers too much money before the Workers' Party gets in on the right course. So until that representative Rudihagen was inside. The main proposal of the Progress Party is one thing, with a significant multi-billion-billion-dollar cut in the agricultural sector, because we believe that this area must be operated much more rationally and efficiently, and perhaps with a good deal of fewer farmers. Because if a nutritional basis disappears, we also believe that the basis for housing can disappear. It's a flexibility we have to have in any modern society, we don't have to cement a society so it gets expensive and bad. But it is clear that in the budget compromise we have reached with the Bondevik government, we are keeping to the nose, but we accept this subsidiaryly. We are promoting our primary proposals in the financial position, but when they are down there, we have agreed to a settlement because we do not get any tax increase in Norway in the first place. It is actually the first time in the 25-year history of the Progress Party that we have not received it. [[The President clubs.]] Taxes have been reduced, but the same year the fees have increased the more. So we're in and out of history in today's Norway by the fact that tax and tax pressures have not increased now in 1998. [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e288	Number is too long
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e291	Hedstrom just said that what they had been getting through in this budget agreement was that there was no one crown increase in taxes and taxes. That's not true. This agreement has given us zero dollars in tax increases for those of us who have income, also for those of us who have wealth and also capital income – that's right. Most of us have been taxed, and mostly to the richest. But there's someone who's been getting tax increases, and it's the sick and those who have health problems. They've got a tax increase of 700 million. They have got from this agreement. In addition, municipal taxes and specialities will increase at the top of it again. So what Hedstrom says is not right. Then I want to get an explanation from Hedstrøm, which apparently has a principleal attitude that industries will not receive support. Then I have to ask for a clear explanation as to what is the big difference between the shipping industry and all other industries, as the shipping industry is given a completely different kind of consideration and circumstantial from the Progress Party. I have read with great amazement the position of the Business Committee, where the Progress Party turns all its argument completely on its head as soon as they are in the vicinity of the shipping industry. Then there is no way of how important it is with support and tax relief, while all other industries obviously have to cope on their own.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e298	It's quite right, as the representative Karin Andersen here says, that the Progress Party has a principleal view of a lot of things and is trying to implement it. But it is clear that in the course of a year, cutting off all subsidies in this country, the Progress Party also understands primarily that it is unrealistic to do. But we are, after all, all that party that sucks most deserted in a year, among other things. agricultural subsidies of NOK 6.5 billion, but we cannot implement it in all areas. As far as shipping is concerned, we have protected it because the ship's industrial cluster is, in total, economically profitable. Although we grant subsidies to seafarers and want to maintain a 20 pst reimbursement scheme. as an estimate to reduce the gap between the costs of having Indians, Filipinos, Poles, etc. And the Norwegians on Norwegian ships, we do it to continue Norwegian competence. We know there's a fuss in Norwegian shipping. If Norwegian officers and Norwegian seafarers are not replaced, things can go wrong in the long term. And this industry that is totally competitive – everyone here has probably heard lectures from the Norwegian School of Commerce and Torger Reve about the marine industrial cluster. In addition, it has a district profile, with a total of 70 000–80 000 jobs in District Norway. We also want to look at this sector in the long term, but have chosen to give priority – significant cut – to other areas that contribute to much lower value creation. If we, for example, look at agriculture, we know that over 70 pst. [[The President clubs.]] of what a farmer serves in agriculture are subsidies.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e307	Now it's time to talk.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e310	We have heard a dedicated contribution from the representative Hedstrøm on the need to reduce and eliminate taxes and charges. I have a very brief question for the representative Hedstrøm, because he gives the impression of being principled on this requirement. I am surprised that it required a subsidiary vote from the Progress Party in order to meet one of their wishes to remove charges. I am thinking, of course, of the agricultural investment tax, which is 400 million. kr for that industry – and there is a loss as a result of the agricultural negotiations. So the progress party is mainly opposed and wants to keep this fee instead of being involved in implementing its principle and primary view of removing charges. It might be interesting given the post we have heard from the representative Hedstrøm, to get a little more information on why it is so important to keep taxes that you are aware of and that you do not want to remove in agriculture, while for other industries you can remove the same type of tax.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e317	It is right, as the representative of Mr Enoksen says, that the Progress Party wants to reduce taxes, taxes and public intervention and go far beyond other parties, because we want freedom to be restored to individuals and businesses that have been depressed by skyrocketing taxes and taxes for many years. But we want to see things in context. It says in our programme that we want to remove the investment tax. But we would like to see things in context, and what is the logical, practical, and sensible thing about the fact that businesses that have a much larger value creation than what agriculture does still have to pay an investment tax, while agriculture is going to drop? Here it's not logic and context. But as a subsidiary position and a principle of removing the investment tax, we have accepted this in the negotiations with the government parties. But we think this is pretty simple. If we're going to get jobs, we're going to have to go to the companies and ask, what is it that you're willing to expand your business, hire more people and stay in Norway? So what do we get? Yes, among others. to reduce and eliminate the investment levy, the employer’s levy and many other taxes and taxes. Then we get new jobs in Norway. At the same time, we must have a more positive attitude towards job creation. Every time they apply for a permit, a licence, a licence, a licence and a dispensation, we must give them a yes, if there are not very serious reasons to say no. The Progress Party represents a good economic policy that supports employers and facilitates them – not necessarily in the interests of employers, but in the interests of the employees, who thus get a job.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e322	: The chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e325	The boom in the state budget this year was relatively turbulent due to international unrest in the currency and energy markets. With such an open economy and an export-right business as the Norwegian one, it was the government's more solar duty to do what was in Norwegian government power to try to tighten in order to get interest costs down again. This was done, and the result for the three departments we are responsible for, we will finish today. As you know, the final result was not submitted. That's the way it must be in a minority government situation. Although there was a lot of noise here in the house and in the media, I have to say it's good to note that the two parties that make up the plurality with the government took responsibility and seven for a result the nation is well lit. I'll say I'm happy for that. Under the heading of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, Framework Area 9, I will note the following: In the future, it will be very important to ensure the conditions for active private ownership. I say all this now, but there will be a good chance to come back to this when treating St.meld. No 40 for 1997-98 on ownership of business. From my district, with a flora of many small businesses, which in many respects is a leader in its territory – not only in Norway, but also internationally – we know that most of these saw the light of day in individuals with a good idea and a lot of patience. And from the center's point of view, we're going to try to meet each other in a number of ways. First of all, when it comes to consulting, our goal is for an established entity not to walk from office to office. A door to advisory help must be the destination. One aspect of this thinking is the organisation of the Institute of Technology. It seems reasonable to see technological developments in Norway together with the repatriation of technologies and opportunities in an export market. This is true of the small enterprises with advanced products, but without the apparatus that is out of the hands of the larger actors. I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that, with the tight framework within which this budget had to be kept, during the committee discussion, we found room to strengthen the TI's budget by 3 million. kr. In a note that a group of committees is behind, we underline how much this institution has to say for the smallest businesses in this country, and also the contributions that the Institute of Technology can make to production engineering issues in our data every day. This is important. This one-door goal that I mentioned in relation to TI, we can also show by the cooperation that is ongoing between the Norwegian Disign Board and the SND. The aim must be to integrate design into SND’s programmes, thereby improving Norwegian product gradually. This must be the future. I would also like to mention that one of the goals of the Government is to get the most environmentally sound production methods. With regard to Chapter 947 of the Reimbursement Scheme, I am pleased that the agreement between the Centre and the two Cooperation Parties led to the continuation of this scheme. I would like to point out in particular what this virtue, this cooperation between business and government powers, means and still will mean for the part of Norwegian shipping that runs the Norwegian coast. Vert support, reduced from 9 pst. to 7 pst. last year, has been an important theme of this budgetary procedure. We all agree that this should be abolished. Since the order intake in 1997 was twice that in a normal year, it is difficult to conclude that this reduction of 2 pst. has decided that this year there is relatively little order entry. The centre party therefore says that if this reduction is to be seen to mean a great deal, we are willing to review it when considering the revision of the 1999 national budget. In the case of Framework Area 11, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Christian People's Party and the Government, with the support of a clear majority on the Stortinget, took important steps in the treatment of the budget last year. The aim was to close the gap between general income trends in society and income trends in agriculture. This year's agricultural policy followed up this. One of the elements in achieving this was the removal of the remainder of an investment fee that had already been paid. We closed this by getting a majority in favour of the Government by supporting the Cooperation Party, the Progress Party and the Right in this budget. It is hard to understand that the Labour Party could not be involved in this. They say that one of the objectives of their agricultural policy, among others. reduced the level of food prices. This would result in a sustained reduction in the cost of Norwegian agriculture of 400 million. kr per year. Norwegian agriculture must be able to supply the Norwegian population with a quality product in the long term. This must also be the objective when we enter into the required WTO negotiations in 1999. In addition, agriculture must aim to achieve more functions, such as taking care of the cultural landscape, and various forms of environmental care. This applies to both agriculture and forestry. With as little cultivated and cultivated soil as we have in this country, soil protection must increase the status of the years to come. This seems to be important for the Christian People's Party, not least from a management point of view. The warning messages on agriculture and forestry will be central to policy-making in these areas over the years to come. When it comes to Framework Area 10, the Ministry of Fisheries, I refer to other speakers from the Christian People's Party. Norwegian fisheries have always been very important for the Norwegian economy — this applies to both traditional fishing and farming. The Christian People's Party would like to still have a fishing grounds fleet. We have to say that the age of the fleet in Norway is getting high. At the same time, total capacity is above what is needed to cover available resources. I do not conceal that I would like to see a faster rate of replacement when it concerns the ships for years to come. A big challenge we are now facing is to accept internationally for a resilient coughing of pain and sales. Here it has to be another balanced catch, as we had in previous times.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e362	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e365	The government is busy with food. However, in the budgetary agreement between the centre parties, the Right and the Advance Party, the appropriations for food and animal control have been reduced. Both the Food and Animal Health Authorities have been cut. Why is the resources for control measures reduced? Does the Christian People's Party believe that the original proposals for the control of food after the removal of border controls were more than sufficient?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e370	It's true that we're busy with pure food. It will be one of the main tasks of Norwegian agriculture for years to come. The fact that you can document the food from the soil via the booth to the table will be important. When it comes to the tasks of the Food Authority, they will not change significantly for years to come. What will change is that we are now entering into negotiations for a new WTO agreement. The last time there were such negotiations, took the seven years, so the earliest time we can see changes here, is in that time aspect. This is quite long-term – I think we must be bidding on it. If more imports are opened, which I do not hope, we will have to review.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e377	The Christian People's Party clearly states that they want to have a fishing rage fleet and also local ownership of the fishing industry, but the party also states that one is not served with a wide dispensation scheme for industry in terms of ownership of the fleet. Does the Christian People's Party ignore the fact that for a number of areas it is absolutely necessary for industry to own its own boats in order to have sufficient access to raw materials? The Christian People's Party also points to the fact that the average age of the fleet has increased over many years, and that consideration of industry's competitive conditions and fishermen's safety at work suggests that this trend must be reversed. That is how far the Progress Party agrees. And it's pointed out that fishermen can use a number of schemes, both loans and grants, to modernise or build new ones. However, the Government clearly states that priority should be given to risk lending and regional development grants in areas A, Nord-Troms and Finnmark. Is the Government going to persist in a policy of discrimination? Is it not soon more important for the Government to add to sustainable instruments such as the ability to convert fisheries in North Norway from being a district policy to becoming a profitable industry?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e384	The representative Knudsen asks if we still stand for a fishing grounds fleet. The answer is yes. The fact that the fisherman is both fisherman and farm owner has long traditions – in my district and in Knudsen's district and in the north. It's an important principle, and as far as we're concerned, we're going to uphold that principle. When it applies to the fishing industry, which was question No. 2, we also see it so that where one can achieve a local ownership, that will be good. But we have to admit that it is very demanding today to be both a producer and an exporter. And that's capital-requiring, we know that. We have not least seen this during the current trip of the nutrition committee in six different counties, where we are talking to both fish and fish producers and exporters. So I don't want to say it's a must, but it's an advantage. The average age of the fleet I was quite thoroughly inside of my post, and it's clear that it's too high. It's too high in the north. It's too high in the south. And the fact that the Minister of Fisheries is trying to get it fixed, I'm happy to say hello.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e393	The representative, Auchan, said that he was pleased that the centre parties, the Prom Party and the Right had provided a result with which he was well pleased. I would like to take up a little bit of the points that were changed from the Government's original budget to what was adopted: In the field of ordinary income taxes, the Government proposed 29 pst. – and it was as the Right said, 28 pst. With regard to the period of responsibility of the companies for the sickness pay scheme, the Government proposed an extension of three weeks – as the Right said, 16 days. The electricity charge was proposed to be increased by 43.5 pst. – it remained as the Right said, unchanged. The government said yes to an increased fuel oil charge and went in for an economical fee – the right said no, and it turned down. The government proposed increases in the levy on wine and spirits and tobacco taxes — and there were no changes or reductions. The government would double the charge on combined cars – the right said no, and it turned down. The government said yes to the increase in other car charges – the right said no, and it turned down. The government would abolish the reimbursement scheme for seafarers – the right would maintain it, and it was to maintain it. In a newspaper that comes out every 14 days – it's a left-hand newspaper – it says: ‘Central Left persons characterise the budgetary agreement as better than the government’s original draft government budget.’» My question to Mr. Auchan is whether he agrees with these Left-People that the budgetary agreement now in place is better than the original one and, if so, why. And if, against assumption, he thinks it's worse – why does he think it's worse?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e407	I didn't quite get what kind of newspaper it was referred to, but I understood that it was a member newspaper. So given that, it wasn't so strange that it said what it said. It is clear that when one goes into negotiations, as one did now, it would have been sensational if the result had been a start from one side. It's completely unmistakable. At least I wouldn't have been in such a debate if I had been in Gabrielsen's position. So that's that side. When it applies to the different points downwards, I chose one of them. what Gabrielsen said about wine and spirits. It may surprise me a little bit that Gabrielsen took that particular example. As far as I know, the representative Gabrielsen and I are quite a few at that point, and none of us have wanted that fee to be reduced, I believe. When it applies to the combined car, that type of car is on the way out. It has been signalled by other European countries for many years, and the strange combination car is being rebuilt here especially for the Norwegian market. I recognize that it has clearly been a good offer for some families of children, but I think the solution that comes now will also be good.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e418	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e421	I just want to give Auchan a new opportunity in a three-minute post to possibly answer what I asked for. I asked him if he thought that the budgetary agreement we came up with is better than the original one, or if it isn't. In the case of wine and spirits fees, it does not matter to me whether they are high or low. The harvest's budget round has been marked by the fact that we have had a government that has not quite known where it would. Through the draft budget launched on 5 October, it sent out signals in several directions. There was an almost total destruction of the possibility of a nutrient profile by the government – until then – block independence. However, after budgetary negotiations until the end here in Stortinget, the budget has been given a profile that is not to be recognized – and whether or not I have to say so: thank you for that. That doesn't mean that at the next crossroads there's nothing more to talk about, far away from there. It's still a long way to go before we're at the Right Primary Positions in a number of areas. The important thing today is to establish that the changes made in the business sector have, in total, gone in the right direction. I assume that the Minister of Industry of the coming year will have far more joy in complying with a budget with the right hand stamp than in complying with the highly anti-business budget which was the starting point for the harvest rounds. Yes, I would say that with the correct marketing of the result the government came up with Right-wing help, perhaps the minister could start a never-small climb. At least I have registered that the central left-wing people recognize that the budget that is now being adopted is better than the government's own proposal. I also note that Norwegian industry is very grateful for the changes to which the Right contributed, and that the original budget in the business sector has almost been bombed flat. Even at a time of goodwill like this, it must be said that there was a long way between the good things about the original draft budget. However, it must be possible to say that the Right Impact was far-fetched, but the Government finally accepted the Right Claim to zero out the tax and tax scarfs. This main grip was for the Right the very most important. We know that this in itself will dampen the price rise to next year, and it will also be a positive contribution to the spring wage settlement. I think it is quite obvious that companies and people in general should not be charged new taxes at a time when the strangely high interest rates have almost completely eliminated. This, in my opinion, took an undue amount of time for the Government to admit – but of course: better late than never. The government’s proposed extension of the employer’s period to the sickness benefit scheme to three weeks was also halted. Despite the fact that both the Christian People's Party and the Left have programmed to reduce employers' costs of sick pay, they were therefore proposed to increase them for the third time. Here you could say that the Right helped to ensure that election vows in other parties' programs were not broken, by avoiding going in the opposite direction of what was promised to the voters. One of the economic areas in which the Government, through its draft budget, would have begun to decrease was the maritime industry in the broadest sense. First of all, the Government would have changed the tax conditions for the shipping industry to such an extent that it would undoubtedly have immediate consequences. In fact, the uncertainty that was created has in itself been very negative. Now this point was also put in order, but I hope and believe that the industry will be graced for more yes-policy in the tax field from this government. What was perhaps even more disappointing was that the Government would remove the reimbursement system for seafarers, a system that was as late as June this year dealt with in the Stortinget, and which, in fact, also the representatives of the government parties correctly pointed out not only was necessary but crucial for the development of the maritime industry. I sincerely hope that this government will soon realize that we are going to maintain and further develop the maritime industry, we must have framework conditions that stand in an international context. There is no use in a policy that is so short-sighted that vacuum-packed hams have longer shelf-life than absolutely essential framework conditions for this industry. We are talking about an industry that in many districts is absolutely crucial both for employment and housing. As for the yard support, I have to say that it is one of the areas where I am somewhat uncertain about the situation. It has been raised beyond doubt that Norwegian shipyards now have worse framework conditions than is the case for shipyards in other countries. This is because the yard support is at a lower level than our competitors. I'd say it's as simple as when I read the proposition, I get one impression of the situation, and when I read letters and input from the yard industry, I get a completely different one. I am therefore pleased that the problem of mutual assistance was also part of the budgetary agreement. I would like to say that if different levels of aid contribute greatly to the fact that Norwegian yards are no longer competitive, then something has to be done. I would like as much as I can, recommend to the Sponheim Council a personal commitment in this area. At the latest in the context of the revised national budget next year, the Stortinget must be presented with an overview of the situation. We cannot live with a situation that is such that the Norwegian shipbuilding industry is being built down because we cannot offer framework conditions similar to those in force in the countries with which we compete. I hope that is a broad recognition in Stortinget that internationally competitive framework conditions are essential for Norwegian industry and business, including for Norwegian shipyards. I can at least promise that it will not be on the right to get re-priorities to improve the conditions for the Norwegian shipbuilding industry. Another premise that is important for business planning is predictable framework conditions. The greatest weakness of the parliamentary and political situation we have is unforeseeable. For the Right, I want to make it clear that precisely the key predictability will be an important starting point for any future budgetary rounds with any government. I would say that any government that in this period is going to calculate with Right's support in a budgetary situation makes sense not to weaken the framework conditions of the creative business. The recent fall in oil prices are useful reminders that we do not live on oil alone, but that it is essential that our land-based business is given conditions that can help to secure our future well-being. The right-hand draft budget for the agricultural industry contributes to a strengthening of the uses where agricultural income forms the major part of the family's taxable income. I believe this is necessary to make these holdings more economically robust. and in order to ensure the future recruitment of professional agricultural operators. Continued structural development is necessary to exploit the potential for more efficient operation and a lower cost level of industry. Therefore, the right-hand side proposes a gradual conversion of the aid schemes so that the aid is more equal per year. unit produced, irrespective of the volume of production. The incentive schemes should be designed to stimulate labour input and efficient operation, whether large or small. Such conversion is particularly relevant in roughage-based production areas such as milk and sheepmeat. That is why we are proposing to raise the bottom-up of agricultural aid schemes from NOK 5000 to NOK 10 000. The right is proposing to abolish the fertiliser charge. Together with the Court’s proposal for lower taxes and taxes on business, it is an important contribution to reducing costs and increasing the profitability of agriculture. On the right, it is a central task for agriculture to produce collective goods such as food security, cultural landscapes and scattered housing. The instruments of agricultural policy need to be increasingly seen in the context of this objective. Public intervention in agriculture must, as far as possible, be directed directly at the good society that it wants to produce. Therefore, in order to achieve the objectives of food security, cultural landscapes and scattered housing, the Right wants the State aid to be gradually concentrated on five main types of instruments: area aid, livestock aid, annual works grants, district grants and freight subsidies. Finally, I would like to mention proposal No. 5, which is on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e453	The representative Gabrielsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e458	The representative Gabrielsen and Right are clearly concerned about business and business. And that's good. But when it comes to the problem, be left with the idea that the most important framework condition relates to taxation. Clearly, paying taxes is something that business shouldn't do. I'm going to be the first to admit that retained surpluses also help to strengthen the foundations of business and the different businesses, but it's in spite of everything that's even more important, as I've been in the past, to produce a surplus. There I must say that the Right is failing. When it comes to setting the basis for a new start-up and standing on your own, the Right is not included. 350 million. kr i cut on SND is a clear sign that they are not busy with the new thing to create and grow into the future. Nor is it so important when negotiating with the Government for a budget, to consider the Norwegian offshore and yard industry. It's not going to be a priority to get a system on in this equation. There are completely other things that are more important to the Right. I ask the representative Gabrielsen, what's the reason that it's only when the companies start to do well, that the Right has something to do with them?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e464	The representative, Opseth, was concerned that the only thing to do was to avoid paying taxes. No, what we've been busy about this fall is that the companies are not going to pay more taxes than what has been the case in the year we're in now. We made that demand in the negotiations. It was a claim that I registered that the Workers' Party was actually willing to accept, in the event that it would come into a negotiating situation. It was actually like there was not even any resistance at the national meeting of the Workers' Party to doing just that. So the fact that the Right made a settlement that meant that the companies are not charged new taxes and taxes, I am quite convinced that the Norwegian business community appreciates it. One shall be aware that the retained profits of the representative Opseth are the main means of building up equity in Norwegian companies. And if there's a problem in Norwegian companies, it's just the equity situation, and for that reason, many selective measures have had to be taken through public schemes to remedy this. First you collect a lot of taxes, then you distribute it again to some companies. With regard to the framework conditions in relation to distribution through the SND, local business funds, etc., I must say, with all due respect for those who sit and allocate these funds, that after being chairman of such boards, I believe that the business community is best served that they do not pay so much in taxes and taxes, and that they take care of the money in an excellent way themselves. I think that should also be the main approach of this House to this issue. For the Right, it is quite clear that, in terms of framework conditions, not least in the districts, this budgetary agreement has also provided us with some additions in areas that were important to us.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e476	The representative Gabrielsen's reply now clearly showed that the right is most concerned with the companies that are well-informed and make a lot of money. There are other approaches to business policy than that. SV's approach is primarily research and education. I miss the Right approach there, because the Right – at least before – has been a party that has had quite a lot of insight and also a lot of care in terms of research and education. Then I would like to ask: was this not part of the Right-wing negotiating arrangement on the budget at all? And isn't it right that research and education are the basic input factor in Norwegian business? The right-hand side gives you the impression that when they tell us about this budget agreement and the deal, they could get almost what they wanted. Then it must mean that they have removed more research and education for the benefit of zero dollars in tax increases to companies that are doing well or people who are earning well. It's a value choice. I totally disagree with that, but I just register that this is the case, and I want to hear if Gabrielsen can confirm that it is right. Then I also have a question about agriculture. The representative Gabrielsen said that they wanted the fees for fertilizers removed. Fertilisers and spraying agents can be taxed; they can be re-introduced. And this is, of course, using some market mechanisms to make a turn in an environmentally friendly direction. Is it such that the Right should use other and more direct instruments to achieve environmental policy objectives in agricultural policy, or is it such that they do not believe that the market mechanisms will function in relation to this area?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e487	The representative, Andersen, asks about research and education in relation to the budget agreement and the negotiations that were held. I think it is interesting that SV is at least present in the Chamber when we discuss the budget of the Business Committee, which covers as important things as fishing, agriculture and nutrition. I think it might be a little sad -- not that they don't have enough excitement to be represented on all committees, but that they haven't actually prioritised being on this very important committee. As for what was important to address in the negotiations that we finally had with the government parties, it is clear that in such a situation we know it is about giving and taking. There is no doubt that if you read the Right Alternative Budget, you'll find that on the very points where Andersen's representative says we've held the tab high before, we've also done it in this year's budget. And I would like to say that one of the weak points of this agreement is precisely what is going on in research and education – not least in the area that this trade union budget is dealing with. With regard to the fertiliser charge, we have proposed to remove it in our alternative budget. Then the representative asks Andersen if we are not willing to use the market forces. Well, there is now, as far as I know, a study that shows to what extent the fertiliser charge we have affects the choice of method of fertilisation. There are relatively clear signals that this charge is primarily a fiscal charge, a levy levied by farmers, to the state, and that it affects in very little, not to say to a disappearing degree, the farmer’s choice of method of fertilisation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e496	I noticed that the representative Gabrielsen said that it was better not to let the companies pay less tax than first to take in money and then to hand them out again. Does the representative, Gabrielsen, really believe that the same companies are paying in, getting something out? Does the representative Gabrielsen not see that there is a serious distribution effect in this? In fact, it is not enterprises in the start-up phase, the newly established enterprises, or those that have come into trouble any longer in the process, that get pleasure from tax relief. In fact, he confirmed what he was asked about, that the Right is busy, is giving tax relief to those who have something that can be taxed, while they will reduce support to those who have not come so far. Then I registered that the representative Gabrielsen said he had some doubts about the yard support. He's in doubt if he saw who to say he should believe, whether it's the council or the industry itself. Does that mean that the representative Gabrielsen will turn around at this point if it turns out that the industry is right and not the Council of State? Does that mean that one will consider going up to the same percentages that one has in the countries with which we compete, if it turns out that this is a very contributing factor for us to get permits in the yard industry along the coast?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e505	As far as tax policy is concerned, the representative Ausdal Starrfeld says that the same companies pay taxes are not getting money back. No, of course, in some cases it's not. And it's very bad in some cases, because it's actually so that many of these public schemes are what you can call business-life-intravenous, that you keep living in a lot that you should actually have done in a short process in a previous phase. Because in a labour market like Norwegian, where we have almost full employment, and where we have a lot of areas that we say are areas of activity, where new jobs are to be created, that necessarily means that we have to take these people from somewhere. And that dynamics we must keep alive and not try to cement it with business-intravenous schemes. I have to say I bounce when I, for example. reads in the Annual Report to the SND that 50 million have been spent here. NOK to buy a 2 pst. share of Norway Seafoods. Why are we going to spend 50 million dollars? State dollars to buy us in with 2 pst. in a Smoke Company? I see no justification for some of these things, so here, with the best conscience, we can give priority to general conditions rather than selective measures. As for the yard support, I have to repeat what I said in my post, that I get kind of two impressions of the situation when I read the council proposal and when I read the incoming messages. What I said in my post is that the Right is prepared to make the necessary redistributions if it is such that the yard support rate that is now at 7 p.m. is a major reason why the Norwegian yard loses contracts. In a revised national budget, the Right is ready to make the repriorities. And it's no secret that just within the SND I could imagine doing some cuts and some repriorities to secure the yard industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e516	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e519	The main focus of SV’s business policy lies in school and education. The most important factor in determining whether we're going to succeed is whether we have the right and the right skills. For the individual, it is essential to have control over their own lives. The second pillar is research and development, and to build up funds to promote future industries in e.g. environmental technologies, energy savings, environmentally friendly transport, etc. The freedom of action that oil wealth gives us, we need to use more actively to invest in the future. The third strategy is a good public sector – it is the main infrastructure for business as well. SV will contribute much more when it comes to building up, and then we want to redistribute stronger when the harvest is good. We also want to use labour market measures actively and focus on action and qualification. It'll be a good thing for business. We also want less taxes on labour and more taxes on capital, and we want to lower the employer's tax. Still, we are all alone in wanting to tax free passengers who receive tax-free dividends. Double taxation of work is a fact. The tax is being reduced for everyone now, except for the sick, and as usual the rich get the most. In the budget debate last year, the Central Party agreed with us that this was a big problem, but that it was a little difficult to solve it in practice. In a period of summer, the Workers' Party also agreed with us on this, but when it became serious, they withdrew. This is how important principles are played for fair distribution beyond the margin of political debate. I would like to remind you once again that the major threat to the Norwegian economy, Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs in currency and exchange speculation must lead us to take action against it. With a key press, enterprises and their economies can be destroyed. It's nice that it's not a major issue in the nutrition debate. It is strange to witness that old age mentality is allowed to dominate so strongly that the authorities do not take more responsibility for securing property and values by actively promoting measures against speculation. So to the individual arrangements. SV wants to strengthen schemes that businesses and business demand. The management consulting services e.g.: have laid us on our hearts, and so does this year, as last year. It is an important measure for enterprises in the start-up phase to adapt to and be involved in development. A change of management advice is now being announced. It shall be tendered. In addition, the entry was initially reduced from the Ministry’s side and zeroed out into the Committee. As I see it, the conversion will mean a reduced public exposure and greater corporate expenses. There will be a worse system for outlying enterprises because they will have to tender, and there are not many consultancy firms that can compete for such a job. In fact, the consultancy companies located in the central districts do not always have the competence to provide good advice on the outskirts. This entry should be increased and the public advisory bodies we now have should be able to remain in those areas of the country where they are needed. As stated above, tax incentives do not help enterprises that have not yet started to make money, and therefore the aid should be channelled there. Then we want to maintain support for the shipbuilding industry because we believe it is an important field of activity. Furthermore, we want some changes – quite radical – in the SND system. It's about cap. 2425, State Food and Rural Development Fund and County Councils. [[SND]] There is now the arrangement so that the money is sent to the county council, which then has to send 100 pst. to SND. Then the county can apply to get up to 20 pst. of this appropriation back if they produce even more papers and even more plans. It is an impossible budgetary situation for both SND and county municipalities. No one knows what they're up against at the beginning of the year. The person implementing plans must have their own economic backbone so that they can help put plans into practice. That's why we're proposing a change that means that the 20 pst. for which there is now room in the budget, remain in the county. And then we have a proposal for a principle change of the system, where the county councils get these funds and seas choose what kind of cooperation partners they want. They can use SND, like today, 100 pst. if they do, but they may also use the means to implement other measures in areas they consider to be most important. So to agriculture. SV promotes a number of proposals in the field of agriculture, which are input to the programming message to be delivered next year. The main idea is that we need a conversion of Norwegian agriculture in the ecological direction, and the main reason for keeping Norwegian agriculture is that we are going to produce food. There are many additional reasons, but if the emphasis on food production is reduced, we will not be able to sustain the other areas, such as rural policy, housing, cultural landscapes, etc. Norway has advantages and disadvantages as a food producer. We want to keep the benefits, and then we want to reduce the disadvantages and keep them out. We can never be able to compete on equal terms in terms of volume and price, with countries that have much warmer climate, large areas, large markets and factory production. We have to do it differently and bet on it. It will be both environmentally and ethically much more correct, and then we have to turn the whole agricultural sector into an ecological direction. We have to bet on pure food and ethical animal husbandry. In this perspective, it is important to strengthen animal health and food surveillance, border controls and protection against animal and plant infections. We haven't been good enough in this area until now, and SV fears that the veterinary agreement and the WTO force us to increase trade and by increasing the pressure on infection and less choice of what kind of control we need. This reduces our ability to develop Norwegian agriculture to what it can be, namely the producer of pure food. Because once infection has entered, the damage is very often irreparable. In the big news coming, we have to make clear choices as to which direction we want Norwegian agriculture to go. It should be in the ecological direction. We are proposing this, and we must also bring up the market for organic food and get what is produced to the consumer. A year ago I stood here and told about my journey through the grocery store, that I almost never found organic products, and if I found them, they were little delicately presented and very expensive. It can't go on like that. If demand is to be met, the offer needs to be increased. It's got to bet. Production must be encouraged, and the goods must be marketed as organic – something that is not always happening now. They must be easily accessible and presented in an inviting manner. Other products placed on the market have large marketing budgets behind them, and it is known how to market to raise demand and thereby increase production volume. When the volume is up, you can see if it's right to take out the extra price in the market and what it's like. But claiming this as a principle now while this is a very small niche that almost no one helps to help out, is going to be wrong. So we want a completely different regime in the field of agriculture. I would like to give another example of a policy that needs to be turned around. For example, SV in the proposal asks for a plan to increase the use of outlaws. One of the reasons is that it produces meat organically. For example, it is now that if you take a lamb from the pastry and deliver it directly to the slaughterhouse, and it weighs little, you might get very low price for this lamb, sail if it's good quality and organic food. But if you put it into the pond and feed it with power feed for several weeks, and it's going to put on a few kilos, the price will go up. This means that instead of focusing on quality and ecology, one counts kilograms and rates on quantity. Nor can Norwegian agriculture develop and win. I refer to the proposals we are promoting, and I want the Stortinget and the other parties to assess them seriously. Finally, I would like to say a little bit about the agricultural agreement. As far as I know, it is the first time in several years that all the parties to the agricultural settlement have signed an agreement. It was also the first time in several years that a unanimous increase voted in favour of the agreement. Then, all of a sudden, the parties in the nutrition committee enter and cut into contract funds. Unfortunately, I have not been given the opportunity to reply to this before today, but I wish that some of the parties who have participated in this could explain to me how this is happening. I actually thought that you could deal with a signed agreement so that you either voted in favour or you voted against – that it was not possible to go in and move money into a signed agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e556	The representative’s speech must have been very clear – no one has asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e559	The left has warned against making the Norwegian economy dependent on oil since the 1970s. In these days we experience the consequences of a low oil price. This affects individuals and Norway as a nation. For this reason, the Left will be a driver to facilitate a profitable and varied business life throughout the country, with particular attention being paid to those enterprises that provide new start-ups and jobs — small and medium-sized enterprises. The left and the government have been wrongly criticised for the fact that little has happened in industrial policy lately. Typically, the criticism from other parties has been strongest in advance and has almost been muted when the cases have been submitted. From the Departments there have been several heavy and good business issues discussed by the Committee. Enterprise policy must also be seen in the context of the regional and economic measures under the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. In total, this policy shows that the Government is taking seriously the main challenges we face: the organisation of business development in a new century, at a time of great dynamism, not least technological — while the great brain flow from the districts to the more central strata of the country. The business environment is an important measure to dampen up during this brain drain. The aim is to facilitate more establishments and jobs in knowledge intensive activities. IT developments can be centralising. With the right grip, it can well contribute so much in the opposite direction, to positive business development in the districts. I refer to the Minister of Industry's IT statement and proposals for action in the State budget, which have also been very well received in this part of business. The attitude of the nutrition committee is marked by the need to tighten up the public economy. Despite this, the proposals in all the framework areas — industry in general, fisheries and agriculture — are targeted offensives and take into account the decentralised and special industrial structure we have in this country. The Norwegian Seafarer Reimbursement Scheme is continued in the adjusted centre structure and gives clear signals that the scheme should remain in its current form. The central parties refer to the agreement with the Right and the Advance Party, where one also asks the Government to follow closely the development of the yard industry and come back to the Stortinge with a statement and any measures taken. The working party will increase the percentage, but does not propose the necessary means to follow this up in the State budget. This is not real budgeting in relation to incorporated and accepted budgetary procedures. Fisheries and aquaculture are the second largest export industry in Norway. Within the industry there is a high potential for increased value creation through further processing. The main challenge will be the recruitment and renewal of the fleet. This needs to be adapted to the resource base. The left is well pleased with the strategy of the Government, which includes, among other things, the artificial annual investment framework has been removed. Left wants a varied, fishing fleet. It is positive that the SND instruments now also apply to this industry. It is important to be offensive to new maritime industries such as shellfish and lobster farming. With our natural circumstances and great market opportunities, there is a great potential for value creation with relatively small investments. An overall objective of agricultural policy must be to produce food of such a scale and in such a way as to increase food security and consumer safety. This government has credibility in agricultural policy. The Right and Advance Party ideology, ever to establish larger units, fits neither our topography nor our climatic conditions. Instead of cutting transfers for small uses, the Left believes that a rather need to look at the maximum transfers for greater use. Agriculture needs to be seen in a wider political context, not least in relation to housing. It must be a goal to bring costs down. The abolition of the agricultural investment levy is a step in the right direction. It is strange to note that not only the Labour Party but also the Right Party and the Advance Party, which will ease the tax burden, are opposed in their primary proposals. Only the centre parties keep their promises and enter into a contractual agreement with the agricultural organisations. From the left’s point of view — and in the overall economic context — the budget provides a good framework for enterprise policy next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e587	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e591	Sometimes when I hear representatives maybe especially from the center party holding posts, I get the feeling that we're not in the same world. I can't do that to comment on 'all the good things' that have come from the Minister of Industry. Not many matters have come from the Ministry of Economic Affairs this period! The first one was sent back, and in a later article I will tell you a little about what I thought about the one we have for handling now, i.e. the business message. So terribly naked, I think it's wrong to say that we are. So to the yard support. I wonder if Kongshaug's representative slept well about the networks and thought it was nice to come home to the retail and petrol stations and meet their constructions that work in the yard industry, which are afraid of their jobs. I wonder if they're content that one will look at it in the spring, if it goes wrong enough. Or would the representative of Kongshaug wish that he could be in alliance with the Labour Party and say that we must call about one of the most important district industries we have? As far as I know, there are more than 3 000 jobs associated with the shipbuilding industry in More and Romesdal. In addition, there are two jobs per job. subcontracting work. Now it's not sure all of them are in More and Romesdal. But in total, there are 9 000 jobs, mostly in District Norway. And then this also has ringing effects for the public sector. I really need to ask the representative, Kongshaug, if he's satisfied that Norway is now going to have worse framework conditions than the ones we're competing with.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e602	Those who have joined us have seen that many issues have arisen from the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Agriculture to the Committee. I could have rammed them up, but I'm not going to spend time here. And what has come is, in my opinion, a good product. Then go to the yard stand. The first question was whether I thought it was nice to come home both at the gas station and at the store, and I really think so. It's a really good local environment, so it's going very well. The figures to which reference was made in the yard industry in More and Romesdal are correct, but they were also true last year when the Jagland government presented its draft budget and reduced the yard support. The numbers haven't changed since then. We agreed in the agreement to follow developments closely forward and come back to Stortinget with the matter. I must also be allowed to point out that the Norwegian shipyard has a contract mass of 24 billion kroner. Within one year it is built for approx. 10 billion kroner, maybe 11, at Norwegian shipyards. So it's clear that there's a significant contract mass, and from that situation there should be employment. But like the representative Gabrielsen, I want to say that we should follow closely and see what progress is like. Otherwise, I am very happy to be able to go home and tell you about the good district package that this government has just presented, and that we can stand by the agreement that the parties to the agricultural settlement have made, because More and Romsdal are also a large agricultural group.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e615	The representative spoke about the reimbursement system for seafarers, and I will do the same – surprisingly. The purpose of establishing the reimbursement scheme for seafarers was both to stimulate increased employment by Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships and to increase recruitment. I see that the government parties, like the Right, are concerned that there should be long-term and stable framework conditions for the shipping industry and for Norwegian seafarers. But I'm a little concerned about the internal communication between the government parties and the government council, because when last year the government parties asked to get an overview of the scheme for more accurate arrangements to ensure employment, the government council came back with a proposal that took out the best of the class, namely the bending loads, with the result that we are now standing without those who have had the most apprentices. We think that's a little bit of a concern, because there are now 2,200 young people under education at different levels in maritime industries, and 620 of these will need apprenticeships for the summer. There's an increase of 208 apprenticeship places compared to last year. So I'm asking the representative if he has a communication with the Minister of Industry that can make it possible to do something about the relationship with bend loaders, if it seems that it's going to be difficult to get apprenticeships for the young people who are being trained for spring. I also ask how the representative will communicate with the Minister of Industry in order to ensure long-term stability in relation to the reimbursement scheme for Norwegian seafarers. Winding up is also stable, but that is not what we want. If we can now make sure the system is in place, I would be very happy to hear how to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e622	I can assure you that there is a good communication between big business representatives and government councils, it is in different departments and perhaps the Ministry of Economic Affairs in particular for me. When the reimbursement scheme for seafarers was taken out in the first draft state budget, we must not forget what everyone agreed on, that the whole purpose of the tight state budget, with a reduction of NOK 9 billion, was to bring interest down. We all know that we don't reduce a government budget by $9 billion without it causing pain in some places. If it hadn't caused pain in some places, I just have to say that then state budgets have been too liberal in the past. But there was no well-intentioned arrangement taken out. Now it's back in. It is also in the remarks that we assume that the reimbursement system will be stable in the future, so that the industry knows what the framework conditions it has to adhere to. Now it's also true, if you go into more detail here, that the bending loads went out. I am aware that the bending loads are important in the field of youth learning, but I would like to note that the wellboats came in. Wellboats are also important starting points for young people who will start in the maritime industry, precisely because there are locally anchored jobs, and often it is the first job a young boy is looking for in that context. At least it's a patch on the wound. I also believe that communication is so good – as a direct answer to the question – that if there are problems with apprenticeships, there is something we can have a dialogue with the Council of State about.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e633	I'm noticing that the only argument for getting in for reduced yard support is that Thorbjørn Jagland also suggested it a little over a year ago. Yes, but the Labour Party changed that in Stortinget. Things happened during the fall, and we made new assessments to the effect that it was wrong to allow Norway to have worse framework conditions than other countries have. That's what we've been holding on to. I thought that the representative Kongshaug was guilty of some kind of double accounting. Now the representative asks Kongshaug to be drawn seriously that it was with pain they took away the reimbursement scheme for the seafarers. We can also go on for five years and say that it was actually what the Bondevik government wanted, because they tried to take it away, even though a new one has come to a compromise. I really hope that the government party and the Left in particular build their assessments on a little more thoughtful arguments than to owe it to the government of Jagland to make this proposal a long time ago. I could have intended to hear about the representative of Kongshaug still think that the best budget that has been submitted to the Stortning in the fall is the budgetary option that the Government first put forward, or about a user of the different alternative budgets a little as it fits in with the one-party assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e640	As regards the yard support, I would like to stress that there are several arguments. At least I tried to explain the situation that today there is a contract mass of 24 billion kroner, with an annual production in Norway of about DKK 10-11 billion. This may be what the Council of State comes into and confirms. Then it is suggested that I operate with double bookkeeping. I don't. But the Workers' Party does not operate with bookkeeping at all when they put 125 million. kr and raise the percentage by 2 pst. According to the Ministry, each percentage increase in yard support amounts to approximately 125 million. kr. And with a simple head count, it's going to be 250 million. kr which must be set aside. Those who accuse the Left of double accounting have to look at their own accounting first. With regard to the budgetary options, we went into cooperation with parties who were willing to take responsibility by getting a settlement, as all parties, including the Labour Party, said, was so important in order to bring interest down and calm down the budgetary situation. But that was not the real attitude towards the Workers' Party. From the time the budget was presented, there was a comedy going over to a drama, and it was becoming a tragedy in the end – not a tragedy for the Government and the Storing, but a tragedy for democracy and the perception that people have of the game that is going on in this room. The budgetary procedure of the year may be described as:
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e649	The cord shift is over. The president noted that the representative Karin Andersen took up the suggestions she referred to in her statement.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e652	Norwegian enterprises need framework conditions that enable them to compete with the rest of the world. This is becoming increasingly important as our economy, too, is being affected by increasing globalisation. It was just this that was the background for the Workers' Party to pay so much attention to the solidarity option. Tradesmen partook of moderate payoffs. It was part of and gave Norwegian industry increased competitiveness and increased ignition. Politicians were able to create more well-being by getting more people into work. Increases in tax revenue made it possible to solve multiple welfare tasks. But how long was Adam in Paradise? There are many types of parallels that can be drawn, and there's a lot of advice for anyone who wants to learn from the secrets. It is not possible to become overconfident and greedy. Nutrient councils have recently claimed that when Igland left last fall, it was because he saw that the economic problems were on the rise. Without drawing the parallels too far, it must be borne in mind that both the 1997 budget and the 1998 budget warn of the follow-up to the over-exploitation policy. The interest rate would be affected. This could lead to poorer competitiveness for Norwegian enterprises and greater unemployment. Many view Norway as a paradise. Political choices are supreme in deciding whether the good developments we have had will continue or whether we, like Adam, are being thrown out of paradise. The outlook for the future shows that it is necessary to pursue an offensive industrial policy, but with a high degree of stability in relation to framework conditions. Norwegian business is hungry for stability. The commitment to strengthening existing activities and helping new ones is great. I am surprised, therefore, that the large coalition of the Centre Party, the Right and the Progress Party are loosely attached to the whole toolkit to the transfer of competence to the enterprises – the toolkit that has just been tasked with strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises. The Institute of Technology has a taste of the savings knife, both by reducing the proceeds and by significantly reducing international technology cooperation carried out by Norway’s Industrial Attachés. The same applies to the Business Guide Service, which is not moved, but cancelled by allowing 20 million. The heads have been removed completely. There are not a few companies that have seen the light of day by having access to these services online in an important phase. In connection with establishment training and guidance, the statistics show that approx. 75 pst. by those who receive an establishment grant and start the enterprise, are still in operation after five years. On average, each establishment generates 1.5 annual works after four years. On this basis, the central part of the budget is similar to that of double-accounting – I'm sorry to have to say it. On the one hand, they refer to the objectives of the Business Guide Service to help boost value creation for small and medium-sized enterprises through the provision and use of skills. They support the submission that the company’s management companies are included in the company’s SND business, thereby establishing an own programme through the SND to cover this type of advice to the incumbents and the smallest companies.On the other hand, the conclusion is that the same batch supports the submission of a full 20-million lease. kr for this purpose. This can hardly be seen as anything other than a closure. There's not much to help with an indoor policy, like the representative of the Augan foreshadowed, if there's nothing inside the door. The North-Norway Guidance Institute is being shaved, with 2 million. kr. The Norwegian Design Council has the same budget proposal compared to the Government – ironically enough, on the same day as the Norwegian Design Council is awarding the Norwegian Design Council’s award for good Norwegian design. It is particularly negative as this happens to the Design Council, using different tools to reinforce the importance of design for innovation activity and the competitiveness of Norwegian business as a whole. This is one of the areas that really needs to bet in order for Norway to move forward from being a commodity producer to becoming more a producer and supplier of further processed products. It's just about growing the green branch that we're all going to sit on. The working party does not agree with these concepts and will monitor and strengthen the transfer of competences to small and medium-sized enterprises. The working party also prioritises strengthening Norway’s Export Council by 8 million. NOK, and goes in for 6 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal to NORTRA. If we are to have the hope of triggering the potential of the tourism industry at home, we need to invest in international marketing. Norway's Council of Exports feels the same about Norwegian goods and services. In particular, small and medium-sized enterprises rely on assistance for active international market work. Fishing industry is the second largest export industry in the country, with DKK 24,6 billion as a result last year. In addition, there is a turnover of about 5-6 billion kroner on the home market. It is worth noting the distribution between catch and farming. The catch side accounted for 2,85 million tonnes of fish raw material and farming at 360 000 tonnes in 1997. After all, there is little reason to believe that the catch volume will increase monthly, while the farming side has an almost unlimited potential. Salmon and trout are the main products today, but there is reason to remember that both cod, halibut, bitumen and bumblebees are seeing promising paces. Skeletal nutrition can become a major source of nutrition on the coast. The budget now provides room for a control system for testing the blower. That's good. Renewal of the fishing fleet is a sore point. The average age of covered vessels is 23.5 years. It goes without saying that the efficiency and ability of the crew can't be the same as today's requirements. It is not recommended that the permission to condemn and structural adjustment is reduced by 50 million. kr relative to the sum of the current year. I am therefore surprised to note today that the Central Party of the representative, Mr Enoksen, dares to bring forward the efforts in relation to fleet renewal in his post. I don't want to go into it and characterize what I think of it. One of the success factors in the future is marine research. If we are to be closed with the optimal management of fish resources, we need to know more about how the different fish stocks develop and what they were tolerating. We need to focus more on research on the factors that are decisive to facilitate competition by Norwegian nature. Both the marine research institute and universities are important contributors in order to ensure that the basis for policy choices is best suited to this sector. It is not advisable to talk about the Norwegian fishing industry without addressing the issue of market access and market care. We're big-time fish adventurers. We have had a good development in markets in Austen, with special emphasis on Japan and China. The same is true of Russia. The fact that these markets are currently somewhat uncertain indicates that it needs to be worked on all fronts to secure our market access. The EU market is, without comparison, our most important market and must monitor an offensive policy with a view to maintaining and further developing the EEA Agreement. I am pleased that the whole committee has the lines under this aspect. Fishing industries form the basis for busses along our entire coast. The challenge is to bring about a development that provides profitable jobs, with the highest possible value creation associated with the raw material offered by the sea. It is a premise that all segments have their needs in mind, ranging from the choice of fishing gear to the finished product to the customer. The faithful to bet on recruiting to the fishing industry will increase. At this point, the demand for attractive jobs will force itself both in terms of work arrangements with organised leisure, working environment and security. The importance of value creation and profitability will lead to a strong increase in the level of competence. It is therefore gratifying that funds have been set aside to provide distance learning, with a view to adding both on the catch and processing sides to receive a letter of formal notice. The requirement and potential of exploiting a larger part of the raw material poses new challenges. It is unacceptable that much of the raw material that could have formed the basis for profitable jobs is thrown at sea. The fishing industry is – I have written ‘can’ – the most exciting industry in the country, but I want to take it harder and say it’s the most exciting industry in the country. In the long term, the fishing industry, and the aquaculture industry in particular, can become more important than the oil and gas industry, as it appears. The fishing industry is based on a renewable resource that is in the world in need of large quantities to sustain today's moderate world-wide consumption of marine food. Character indicates that next year may become a difficult year for Norwegian industry and as a result for Norwegian workers. The question of whether the budget is going to be multiple today is the right to meet these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e704	The Progress Party believes that the deregulation and liberalisation of the fishing industry are too slow. What should have been a stand-alone industry is still subsidy-dependent due to public action, regulation and regulatory requirements. In this context, reference is made to the 1951 Raw Fish Act which grants the fish sales laws exclusive rights to all the marketing of fish in their territory. In addition, minimum prices may be fixed, temporary prohibitions on fishing may be imposed and catches may be directed to specific purchasers. Such sales monopolies are prohibited for other businesses. Furthermore, there is no doubt that today’s participation law discriminates against operators in the fishing industry, depending on the background. However, the Party recognises that the fishing industry needs to be regulated to a certain extent, including: because no one has natural ownership of marine resources. The Progress Party believes that in a system of tradable allowances, the industry itself will determine the number of jobs on which it is based. A maximum annual catch limit established to ensure stocks should be allocated to operators in the form of quotas. Such a system will encourage a adaptation that maximises the net profit of the limited quantity of fish allowed to be caught each year. A tradable system will therefore establish a market that will detect the number of spaces available in the industry if it is to provide both actors and society with a satisfactory return. The Progress Party will also remind you that, despite very strong growth in recent years, the aquaculture industry is still struggling with an unbridled and complex piece of legislation. We therefore believe that the authorities should focus on the environment and veterinary issues and, in parallel, simplify and/or abolish the legislation so that the farming industry can concentrate on improving its competitiveness and market adaptation. So a little bit about the travel industry. The party notes that the tourism industry has a high potential for continued growth and profitability. We would therefore argue that the marketing of Norway as a tourist country benefits many different businesses, industries and districts, and therefore cannot be considered as a selective aid scheme. The Progress Party therefore wants to strengthen the possibilities for the tourism industry through the increase proposed by us in the allocation of NORTRA. For the Progress Party, it is also imperative to enter into the reimbursement scheme for Norwegian seafarers. This scheme came about as a result of the difficult competitive situation that arose with Danish and Swedish ships, which had strong support arrangements for their seafarers. In the EU, support schemes for seafarers are referred to as an accepted measure to recruit and maintain national seafarers. The Commission points to the need to stimulate increased recruitment of seafarers from EU countries. Norway is difficult to maintain a leading position in international long-term shipping without a core of national seafarers. The party notes that the reimbursement scheme has contributed not only to a strong recruitment but also to a strong commitment to the shipping industry, with a major impact on the Norwegian maritime business environment. A significant number of enterprises in Norway provide goods and services to shipping. These companies depend both on the shipping companies as customers and on those with a background and competence from shipping in order to develop and market their products. The Progress Party has made substantial contributions in its budget in order to enable the scheme to continue with the initial percentage of 20 but will subsidly support the agreement reached by the Centre, the Right and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e721	Through the Ministry of Agriculture's budget, the Government shows that it attaches great importance to ensuring safe food for consumers, as well as ensuring value creation, activity and settlement throughout the country based on agriculture. I am pleased with the broad support given by the Stortinget through the attitude of the Business Committee to the main lines of the Government's food and agricultural policy. The focus of agricultural policy is on employment and stable housing in rural areas. The agricultural settlement for 1998-99 provided increased income opportunities for Norwegian agriculture. This was and is still important for slowing down the relocation from the districts and for viable agriculture. Knowledge and competence must also be used. Loss of the investment levy for agriculture and forestry, which, under the Budget Agreement with the Progress Party and the Right, is now in place, will reduce the industry's expenditure by about 400 million. kr. This was an important prerequisite for reaching an agreement in the agricultural settlement of the year. In line with the Government’s proposal, the appropriations for the implementation of the Agriculture Agreement have been reduced by 100 million. kr. I would like to stress that the prerequisites of the agricultural agreement will be fully followed up in the contractual period. New negotiations on agriculture in the WTO will start in 1999. I have noticed, and am also pleased, that the majority of the Business Committee is asking the Government to continue to work on deepening and operationalising the content of the multifunctional role of agriculture in the preparatory phase of the new WTO negotiations. The government considers these negotiations to be very important and will have the necessary contact with the Storing in this process. We experience increasing attention on consumer requirements for safe, high-quality food. The government wants a long-term food policy with a view to ensuring safe food of nutritional quality for consumers, and I have noticed that the Committee also points out that this is important. This also presupposes that the industry's own operators continue to set an ethical framework for their output rather than any short-term economic gains. In the future, consumers will be the main premiscuous supplier and framework setter for Norwegian agriculture. With greater competition, consumer preferences and values become crucial. It is important that sufficient resources are made available to carry out control activities related to food safety. Through the monitoring and control programme, the Government will give Norwegian consumers maximum assurance that the food they are offered is safe and of high quality. These control activities must also be carried out effectively. The Government will continuously assess the need to strengthen and extend the national measures that are and will be implemented and whether measures need to be extended to include emerging diseases. We are committed to having a good dialogue with consumers, and therefore efforts to improve communication with consumers will continue. Research and development will also focus on food and health. A restrictive soil protection policy must be implemented in order to ensure the long-term basis of agricultural production, in particular areas in the best climate zones. We want to place greater emphasis on the active involvement of agricultural authorities and influence the planning processes that govern land use and set conditions for the agricultural industry in the future. I am pleased that the Government's proposal to amend the law on land change has been adopted by the Stortinget. Here, the social benefits of using landslides are considerable to solve expansion and redispatch issues. The forest is the basis of one of our most important industries. Long-term investment in forestry and knowledge-based business development in small and medium-sized enterprises will also be a priority. The government will present a major communication on forestry policy already before Christmas, where challenges and instruments for this important industry will be discussed. I look forward to the Storting being allowed, for once, to debate forestry policy and not just agricultural policy, as is very often the case, given that forestry is a major and important industry for our country.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e747	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e751	The Council of State was in its intervention on consumer requirements for food, but he forgot a very important element, and that is consumers' demand for more reasonable food. There are several elements here: both quality, i.e. safe food, and also the price the consumer has to pay for Norwegian-produced food at last. And this goes into the debate we've had in the fall with the Farmer on the one hand, which says that it's the farmer who contributes the most to fairer food prices, and the chain memory on the other hand, who's pushed other reports to his chest and said that it's the ones that contribute to more reasonable food, with Rimi-Hagen at the head. I want to give the Council of State credit, because it is very positive that an initiative has now been taken for a pre-project to identify the possibilities to establish ongoing performance reporting on the formation of prices in the food market. But that's not enough. That is why the Progress Party has now promoted a so-called Document No. 8 proposals for a government-designated sample to address all stages of the food value chain, look at the margins and have reference products that we can compare with other countries, so that the Storting can gain credibility about who we can trust in food and that can help to be a decision-making basis for the Storing at a later stage. It's very important to follow the products from cradle to grave, or from ground to table in this work, so that we can look at all the different joints in the chain. I hope it may be possible to get such a result clearly in advance of the agricultural situation next year, or at the latest in the context of the big business report on agricultural policy. I would like some comments from the Council of State on this proposal and the intention of such work.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e762	First of all, I would like to remind you that we have carried out an agricultural settlement that is historic in terms of how little of the framework has been taken out in relation to the price in the market. This would be a contribution to reducing the impact of agricultural settlements on consumer prices. As part of this, a clear strategy was also put in place by the Government, an attempt to reduce costs in industry. I am pleased that the Progress Party is helping to get that piece in place, because it will work in the way one here wants, namely to get cheaper food for consumers. It is also correct, as the representative Hedstrom said, that we have started a study to look at the price formation of food, etc. based on the debate that has taken place during the autumn. I hope that it will be confident that one of them will arrive at a satisfactory result through the work that is being started. As for the fact that many people believe that the food is for animals, I should be careful to try to place the responsibility for it – just note that for a year with a salary increase of 6-7 pst. in society in general, and where the person who is involved in producing food from the ground to the table is also required to take out this salary increase, the increase will have to come back somewhere. Either a part of the price must be reduced by the producer in the first subparagraph or one must increase the price of the person who has to pay in the last subparagraph. Well, there's going to be a part of the answer to the price creation in the market, that's the price the food costs today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e771	Of course, the Council of State has recorded the debate that has taken place in this Chamber and in the Committee on the issue of the withdrawal of the investment tax on agriculture and forestry. When you look at the main positions of the various parties in relation to the state budget for next year, you can see that there is really a large majority in this Chamber against removing the investment tax on agriculture and forestry now. This means that what is saving the Council of State from a new round of agricultural negotiations this year is the budgetary agreement with the Right and the Advance Party. The Right Party and the Progressive Party ensure a majority for what is the highest level of transfer of history to Norwegian farmers. It's in itself interesting, but it's not certain that this will be a permanent situation. I would therefore like to challenge the Council of State to make some reflections about involving so much tax policy issues in the agricultural sector. How will the Council of State summarise its experience in this regard? And not least, does the Council of State feel that the experience that has been gained this year is so good that this form of work is also relevant for the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e780	: I am glad that it has become a majority to cut the expenditure in Norwegian agriculture by 400 million. kr per. years. I would say to the representative Hanssen that if one had not got this in place and possibly met with a demand for new negotiations, it might have led to a larger outflow of public budgets in terms of appropriations. In this sense – just to give an encouragement to the Advance Party – perhaps contributed to the grip that has now been put in place, so that a failure to meet any demand for an increase in appropriations later. Something positive should actually be able to see in this. I would like to say to the Workers' Party that I have full respect for the fact that others have their primary position and point of view on this. But after reading the position, I have to put some question marks in relation to the way the Workers' Party argues that they, through their budget arrangements, take care of the agricultural sector. They point to the cyclical charge, but there is no cyclical charge in the other arrangement either, and they point to the electricity charge. They're going to decrease by 150 million. SEK for the business cycle fee, 40 million. NOK 40 million on the electricity charge. NOK 5 million for the basic fee on heating oil. DKK for the amount of the employer’s fee and increased self-payment for sick pay and 100 million. kr to lower price and cost increases. This does not compare with saying that the Workers' Party has, through its budget arrangements, been given an equal arrangement, which corresponds to a loss of 400 million. kr. Otherwise I have full respect for the fact that one can say that one does not find it right to remove this fee. But at least I would have preferred that the solution model that you're presenting to be the same, would have been on safer legs than what I think this solution is doing. We pulled this in to get an agricultural settlement in port. I have noticed that the Committee has said that they want this type of solution model to be assessed in the communication, and that of course the Council of State will follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e789	I noticed that the Council of State in its statement referred to the fact that the intention of the agricultural agreement could be maintained with the arrangement that was now in place. There's certainly a cut that's been made in the committee of over 100 million. kr. I understand that this cut is done in undisposed expenses. But then I would like to ask the Council of State whether it is not that there have already been meetings in the ministry with the organizations about the disposal of these funds. And is it that it is unproblematic to deal with means of agreement the way it is now done with the decision you're making? Is it not true that the whole framework negotiated with the parties to the agreement is actually committed? Then I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture how he views the reductions in animal health and food surveillance contained in the majority draft budget. I am well aware that many in the Republic have major problems with how to deal with the veterinary agreement. In order to deal with it with some good conscience, it is important to ensure at least that what is to be replaced by the control regime we now have is strong and good and that it is ensured by sufficient means and measures. As I am familiar with the veterinary conditions in Norway today, they are not good enough as they are. They need to be strengthened, and they need to be further strengthened if possible by signing the veterinary agreement. Can the Council of State confirm that there is no problem with the reductions that have been made in these areas, or is it such that the Council of State sees that there may be a need to come back and strengthen these areas in order to ensure that there is no increase in the burden of infection in Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e796	I would like to have said that it is not unproblematic to cut into an agreed framework. The Council of State, the Government and those who have provided the majority for this arrangement had two choices, either to note that 400 million. the cost reduction did not come into place, or trying to find a solution in relation to the total contract in place. It is stated in the agreement concluded between these lots that the commitment in the 1998-99 agricultural agreement is taken into account during the contractual period and that savings are assumed to be carried out on the basis of expected under-exploitation based on measures implemented or planned. A person who knows the system of farming and knows how it is handled knows that there are always some funds for good that are transferred to the next agreement and used there. This means that one gets a heavier start at the next agricultural settlement, which leads to greater challenges for all parties in finding satisfactory solutions at that point. As for what goes on in food quality, I would recommend that one look up in St.prp. No 1 on page 33 under programme category 15.10 Food quality, animal health and plant health, which initially have an increase of 7.3 pst. If one looks at the State Food Authority, it has an increase of 10.4 p.m., or well, 15 million. kr. Through the treatment here in Stortingen, it's reduced by 467 000 kroner. In my view, there is a significant increase to be included and to ensure that one can deal with what might arise in the context of a new veterinary agreement. So the government has said that one will have to assess at any time whether these resources are enough, because we have a clear commitment to be involved in ensuring safe food and good quality of what is offered to the consumer.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e803	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e806	In the spring of 1998, the Labour Party clearly stated that we should support a negotiated agricultural agreement. The Labour Party has on every occasion shown respect for agreements agreed by the agricultural settlement parties. When this was said to the media in the spring of 1998, we got quite a lot of information about the type of work party that gives the Gjønne's blank mandate. This was seen as alarming, but for us it was a matter of confirming an established practice. One premise on our part was, of course, that the government in its negotiations adhered to the negotiating issues outlined in the main agreement. There is a clear indication of what to negotiate. In the main agreement, it is crystal clear that tax issues are not negotiating issues. However, the Government chose to abolish the investment levy for agriculture and forestry as part of the agreement. The Labour Party has always had a clear position on this negotiating arrangement. We have always said that we cannot accept that our position on tax matters is bound up through the agricultural negotiations. Let me give you some examples that show that this is the case. In the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee on the agricultural situation for 1998-99, a unanimous committee says that this is a matter that needs to be addressed in the context of the State budget, and therefore the Committee does not consider the issue of the withdrawal of investment taxes. In the debate on the agricultural settlement in Stortinget on 18 June, I followed up this line as the main spokesman from the Workers' Party. The report from the debate clearly shows that the Workers' Party does not in any way accept the waiving of investment fees as part of the settlement process. This is why, in the context of our 1999 State budget summit, we have considered the issue of the abolition of investment taxes on agriculture and forestry as an independent theme. We have concluded that we cannot accept such a loss now – not least because we think in the long term and see that the budget line for the year 2000 will also be tight. So first of all, the bill is going to be paid, and then the bill is going to be 400 million. kr. The working party believes that the most important thing now is to signal tightening and steering ability. It has to be if we're going to be able to get our interest rate down. And the fall in interest rates is very important for Norwegian agriculture. In our approach to the 1999 government budget, we presented a total economic approach that would be at least as good for Norwegian agriculture as the government's original government budget proposal. The fact that the Council of State today in this Chamber is virtually evading the Government's original draft budget is alarming. Nevertheless, there is an honest political debate about whether you are in favour of or against removing the investment tax. But it's dishonest to say that in this way we break our promises to support a negotiated agricultural agreement. When e.g. Harald Milli, in the Norwegian Bond Team to the press, says that the Workers' Party is opposed to its policy of supporting negotiated agricultural agreements, and that it is a misleading and erroneous production. The alarming thing is that it is not us, but the government parties, the Right Party and the Progress Party that have agreed through the budgetary agreement on a government budget that actually violates this year's agricultural agreement. This is done by entering into the budget area of the agreement and reducing the appropriations by about 100 million. kr. The Labour Party strongly regrets the adoption by the Stortinge of a framework for Framework Area 11 — Ministry of Agriculture — which in practice forces the Storinge to propose cuts in the economic framework agreed in the agricultural settlement of the year. So this has happened very strangely in connection with the agricultural negotiations of the year. And in its response to my reply instead, the Council of State could not demand that new fiscal and fiscal measures might be relevant in future settlements. Of course, this must have consequences. We can't act clearly and neatly towards parties that do the opposite. That is why we must now reserve our position on the agricultural agreement to be negotiated in spring 1999. We cannot say without reservation this time that we will support a negotiated agreement. First we have to see what the agreement contains, and then we'll be in our full right to assess whether the financial estimates in the settlement are correct. It is a practice that the Government has accepted through the budgetary procedure this autumn. I personally regret this development, but I cannot see that the Workers' Party now has no choice but to give this signal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e836	It has been pointed out in rather picturesque terms that the Right in its proposal has been a cut in the SND's 350 million frame. kr. One forgets skillfully to refer to the Right exposure to the Seed Capital Fund, which is actually at the same level, which in turn triggers private dollars. One also forgets, of course, skillfully mentioning that the right spends this money on the road sector. Even in its primary budget, there is a proposal worth DKK 1.1 billion above what was proposed by the Government. Unfortunately, we did not get through to that. But I just want to describe what has to be first and foremost important when we take with us the possibility of reaching a market, a district Norway that is export-oriented to those degrees, and which must therefore primarily have the transport corridors in order to keep a business on its feet. In any case, the many issues that were resolved in the budgetary negotiations between the Government and the Right and the Progress Party are positive. The business cycle tax is just one of the many harmful proposals that were removed at a time when we will see that the construction sector will gradually meet a different working day than it has been associated with the last few years. However, my fear is that we are now faced with the long-term effects of being outside the EU. Today we have again got the warning lamp lit, and we have recorded that the crown has once again weakened by a total of 1.5 pst to the ECU index. This is also the lowest level of heads of two and a half months. And those who have believed that the bottom was reached a while ago, today received a confirmation that this was not the case. In this context, it is very important – and here is also my challenge to the Minister of Industry – that the Government take initiatives towards the EU in order to obtain agreements for the Norwegian krona towards the euro, which are to be introduced soon. We can't have a government on these issues that someone wants to fear, and that also takes on the spectator's role in these issues. It is bad enough that we in Norway today have an interest rate that is three times higher than that of our main competitors. Worst thing is that our special interest rate level could threaten to put an end to the investment in our export industry. This also illustrates that we can get a double click because of our distance constraints in relation to our most important market. That is why it is a clear challenge for the Government to ensure that we have an agreement within the texts provided for by the EEA Agreement, and to obtain a euro agreement with the EU, which will otherwise also have to include a link to the new payment systems that we will see to exist within the EU from the turn of the year. The question concerns not only the risk of increasing speculation against the krona, but also the need to achieve a harmonisation that can reduce the increasing trend of Norwegian industry in these days to move its credit exposures abroad. The next step, if we don't get a balance in this system, is unfortunately that we're going to see that Norwegian business is also moving investment from home country to abroad. Today's situation also describes that we have been putting ourselves relatively poor in all our wealth in the last few years. A mixture of election promises and expectations from 1997 together with falls in oil revenues has put us in a situation that does not lack challenges. When the right in the autumn set foot down against our collaborators, the rug should actually be fairly well known. The right did not wish to participate in a political auction with the State Treasury as a source in the 1997 elections. We do not want that now either. We simply couldn't attend and send the extras from the interest jump and from the payroll to, among other things. households in the establishment phase or to small enterprises. It was a clear message to those who have been at the forefront of the barricades during this auction year, and who, among other things. has had as an electoral language that we can afford this as a nation, or that actually we're all lotto millionaires. Yes, those who delivered this message to the payroll negotiators were able to see at least large numbers of paychecks, but they can at least not expect the Right to vote with them this time on the proposal that was made. We simply couldn't join in sending the extra bills for the interest and payroll to the families of children or small businesses. That's how people will have to recognize the Right even for the afterlife. Within the Ministry of Fisheries’s budget, there is one issue that is far more important in the short term than anything else, and it is to put in place a veterinary agreement that can be approved by the Stortinget. At 40 000 to 45 000 jobs, people are today waiting for the outcome of the Stortinget. In connection with this, I just want to add that, in my opinion, the importance of the industry to the nation has not been given its well-deserved place. I just want to remind this assembly that the state support for the industry is probably not more than 2-3 pst. of what the agricultural industry receives. Yes, next year's fishing agreement of 105 million. kr means much less than, for example, aid to shipyards, which has received a lot of attention in today's debate, and insofar as support for employment of seafarers on board Norwegian ships, which we also need to call for. However, there is reason to raise questions about the evolution of the total quotas that can be fished next year and how this will proceed further. It may be relatively risky to set quotas that are much larger in the Norwegian Arctic cod harvest than the ones recommended by the researchers, even though the quantity next year is much smaller than has been the case in recent years. For industry at least this becomes a bit of a challenge, while one has to expect that the landing of Russian cod will be much less than before. In any case, the potential and opportunities for industry will be considerable, but here too we must have a much greater realism in meeting the market that is the most important for the fisheries industry, namely Europe. With regard to the small section of the setting for South Variety, I just want to draw attention to the fact that the Council of State here has to note what a unanimous committee has said. It simply states that the Ministry must implement the decision of the Storting and must be implemented in accordance with the size decided in 1996. There is a clear expectation that this will have to be implemented as soon as possible and preferably in 1999. At the same time, I want to focus on Svalbard and the situation we see there. There's a strong need to get the big message that's been notified year after year, in a situation where we see that this is a society in a very big transformation. The residents of Svalbard take on a more and more dominant position, and it's a matter of course to address the questions about Svalbard's future, and not just future mining, but issues that go into research, democracy debate, etc. It is expected that the Council of State now, as he has been sitting for more than a year, is able to bring this case to a conclusion in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e859	For the Workers' Party, one of the most important elements in the formulation of industrial policy and the protection of the welfare country is having safe, developing and meaningful jobs. Valuation and employment are essential for the creation of good communities. This can only be achieved by providing stability and confidence in both the short and the long term. This is how prices and interest rates are kept down. But now we see that development is going the wrong way, and it will especially affect those who have the least from before, and jobs with high debt. Fair distribution was in the last year's budget debate, claiming a strong ownership relationship with the parties currently in government. Many promises then came, which is forgotten today. Regional policy instruments require attention and follow-up from us as central authorities. When we look at the budget that will be adopted here today, it does not seem to be as important as before. Delocalisation is still increasing, and there is a strong need for a clear district policy with measures to counter this, especially in the context of a business in transition. The districts have significant development potential both in the fishing industry and in the farming industry, oil/gas, mineral extraction and IT. Here, too, the Workers' Party will in the future be a guarantor that we will have a positive development that will benefit the entire community. The guarantee the center gave during the campaign last year, I'm not the one that's most disappointed, because I didn't believe in it. Everyone in the municipalities has had a bitter and costly experience. The settlement along the whole coast has one thing in common: it's the fish that provides the basis for us still living there. The fishing industry has been and will continue to be the most important factor in coastal communities, and it also has a high potential to continue to drive positive developments. Another area of high development potential is aquaculture and shellfish production. Demand for seafood is growing on the world market, and there is stagnation in traditional fishing. It is then important that Norwegian aquaculture is in the position to be a significant supplier of seafood and marine products in the future. Public authorities have a special responsibility here to create framework conditions to enable industry to develop further into an environmentally friendly and strong district industry. But then we also need a varied corporate structure in terms of both size and ownership. Professional leadership and ownership with market competence is necessary. To get all this done, there is one element that needs to be in place, namely that young people see this as challenging jobs. Technology, quality and the market currently require considerable competence in both the fisheries and aquaculture industries, and the overall fishing industry of the future will only reinforce this. The knowledge of individual practitioners will be essential for the profitability and ability of the industry to compete in the markets. Competence enhancement will also contribute to status-enhancing. Therefore, it will be necessary for both industry itself and us politicians to profile opportunities and create positive impressions, especially for young people of school age. One area I'd like to mention in the end is Barents' cooperation. This cooperation has demonstrated its justification and also shows that there are opportunities for development that benefit the whole of the North. We have common values for the people in the same areas, and so far the increased cooperation has taught us that communication at all levels must be the key that leads to increased business cooperation and hence value creation. Norwegian interests have several interesting and serious projects that need not only political but also financial support.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e882	In 1998, the export value of the fishery and aquaculture industries will amount to approximately DKK 28 billion. This is an increase of more than DKK 3 billion from 1997, but a decrease in relation to the estimate in the budget proposal, which was close to DKK 30 billion. The background to the reduced estimate is that the economic problems in Russia and Asia have resulted in a reduction in exports and lower prices for herring and mackerel to these countries. However, there has been a significant increase in prices in most markets, so that the increase in value is achieved by reducing the volume exported. The export value of the aquaculture industry alone is expected to be DKK 9.5 billion next year. This coastal industry currently employs about 15 000 people, directly and indirectly. The potential for development is very high, with opportunities for several thousand new jobs in the coming years, assuming that the industry evolves as a result of the creation of outlets in the markets. The profitability of the fishing and aquaculture industries is an important prerequisite both for ensuring jobs and housing in the fisheries-dependent parts of the country and for the overall economy of the country. I am pleased that the Committee stresses the economic importance of the fishing industry for the whole country, and that the Committee also points out the need to focus more offensively on the fishing industry in the coming years. The Government will facilitate the profitable and sustainable development of the fishing industry through close cooperation with other coastal nations and operators in the fishing industry. From the Norwegian side, great emphasis is placed on the work carried out under the auspices of international fisheries management organisations. The North-East Atlantic Fisheries Commission, NEAFC, is setting up its own secretariat and additional funds are allocated to this in the 1999 budget. In 1999 the control of the withdrawal from fish stocks will be strengthened. As a result of binding international agreements, Norway will introduce a satellite tracking system for fishing vessels. This effort is reflected in the 1999 budget through the priorities of the Directorate-General for Fisheries, which will play a central role in the implementation by the Norwegian side. In addition, the fisheries manager will continue a pilot scheme with inspectors in the fishing fleet and exchanges of inspectors between Member States. In addition, priority needs to be given to monitoring and information on Norwegian whaling. Work on creating a DNA register for wave whales has begun, and the allocation to this is increasing next year. In addition, an increased focus is placed on resource management information, including: linked to the involvement of Norway in relation to the Convention on Trade in Endangered Animal and Plant Species, CITES. I agree with the Committee that the average age of Norwegian fishing vessels is too high and that the fishing industry is struggling with fleet overcapacity. The Government considers that adapting capacity to the resource base by renewing the fleet is one of the main challenges facing the fishing industry in the coming years. The appropriations proposed in the budget of the Ministry of Fisheries, together with a prioritisation of the fishing fleet within the ordinary instruments of the State Food and Rural Development Fund, will provide a basis for capacity reduction and renewal. Overall, the financial base of the government budget will be improved next year. The breeding industry must have the primary responsibility for balancing production growth. However, the Ministry of Fisheries will continue to contribute through production regulatory measures to the balance and sustainability of this growth. The system of feed quotas will therefore be continued in 1999 in close dialogue with industry. In addition, the 31 conventions re-assigned in Finnmark and Troms could be launched next year. I welcome the positive attitude of the Committee on the measures that the Ministry of Fisheries will put in place to further develop Norwegian shellfish industry. I also note that the majority of the Committee is in favour of the Ministry of Fisheries's means of enhancing skills, women's participation and the recruitment of young people for the fisheries and aquaculture industry. The fishing industry will in future depend on a diversity of skills and experience to be competitive in all markets and to trigger the potential of industry. This diversity is created by having both women and men at all levels of industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e909	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e912	The Minister for Fisheries was on the theme of satellite tracking of fishing vessels, and it is probably about the only thing that represents new technological equipment on board the whole fishing fleet. The Minister of Fisheries should be particularly grateful that he has so far been busy renewing the fishing fleet, but it is a paradox that the average age of such vessels in Norway is now 23 1⁄2 years. It is a serious situation, which means that Norwegian fishing is not equipped in a way that meets today’s requirements and must take care of the entire raw material including by-product, which can provide the basis for profitable jobs. As a result, the fishing industry appears to be less attractive when it comes to the working environment and safety, for those who are considering the type of profession to which they are now going to choose. Select here the Norwegian fishing industry will benefit from an interest rate decrease that all hope will result from a tight budget. But how does all this harmonize with the Secretary of State for Fisheries for the fishing fleet? First, he reduces the permission to contract and condemnate from 100 million. DKK in the year's budget at 60 million. The Government's budget proposal, and later he agrees that the proceeds will be further reduced by 10 million. kr. What the Minister for Fisheries has in mind is the impact of this year's fisheries agreement, which provides for the provision of 18 million. kr from last year would come in addition to the 60 million. kr that had been proposed for fleet renewal? It could be exciting to get the Minister's statement about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e921	Yes, whether satellite tracking is the only new technological equipment on board a fishing vessel until next year, I doubt, in fact, because technological developments are going very fast. There's still something new coming. However, satellite tracking is a new system for monitoring the activity of fishing vessels at sea and is therefore considered so important, efficient and resource-efficient that the EU has decided to use it for all fishing vessels over 24 metres to fish in EU waters after 2000. The introduction of satellite tracking has already been incorporated into the fisheries agreement between Norway and the EU, so Norwegian fishing vessels need to install such equipment in order to be able to fish in EU waters after 2000. We aim to introduce satellite tracking for Norwegian vessels also for fishing in Norwegian waters from 2000, in line with the fisheries agreement. with the EU. With regard to the age of fishing vessels, it's nothing new; we've had an old age on the fleet for many years now. What happened last autumn after the new government joined was getting into the budget, with Storting's approval, 75 million. kr to contracting grants, for which the previous government did not see the desirability. In this year's budget, it has been reduced. This may seem regrettable, of course, but from a total assessment of the Norwegian economy, I believe that the Government did a very good job in presenting the budget when it came to the fishing industry. The fact that it was reduced by 10 million. In the budget compromise here in Stortingen, I do not see the major disaster, because what will be the result when the funds adopted for the SND – and of which the fleet can get its share - are put in place next year as a whole, better state funding mechanisms for the renewal of the fishing fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e928	Governments were in the breeding industry. These dumping issues are worrying. We have now had three cases in ten years, and only by threatening this dumping weapon will Norwegian breeders and Norwegian authorities have to accept more or less voluntary measures, to put it that way. It is clear that anti-dumping measures may have their mission and intention if there is unfair competition. There is a good reason to believe that the EU is running a clean and transparent protectionism in many of these cases. We know that farmers within the EU do not have minimum prices, nor do they have feed quotas. Norwegian breeders are forced to slaughter their fish because they have no more feed left. What you may be concerned about from Norway is that there is an increasing number of protectionist measures within the EU that make competition difficult and that other countries, such as the United Kingdom, are also taking action. The markets in the Far East and other markets also introduce similar measures, making it difficult for the Norwegian farming industry. And one can get the impression that the Norwegian authorities are not deploying enough resources to care for the interests of Norwegian farmers. So my question to the Council of State is: Is there any work going on – do you have any national strategy or action plan – that can bring the dumping regimes to life and prevent any new ones?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e937	The problems encountered by the Norwegian farming industry on the Union market have, as the replicator mentioned, been related to the competitive situation of the farming industry in Scotland and Ireland in relation to Norway. But let me stress in general that the farming industry has had its weak economic periods in times when production has grown larger than the market has taken off in a natural way. What can be said to be a problem for the farming industry is that a significant part of all production is sold in a spot market, that is, a daily auction market. It is clear that there are therefore major requirements for cooperation in an industry that constitutes so many hundreds of independent actors – a cooperation that requires market entry to be balanced in relation to the market in order to keep a price. The Norwegian farming industry has been subject to the minimum price on the EU market several times, and many operators in the industry are likely to believe that the minimum price imposed on the industry has helped to save the economy for the industry. So you don't just have to look negatively at the fact that the industry is imposed on a system that is involved and creates a price balance, because that's actually what we have today with the salmon agreement. But it's clear that the situation we have with low crown value creates a better economy for export companies, and that in itself provides a dynamic that makes each producer want to increase production and sell more and provides an economic basis for selling at a lower price. This may create problems in relation to the agreement we now have with the EU, so the authorities have been constantly involved in the process to ensure that Norwegian breeders and Norway are able to maintain the obligations of the agreement we have with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e944	However, we who do not belong to the Committee have seen changes in these fleet-related measures, limited resources to the refurbishment and capacity-adjustment mechanisms. Rita Tveiten was also involved in the contract support that is gone, and the condom support that has been reduced monthly. However, capacity-adjustment can be solved through the structural notification proposal to introduce a unit quota in the coastal fleet, and perhaps there will be an effective response to capacity adjustment. This appears to be a likely basis for the Council of State to live with limited resources in the other mentioned indents, and I would like to ask the Council of State if it is correct to believe that there is an effective capacity-adjustment measure in the structural message.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e949	I do not know if I have correctly understood the representative Hoddevik. I understood it so that he said that the structural communication proposed unit quota schemes for the coastal fleet. In that case, it's not right, it has to be a misunderstanding. The unit quota scheme may be a relatively effective capacity measure for closed fleet groups, i.e. where a concession scheme is in place, where there is no automatic access to the construction of a new fishing vessel. There is no such closure in coastal fisheries, and it is not the Government's aim to close the coastal fishing fleet, i.e. to have access restrictions through concession arrangements to that group. We have put forward proposals for the Storting to make the unit quota system for purse seine and trawl permanent and also open to the introduction of unit quota schemes for seagoing vessels over 28 metres in length as far as fishing with conventional gears is concerned. However, for coastal fleets, we have introduced capacity-reduction measures into the State budget, such as condensation schemes. I consider it to be perhaps the most realistic way of doing things, that in the sea fishing fleet, where concession arrangements are in place, there are unit quotas, and for the rest of the fleet there must be government instruments, such as condensation schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e954	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e957	The articles and debates this evening have shown that there has now been a common understanding of the relationship between good industrial policy and economic policy. Food and rural policy instruments are not enough if we do not manage to keep interest rates and costs down. The most important instrument in the future is, in fact, what we in the Labour Party have referred to as the option of solidarity, with the elements that lie there: solidarity of pay and dampening economic policies in high-economic periods and corresponding expansions in low-cyclical periods. And then the other one. A vertices like Norway must be at the forefront of the world when it comes to developing and implementing new information technologies. Information technology leads, inter alia, to: increasing world trade and attracting new areas into the global economy. We have to sew to get our share of the information services and product markets. IT and IT competence have been a key factor in industrial development, and then we need to strengthen IT competence. We must, among other things, improve the interaction between educational institutions and business and strengthen the role of both industry and educational institutions as international actors. The government has been asked by the Storting in several contexts to take responsibility for the realisation of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu as one of several contributions to strengthening IT competence. We will return to Fornebu in connection with St.meld. No 13, but I have to take advantage of it, since the IT and knowledge centres at Fornebu have been mentioned in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade budget, to remind the Minister of Industry of some of the premises and leaderships that have been given to Fornebu by the Industry Committee in the management of the IT notification before the summer break. Firstly, there is an urgent need to start a business that connects education and business development. So far, however, relatively little has happened. Secondly, a formal framework must be established for the training activities and the industrial development to be established in the terminal building and the rental income from the business must be used to strengthen the training activity. This turns the Government away from the news that has come so far. In addition, the Business Committee said that provision had to be made for education, networked education, interaction with regional centres and incubator operations. And the committee said that this should be done in practice, the buyers in question had to put forward a plan for how they intend to meet the requirements of the state to an IT and knowledge centre. A large enough area also had to be put at the disposal of one to meet such a purpose. Where does this follow? I can't see that submitted plans from stakeholders are being taken into account, and the Koksa area is being exposed to the hall before final plans that show the need for a land area for an IT and knowledge centre are grounded. I suggest that a current area of an IT and knowledge centre should not be sold until there is a holistic solution for such a centre. Based on what the government has said before, the government must understand that this is not a traditional property project, but a plan for how we, Norway, can, in interaction with public and private actors, exploit an attractive land area to create a knowledge center. I don't have much to worry about a "cash business," but here it is almost so that the government asks for it. In addition to economic policy and new technologies, knowledge and adaptability will determine future industrial developments. The commitment to research and development is essential for Norwegian enterprises to be able to meet the challenges and take the opportunities. The Labour Party therefore believes that it would be right to strengthen the budget when it comes to industrial research and scientific equipment, but in the civil coalition's framework decision there is no room for it. Yes, a scheme as good as the corporate advisory service is also zero out. Here one should at least hold the 20 million. NOK which corresponds to what is now being used. The economic profile of this approved state budget is certainly not so easily discernible.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e980	Our business life is facing major challenges in the coming years. Major structural changes in Europe and the rest of the world provide more integrated markets. This strengthens international competition. For fewer and fewer enterprises, it makes sense to distinguish between the domestic and export markets. They also face international competition at home and must be the best in their field internationally in order to succeed. There is often an impression that we live on oil and raw materials in Norway. That's not right. It is and will be human knowledge and competence that make a major contribution to the creation of value added. The boom we've experienced in recent years has shown us that our most important resource, competent labour force, is not something we have unlimited access to. The situation therefore imposes considerable demands on a budget that both dampens the pressures of the economy and provides the basis for a competitive and resilient business. There is reason to be satisfied with the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties, the Right and the Advance Party. It pursues what was the main objective of the Government with the State budget, namely to achieve the necessary tightening. As Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, I am more concerned with targeting budgetary resources against industrial innovation. In the draft budget, many measures were justified. This applies, for example: the project development grant. It will contribute to more commercialisation of research results. Another example is the new high-speed communication grant scheme. Furthermore, the use of resources in the SND and the Research Council is given greater priority to projects based on the use of technological competences. I am very pleased that this innovation orientation has, in essence, been endorsed in the Committee's consideration of the budget. At the same time as the budget, the Government presented an action plan for small businesses. The plan is a concreteisation of the Government’s main objectives in business policy, making it easier to start and run businesses in Norway. The major challenge is to remove unnecessary barriers to the growth and development of businesses. Stronger focus on general government and active efforts to reduce the form field are needed here. Cleaning up the regulations, better analysis of the impact of changes in the rules on small enterprises, increased re-use of data and customised information are important areas of action in this context. For industry, it is important that the public sector sector appears to be coherent and that it is well organised. The aim is to have one common door to public guidance and assistance for business. Here you should be able to get help whether the need is advice in starting a business or guidance in export work to other parts of the world. Coordination with Norway’s industrial Attachés and the work of the Norwegian Export Council is one important measure here. Coordination is based on the recognition that internationalisation is not just about increasing exports of new products. This is about accessing new technologies and skills to produce these products. Today's government parties were part of the majority of the population who asked the previous government to promote a proposal for a seed capital scheme. First, through the Government's proposals for the 1999 government budget, we have received a strong regional distribution of efforts. Seed capital is important for innovation. That is why, of course, these schemes should also apply to the internal East, even if it is not a separate regional seed fund for this part of the country. It is intended that the central seed fund, the START Fund, should also perform this function. I would like to stress that the Government is concerned that the cereal regimes are available throughout the country, and we will therefore, as the Committee also asks, assess the situation of the internal East. In some areas, there will in future be strong competition for labour. It is important that Norwegian enterprises can claim to be here, and that even start-ups are able to maintain skilled labour. It is therefore important that the legislation on options for employment is now improved. The feedback from the business community has also been good. The possibility of using option agreements is essential for new low-wage enterprises to be able to hold competent workers. The approach reflects a consensus on the long-term challenges of Norwegian business. There is also agreement to facilitate a forward-looking and competitive business that can reduce our dependence on petroleum revenues. This is also the main objective of the Government’s industrial policy. A long and international boom has resulted in almost only happy messages from business in recent years. In the demanding economic situation now in Norway, there are also likely to be several of the less encouraging notifications. In this situation, it is essential that we are able to stick to the long-term objectives of industrial policy and that we focus on the ability to convert. Contradicting the necessary conversion will hardly lead to long-term.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1014	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1017	There can be no doubt that Minister Sponheim knows to flag the small, positive flowers that are in his budget, and he wisely knows to keep away from what is negative. And that's the way it should be in and out of it. I cannot, however, be allowed to have a little bit of a beggar when the Minister of Industry says that business is facing major challenges, not least when it comes to innovation and competence. Then it's a little surprising, to put it mildly, that the nutrition research is down-priority, research and development contracts are down-priority, the export council is down-priority, the Technological Institute is down-priority, NORTRA is down-priority and the business consultancy is gone. Then I have to say, it's going to be small what's left. An action plan for small and medium-sized enterprises is important enough in itself, but the concrete measures are relatively moderate, although the old flowers of the Sponheim State Council to reduce the form field are still alive. And then we'll see how long they are. We're going to have to wait anxiously for the actual results. But my question to the Minister of Industry is: Is the Minister of Industry really as satisfied with the budget that is now being adopted, which he just gave the impression of? Enterprises and business are clearly not, after all the calls the Committee has had in recent times.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1026	Yes, what is small and big, and what is important for businesses, is obviously about this debate. I think there will be quite a broad consensus that perhaps some of the most important businesses will experience in this situation is to be able to have a fiscal policy that at least provides the national basis for a lower level of interest. And then we're going to hope that we also get help from the outer forces to get it done. It represents huge costs for businesses and really does something about the competitiveness of businesses when they have to live at a level of interest rates in Norway that is dramatically higher than competitors in neighbouring countries, for example. had to have. Therefore, it has been necessary for the Government to have such a tight budget as the Government has submitted, and which has now been passed on to what is a majority in the back of the Grand Duchy. And it's been absolutely essential to do that. Then it's enough that, after so many years of tightening up fiscal policies and budgets that we've experienced – that's actually the sixth year now with a quite significant tightening – it's going to have to go beyond completely vital areas. And that's quite typical. We can monitor developments in this boom from the beginning of 1993 until now, how the active allocations to various support schemes for business and industry have had to decrease. It is only to follow developments in the SND appropriations, which the representative Opseth has been discussing earlier in this debate. This is probably also the case in a situation where economic activity is on the rise, where major constraints have to be taken, in which case companies must also be involved and take part in the allocations. I don't think that's so unreasonable. However, such decisive measures that continue to keep stock discounts in the wealth tax of the smallest enterprises, the family-run enterprises, take care of the elements of the sharing model, as the companies themselves say are so important to them, etc., are crucial for family businesses. It has also been possible within a tight budget, and it feels that businesses out there are important. And that certainly distinguishes the adopted budget very much from what had to be the primary position of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1035	The Council of State stated that there have been many happy messages for Norwegian business, but that we are moving towards more difficult times, and that we must then stick to our long-term objectives, as he said. An area that is now facing major problems is the oil sector, with low oil prices, and it is likely to force cost reductions and downsizing in the oil industry. It is not only negative, because it can help improve the competitiveness of the Norwegian base. But what's less positive is that it can push forward unfortunate things in terms of safety, that you gamble with the safety of the socket and also the maintenance of the installations. But I expect the government to continuously assess these things and take into account the minimum possible adverse effects on the Norwegian economy. Then I'll come to the conclusion that we have a special code for the Norwegian base, a special tax regime. We have CO2 taxes and much, much more that makes the Norwegian base very expensive compared to other areas. And my question to the Council of State is: are special measures being assessed in this context, so that Norwegian pedestal in the future can also be as competitive and profitable as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1044	The representative Hedstrøm asked me questions which, after the constitutional division of responsibility in the government, would probably have been addressed to another government council, but I can assure the representative that there is no doubt that the government is concerned that we are getting an adjustment of the activity in the North Sea at the prices that are economically sound for those who have to be out there. It is quite clear that the price drop we are experiencing now has a significant impact on the business-economy adjustment for those who are there and that in the next round it puts pressure on the framework conditions we are always putting there. We see how the media are now creating a debate that makes even those who set framework conditions from both government and growth, of course, depend entirely on having an ongoing assessment of it. What I feel absolutely convinced of is that no Norwegian authorities will at any time under any external framework conditions do something that could compromise their security. On the other hand, we see that perhaps the activity and investment needs in the North Sea will fall as a result of the oil price and the changes that you may have to undergo with a long-term low level of aid are the consequences and ring-effects that it will have. on land and for another major issue today, the question of yard support. The uncertainty surrounding the industries that depend on the activity of the North Sea, for example: by providing special ships over a long period of time – is primarily related to the fact that this is an important and affordable market for ships constructed in Norway, which is about to fall away. There is no doubt that the Norwegian shipyards’ orders are today high. Only at the end of the third quarter of September, the order book was almost NOK 24 billion. When we know that the annual capacity in the Norwegian shipyard industry is 8-10 billion kroner, it is a gigantic order mass that is within the capacity. However, it has to be delivered in a relatively short time, and the uncertainty is probably mainly related to the changes that the shipbuilding industry on land has to make, as a consequence of the changes in oil prices and the rate of investment in the North Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1051	I stand here with the agreement that was concluded between the government parties and the Progress Party and the Right with regard to the budget. Here I think there's a lot that'll be able to please the state council beyond the year that's coming, and that makes the state council's everyday life easier for Sponheim. One of the points included in this agreement was: ‘The Government is making proposals in 1999 on sub-privatisation and the listing of Telenor’. On Telenor, State Council Sponheim said in the Liberal Forum of the Left: ‘There have been some large guillotines that lack the corrective private ownership. The fact that we in the Left have gone from having no influence to contributing to such important societal changes gives me a good feeling. We do not seek power for the sake of power. We have an important political agenda.' Giving the council a good feeling is a side effect that I'm of course glad he's got. The fact that this has now become a new cause of victory for the Left is, to a large extent, very interesting given that the Council of State did not include it in the budget proposal presented on 5 October. I think it might be natural to give Sponheim a chance to explain this a little bit more. The same newspaper that I got in hand today says about special left-hand items in the budget agreement. It is mentioned that it is pleased that the three additional health pay days have not been introduced, that zero taxation has been implemented, that the reimbursement scheme for seafarers is maintained, that there is an increase in the benefits for Telenor, for the sale of shares in Arcus, that the recommendations of the Blaalid Committee are taken up, and that the Government reduces a sample for the review of the Work Environment Act. It is a pleasure that, through the budget agreement, the Right has helped to make the Council of State's everyday life brighter, but what I would expect is whether he shares the opinion expressed by some other central left-wing people, namely that we have a better budget, and then I am talking about the Minister of Industry's responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1074	A budget is good enough for the country only when it has a majority behind in the Stortinget. I think that must be a pretty clear recognition, and for a minority government, it's an obvious recognition. Fine-tuning – as much of the debate in the big room is about budgetary matters – which of the various minority draft budgets that may be the best for the country is an interesting academic exercise in itself, but the fact is that a budget is good enough when it has a majority behind it. The budget which now has a majority in mind in a conciliation between the centre parties and the Right and the Progress Party is a good budget for the country, because it has a majority and will therefore have an impact on the country. It primarily has a tightness, which is the national contribution we can make to bring down the interest rate. I have no problem in being able to enjoy both the Right and the Advance Party because they have significantly affected the budget that exists. This must be the case when a government with 42 representatives behind it is dependent on having about an equivalent number to obtain a majority. That would also affect the budget. Turning the size of this budget deal into something huge, I think maybe we could reflect a little more around – your memory is often short! I remember that when we stood here two years ago, when the government of Jagland presented their first and only budget, which they at least had to live with for a while, it was also a significant move after the budget was presented. The amount of the agreement that was then concluded between the government party and the center parties was approximately NOK 6 billion. There is also about the level of the settlement that has now been concluded, and a standard was set for how a settlement partner should move and negotiate a budget. In this way, this isn't something very different than what we've seen before. It is just nice that the conciliators are also satisfied with the result.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1083	The cord shift is over. The regulatory period has also immediately run out, and the President will propose that this meeting be extended until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1088	So far out in the debate there's not so much new to say, but I'm going to do the exercise I had planned. In the Labour Party, we have always understood that we need an emerging business life that gives jobs to people and secures income for our important common good. This is not a new insight for us, this is not a right-hand position. The right point is to be the most busy of all companies. We in the Workers' Party are also occupied by employees, by value creation and by ensuring our common well-being. In this way, the country will be given a right-wing budget tonight, a budget that will take more consideration of good tax conditions for shipowners and stock speculators and less for common good, such as sick home places, kindergartens and school leisure arrangements. But at least the saying must have a strong bismach for the Right, as for example. joins in adding multiples a reduced narrowing of 1.5 billion krat Norwegian shipyards will have poorer framework conditions than we are competing with, at a time when it is fewer to compete if licenses to business competence transfer are reduced by 21 million. kr – do not increase by 15 million. kr, as the Right proposed in its primary proposed NORTRA, to promote Norwegian travel life, an industry with a high potential, is reduced by 1 million. kr – do not increase by 10 million. kr, as the Right proposed, that the authorisations for export promotion measures be reduced by 4 million. kr - to name a few examples. The common thing about these rights is that they have a lot of ringing effects. It also has research where the Labour Party has increased the rights by 50 million. kr in addition to the plural's suggestion. For an Ideamaker, it's e.g. important to be able to get help and advice to come from idea to enterprise. It is not stated that the idea maker has the necessary knowledge or capital to do this. He or she may not have the money to pay a consultant/consultant to add what he or she needs to develop the idea, or knowledge of the various support schemes in question. In such contexts, the Business Advisory Service has performed well, as also stated in theproposition. Nevertheless, this offer shall be reorganised and, where appropriate, closed. I know business starters in my state who say they wouldn't clear the process from idea to establishment without the help of Rogaland Nutrition. In the future, such opportunities may be lost. In the worst case, the built-in competence of these offices is also lost. The majority have zeroes out for economic and administrative advice, as we have said before. Verbal assurances that the scheme will continue under the SND are a little difficult to believe, but of course it is to hope. It is also clear which measures will be reduced. The Labour Party believes that with the food budget agreed tonight, it is going the wrong way for business and thus for the economic foundation of Norway. This comes in addition to sky-high interest rates and accelerating price growth. The majority view at times to the primary position and at times to the later position, whichever they think is the best. I don't know what the budget option is for the plural here tonight. The representative Hedstrøm has, to a large extent, admitted that the Progress Party supports the agreement but remains in favour of it, while the Minister of Agriculture made reference to the settlement option with which it was natural to compare the Workers' Party's figures. The Labour Party was actually open to budgetary conciliation with the Government Party. We were willing to jeopardize us, even in relation to cash shocks, to get a tight budget with good distribution. But the block-independent government turns to the Right again, right enough for 12 hours. It's a shame in several areas. It may also have a bismach for the government party. This led, among other things, to This led to better conditions for shipowners and shareholders. This is traditional right-wing policy, but I'm just wondering how it tastes for the government party. The government party could, by being as flexible as we are when it comes to cash support, have certain multiples for something else. On the food budget, it could, for example, in the form of a package of goods, whether or not in the form of a package of goods, supporting, not rejecting, that the shipbuilding industry with thousands of jobs in Coast Norway could have, directly and indirectly, a level playing field with which to remove its tax exemption from the shipowners, and then paved the way for us to support the continuation of the reimbursement system for seafarers. These two schemes, especially those supported by shipyards, are entirely decisive for work and housing in the districts, and – of which there is a lot of talk – it has more to say than all the world's transmission systems. In addition, such cooperation could provide a number of opportunities for action to secure existing jobs and facilitate the development of new ones, which I have already had. But block independence is just a story, and the government has made itself dependent on the right side by raising the right to cash support close to an eleventh floor. Minister of Economic Affairs Lars Sponheim does not rarely owe you to the Labour Party. And now he says that it was the Labour Party that ran off and let the Center Party take responsibility. The claim falls essentially on its own primacy. In addition, it reveals a government council that is not ready to take responsibility for itself. Now not all the world of major business issues the Minister of Industry has sent to us in 13 – 14 months, and much of the same is said in different messages and plans. We now have a business message for the management of the committee. Here there are some good things to do when it comes to analysis, while proposals for concrete solutions are few, short-term and largely decided when we get as far as the handling of the message. Several of the questions raised were answered in e.g. the revised national budget, in the notification of competence, in the ownership message and now in the context of the budget. What's said now is essentially questions that the Storting will come back to in each budget. In the Labour Party we are particularly little satisfied that issues relating to the organisation of the Regional Business Advisory Service and the organisational location of the Norwegian industrial Attachés are also withdrawn from the little context of the Enterprise Communication. We record that there is a majority primarily to deal with these questions in connection with the message, but that this has been the victim of the big deal. That being said, we in the Workers' Party would like to see a far more long-term and holistic review of the support and auxiliaries we have set up for Norwegian companies outside and at home. We believe that resources can be better used with fewer and more coordinated measures, and we believe that it might be interesting to have some sort of device that is more flexible and tailor-made in the individual region, in each country. This is what we will get back to when the message is processed. There is now a proposal for a reduction of 52 million SND's permissions. kr, without a reason. First of all, I would like to remind you that the Labour Party would primarily have had higher promises in the Ministry of Industry's budget and thus keep to the law of the Government's proposal in St. pp. No 1 in this field. When the majority have reduced the framework, we see it as very unfortunate, because it is important to maintain a certain level of nationwide schemes, it is important to stimulate the establishment and security of jobs throughout the country. However, when we have to reduce this, we see it as at least unfortunate to take this off the development momentum. An option where we zero out loss funds for granted loans in the budget mine by 25 plus 10 million. kr, which is the proposal, which will mean that we will reduce the amount of the guarantee by four times as much, looks more problematic. It reduces the administrative privileges of a required conversion period. The working party goes against this. In the Labour Party, we hope that Sponheim will soon see the ability to listen to advice, even if they come from the Workers' Party or LO, instead of debting others, and that he is on the verge of a holistic, offensive and forward-looking industrial policy, which at the same time takes account of the call for stable framework conditions. Working together with the social partners can also be a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1149	We all know the problems that have come to light in the world economy in the last year. Strong turbulence in exchange, currency and energy markets has affected the economy and the prospects for both businesses and individuals. Norway, which has a small, open economy and high incomes from exports of raw materials, in the foremost range of oil and gas, has become a full framework. Lack of confidence in the Norwegian economy has led to pressure on the krona and an increase in interest rates. This has sent shock waves into the Norwegian economy and created uncertainty for both households and businesses. In the worst case cases, such uncertainties may once again lead to an increase in unemployment in the Norwegian economy. We know from experience that small and medium-sized enterprises with low equity will be very hard hit by interest rate shocks and general uncertainty. The budgetary agreement with subsidiary support from the Right and the Progress Party will – based on the situation – make an important contribution to creating renewed confidence in the Norwegian economy. For me, it is important to establish that business is among the priority areas of this budgetary agreement. It's important that, as the situation is now, we look forward and invest in an all-round and innovative business while taking care of well-established industries. The legislation must not favour large companies by creating difficulties for small ones, and the policy must aim at strengthening all parts of business. Then we will have the best possible starting point to meet today's and tomorrow's challenges in the care of the elderly, hospitals and the school sector. We have a shared responsibility to create a sustainable and stable business environment for years to come. Fishing and aquaculture are one of the most important export industries we have in Norway today. The industry is still increasing and now stands for an export value of several tens of billion dollars. This industry has a central place in my own home country of Hordaland. In order for this industry to continue to play such an important role, we need to focus on sustainable resource management. We can't take out more resources than we can ensure a high and sustainable yield. At the same time, this industry is part of a larger global industry. Innovation, product development and flexibility are particularly important in maintaining and developing competitive opportunities. It is also important to bear in mind that much of our fishing resources are shared with other nations, and therefore international work and regulation are very important. This work is central to the sustainability of the industry. Unregulated fishing is a major threat to resource management. Therefore, it is important to work for a well-functioning international management system. The Directorate of Fisheries has an important role to play in managing our marine resources. The role of the Directorate is to contribute to the sustainable management of resources and to facilitate the profitable development of industry in relation to both national and international regulatory positions. The agricultural industry is another industry that means a lot to us in Norway. Here, too, it is important to provide long-term, defence-related resource management and thus secure jobs. Agriculture is important both in terms of industrial policy and employment and, not least, in order to maintain activity in the districts. At the same time, it is another important role for agriculture to ensure safe and safe food from production to consumption. State food surveillance plays an important role in this context, as their overarching objective is to ensure that food is both safe and safe. In order to achieve this, it is important that communication is good between administration and consumers in relation to industry. The government budget adopted this year will help restore confidence in the Norwegian economy. When traditional areas such as oil and gas fail, it is important to use all the resources available to Norway, both tangible and intangible, as knowledge and competences. It is knowledge and competence that the industries of the future must be built on. And then we must not least take care of small businesses so that they can grow and develop even through more uncertain times, as we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1175	I am pleased that a unanimous committee requires that the decision of the Stortinge inter alia. that the country's involvement in A/S Southern Warehouses will be terminated by the end of 1998 at the earliest opportunity. In St. pp. No 62 for 1995-96 on A/S Sydvaranger\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Ministry aims at facilitating the use of A/S Sydvaranger’s facilities for new activities. The main objective is to actively use freed berths, industrial areas and farm buildings in the creation of jobs and new activities in South Varanger.» And on the other hand, ‘The Ministry considers that it is important that work on setting up a new activity should start as soon as possible. It would not be appropriate to transfer the installation to stakeholders who lack an offensive approach to exploit it for the development of new business.» Further: «A/S Sydvaranger also owns and disposes of large areas in the centre of the Church. It would not be natural, according to the Ministry, for the company to continue as the largest owner of the property in the centre of the Church after the closure of the ore-based establishment. The Ministry is therefore in favour of starting work as soon as possible with the aim that A/S Sydvaranger will dispose of its properties in the centre of the Church and that the work will be carried out in consultation with the municipality of South Varanger. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Energy asks the Stortinge to be authorised to manage State interests in A/S S S S S S S S S S S S S S W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W It is important that this work is carried out as quickly and efficiently as possible. The Ministry's objective is that by the end of 1998, the country's involvement in the A/S South Warehouses will cease without further State appropriations.» The size joined this with an overwhelming majority. I have noticed that the board of South Variety ASA, as it is now called, has decided that the company will continue until further notice on a purely commercial basis. I have also noticed that the company will be the owner of Pasvik Kraft, that a merger with suitable industrial companies could, in the view of the board, be a good solution for the company, and that the board of directors assumes that the company will retain important properties, including: berthing facilities. This is contrary to the assumptions made in the grossing-up proposition and in the treatment of the Storting. The Ministry must therefore ensure, as soon as possible, that the Storting's assumptions are taken into account in further work and that the Council of State follows the Storting's assumptions in exercising its ownership position in the company. It is serious that the conversion work in South Varanger is delayed and weakened in intensity due to the fact that the company has not followed up the assumption that the company's former properties and facilities should be actively used in the conversion work. In the same way as transferring the plant to stakeholders who lack an offensive approach to the development of new business was seen as impractical in the proposition, it is of course also impractical to continue ownership that lacks such an offensive approach. Southern Commodities ASA has over time contributed large State transfers in order to make the necessary investments and continue its operations. It is difficult to defend the fact that the organisation of new businesses and new jobs in South Varanger is prevented, inter alia, from taking place. as a result of an assessment by the company of how they can make maximum use of possible tax arrangements, etc. In the context of the large state transfers that the company has received, the way in which the company is now acting – contrary to the need for conversion in South Varanger, contrary to the wishes of the community and contrary to the signals of the Stortinge, which the Stortinget has expressed as a dominant owner in the company – is difficult to characterise as something other than an unethical conduct of business. The Council of State has to comply as soon as possible with the directive of a unanimous committee today, to do what the Council of State has said in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1207	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1210	The reason why I take the floor is that the allocation to NORTRA is unfortunately cut from 88 million. NOK 82 million. kr in the budget currently presented. Right went in to increase the appropriation by 10 million. kr, but due to the budgetary agreement, NORTRA loses 6 million. kr. There is a lot of money for this organisation that was also reduced in 1997. It becomes even more dramatic when we know that Norway is among the countries of Western Europe that are the worst placed on the market. Turkey and Greece are behind us, otherwise we are in line with Malta. And if we take the Nordic countries, we'll be there too. Denmark spends 130 million. SEK in marketing, Sweden 180 million. SEK and Finland SEK 105 million. kr. There is no reason for Norway to be the worst in the Nordic class and among the worst in the European class. In order to maintain the marketing of Norway, we cannot have a mountain and valley track effect. We have to have long-term goals, and marketing has to be stable over time. In addition, new markets need to be created, and funds are needed for this. I therefore hope that when we come to the revised national budget, the minister who before he entered the government said that travel life was very important to the districts, and that this was something to bet on, will make sure that those words are observed. No other industry has such a sprinkling effect as the tourism industry. It's the world's biggest industry, and it creates one job every two and a half seconds. And in the time we're going into now, how largely everyone – except the government – thinks that we're going to get more unemployment, at least the government should seize the opportunity to make sure that there's more marketing of Norway. I hope that we can get back to this in the revised, and that the travel industry can finally get the means to keep the pressure that should be out of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1223	I asked for a three-minute post because I noticed that the Council of State Sponheim gave a somewhat amazing answer to the question from the representative Gabrielsen if he rejoiced over the additions to the budget to which the Right had been given. He then replied that he was happy on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party, but he did not express any joy from the Left over the impact made in the budget for positive economic development in Norway. I wonder if the Council of State's response can be interpreted in such a way that the priorities for which the Right has been implemented are not among the areas for which the Council of State will continue to be a priority. In particular, it makes me anxious since the representative Kongshaug confirmed that the Government is using the reimbursement scheme as a balancing item in the budget. And neither did Kongshaug respond if you had a dialogue with the Minister of Industry to ensure stable conditions in the long term. So I would like to ask the Council of State: will he, on his own initiative, promote a bill or a notice that will ensure the stability of the reimbursement system for seafarers, or will he here wait for further instructions from the Stortinget? The Councils of State mentioned the areas he was looking forward to in the draft budget which has been under consideration here today. Cleaning up the form field has been highly prioritised by the State Council of Sponheim, and it is a priority which he very much shares with the Right. The right-hand side really looks forward to Sponheim doing something with this cumbersome mass of form that the business community spends a lot of resources filling in, and I assume that the government spends the same amount of resources controlling. So I'd like to ask Sponheim, when can we wait anything in this area? When does this work begin to bear fruit in the department?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1230	I must say to the representative Stolt-Nielsen that it is not possible to promote a law that ensures some financial arrangements for all time. It depends, of course, on the maintenance of the arrangements through the annual budget decision of the Storting. However, the Council of State has noticed what is being said in the recommendation that the settlement partners now expect the reimbursement scheme and the other framework conditions for the shipping industry to be established during this large-scale period. I can also say that the work on the form field, which is not just about reducing the number of forms, but about setting in motion a targeted fight to reduce the number of regulations and rules that regulate the form field, we will start quite quickly on a proposal from the Food Law Committee, and I hope we will be able to succeed in that. There are 12,000 regulations and regulations that Norwegian enterprises today have to deal with – 7 000 at state level and the rest at municipal level. I asked first and foremost for the floor because of the contribution of the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen, where he made quite strong objections to the ministry's way of dealing with the liquidation of the churches and the South Banks. That is the case, and I can confirm that the Governing Board has taken the following decision: «The company continues until further notice on a purely commercial basis with Pasvik Kraft and the necessary business activities with the aim of providing an optimal return/solution for the shareholders.» On the part of the Ministry, it is clear – and the company has been informed – that this winding-up must take place as soon as possible, but there has been a delay since the original decision in 1996 provided for full winding-up by the end of 1998. That delay is the Stortinget orientated in connection with St.prp. No 65 for 1997-98, which was presented in May this year, and this delay is mainly due to four factors. This concerns the agreement with the Australian mining company ABM, which, on a commercial basis, wants to start up mining again, and which was given a deadline until April to clarify whether they will implement the option they have – it is 90 million. kr – and pay for the rights per cent. month to sit with it during the delay. As regards part of the commercial and tax aspects, it would be beneficial for the company to carry out the sale of assets, including Pasvik Kraft’s holdings, over a slightly longer period of time, as is now possible through 1999. In addition, the company has some difficult issues in relation to environmental obligations, and in particular there is a claim from the Swedish Höganäs towards Sydvaranger of 47 million. kr, which one is working on finding a solution. However, this work is progressing, and there is no problem for the Council of State to be able to live with what is now in the position that one assumes that this will happen as soon as possible, preferably during 1999. There's as much speed as possible here, and it's also about land sales in the centre of the Church.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1244	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1258	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 933]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1272	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 935]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1286	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 935]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1294	It shall then be put to the vote in the case No. 3-6.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1301	A total of 19 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Kjell Opseth, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 4-9, by Øystein Hedstrom, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 10-14, by Mr Hedstrom on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 15, by Ansgar Gabrielsen on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 16-18, by Karin Andersen, on behalf of Socialist Left-wing proposal No. 19, from Odd Roger Enoxen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left Proposal No. 19 replaces the proposal for a decision in Framework Area 9. The change consists of a re-posting on top. 2420 State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund. Proposals Nos. 16-19 is distributed among the representatives; the other proposals are included in the vote. There will now be an explanation of vote for those who feel the need for it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1329	I would ask the Labour Party to vote against proposal No. 4 to 15. In the case of proposal No: 16, from the representative, Andersen, I would like to ask that it be converted into a transmission proposal. If not, I will ask the Labour Party to vote against. In the case of proposals No. 17 and 18, I ask the Labour Party members to vote against them as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1334	I would ask the SV's group to vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal for the different frameworks and against proposals outside the framework included in the vote. Then I will, upon request, do the re-proposal No. 16 to a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1339	That should be ready for voting. The President will propose to vote first on proposals outside the framework of the 1999 budget. In other words, we start with the proposals No. 16-18, from the Socialist Left Party, then on proposal No. 15, from the Right, looked at the proposals No. 10-14, by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4-9, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Finally, the proposal for a decision under the frameworks 9, 10 and 11 and the corresponding proposals are accepted. – No objections have been raised to this, and this is how it will be done. Proposal No. 16, from the Socialist Left Party, has now been converted into a transmission proposal and the introduction to the proposal is replaced by ‘Recommendation to the Government’, etc. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit proposals for: A strategy in which organic farming is a central investment in Norwegian agriculture. A market analysis and a plan of measures to increase the share of organic products in the groceries market. An upper ceiling for transfers for each use. A plan to increase the use of outlaws.’» The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17 and 18, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to implement the cap distribution. 2425, SND and County Councils, in such a way that county councils which have approved regional development plans may retain 20 pst. [[RUP]] from the allocation framework independent of new application rounds.» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide a policy change of cap. 2425, SND and the counties, so that each county council is responsible for the distribution of the item between its own actions and transfers to the regional SND.»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1385	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 15 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the privatisation of the company Svalbard Service Operations.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1398	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10-14, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a reorganization of standardisation activities with a view to establishing a fully integrated standardisation organisation, in which the overall responsibility for all standardisation work is added to the Ministry of Industry and Trade.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the winding-up of the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for the removal of existing provisions relating to the compulsory residence and operation’.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose the repeal of the Sale of Goods Act.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose the winding-up of the State Agricultural Bank.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1434	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-9, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the sale of state holdings in Norsk Hydro ASA.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the sale of State holdings in AS Olivin.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the sale of State holdings in Raufoss ASA.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the sale of state holdings in the Kongsberg Group ASA’.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose the abolition of the State’s pre-emptive right to agricultural property.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for the winding-up of concessional limits granted under the Law on Acquired Livestock.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e1476	It shall now be votted over the framework area 9. In this framework, a proposal for a decision has been distributed which replaces the suspension. That is proposal No. 19 from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «Room area 9 I.The State budget for 1999 is allocated under: Expenditure [[Industry]] Cap.PostFormålKronerKroner900The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade and the counties51The district development grant, fund, can be used under cap. [[SND]] 551 item 51809 000 00053Aids to cover losses on loans 120 000 000Total expenditure3 789 925000 Income Cape VerdePostFormsCroner3900Ministry of Commerce and Industry [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2420)]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e4451	We're done with Framework Area 9 and we're moving on to Framework Area 10.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e4822	There is an aberrant proposal here. That is proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, which reads: ‘I. The 1999 budget provides for: Chapter.PostObjectivesCronesCronesExpenditure1000Fisheries Ministry 1Operating expenditure 48 500 00070Fundings miscellaneous purposes 200 0001001Integration in international organisations70Funds 5 120 0001030Directorate of Fisheries [[(see section 4.4). cap. 1030)]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e6415	There is an aberrant proposal here. That is proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, which reads: ‘I. The 1999 budget provides for: Chapter.PostDestinationCronesCronesExpenditure1100Ministry of Agriculture [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2411)]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08-2.ana.ud1654e8629	There is no record.
