ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e37	The representative, Dag Danielsen, who has been licensed, has taken the seat again. Three permit applications are filed: from the Group of the Party of European Socialists on the welfare permit of the representative Anne Britt Stråtveit from 16 November onwards and until further notice from the representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen on leave from 16 November to 18 November in order to take part in a meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western European Union, VEU, in Rome from the representative Ivar Østberg on the leave of 18 and 19 November in order to take part, after invitation, in the official opening of the Institute for the Development of Children and the GAAS Centre at the Pomoruniversity of Arkhänsk On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: The applications will be dealt with immediately and be accepted. The following alternates are called to meet during the leave period: For the West-Agder counties: Sigmund KroslidFor Akershus County: André KåkkestadFor Troms County: Ruth Stenersen Sigmund Kroslid is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets Anne Britt Stråtveit.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e88	The President will propose that a President-in-Office be elected for the Stortinget meeting today – and see it as agreed. The President is asking for proposals to the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e93	I suggest Ursula Evje.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e98	There are suggestions about Ursula Evje. There are no other proposals, and Ursula Evje is elected as chairman of the meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e106	The representative, Jan Simonsen, wants to make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e109	On behalf of the representatives Jørn L. Stang, Vidar Kleppe, Terje Knudsen and myself, I am delighted to make a private proposal for an action plan to increase the security of police officers.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e115	The representative, Erna Solberg, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e118	On behalf of Sverre J. Hoddevik and myself, I am delighted to make proposals to set up an independent selection to review laws and other legislation that restrict municipal autonomy and contribute to less effective governance, and that the selection will work according to the model of the Federation of Economic Law Commissions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e123	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e135	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 413]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e149	The Municipal Committee has examined the proposal submitted by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs on the 85th International Labour Conference in Geneva from 3 to 19 June and on Norway's position on Convention No. 181 and Recommendation No. 188 on private employment services and the ILO Constitution, as adopted there. In addition, the Ministry has submitted proposals that Norway ratify Convention No. 176 and accede to Recommendation No. 183 on safety and health in the mining industry, adopted at the June 1995 Labour Conference. Several employee and professional organisations have given their consultation opinions, which address in particular the issue of private employment services. Both the NHO, the General Organisation of Commerce and the Service Industry and the Association of Professional Agencies, as well as the Authorized Association, recommend that Convention No. 181 is ratified and changes are made to the Employment Act to allow private rental and provision of labour. Labour organisations with LO, YS and AF at the head are opposed to this. This view is shared by both the Ministry and the majority of the Committee. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers’ Party, the Christian People’s Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, points out that Norway cannot ratify the Convention under its current legislation and accede to the recommendation on private employment services. This majority points out that it passes through kgl. a separate sample has been appointed to assess the current Norwegian legislation for the provision and hire of labour. The Ministry will present its own case to the Stortinget after the report of this sample is available. The majority of the Committee therefore considers that it would be most natural to assess the principal and practical aspects of allowing private employment services and hiring out labour in the light of this sample’s report. The minority of the Committee, consisting of the Right and the Advance Party, considers that it can be opened up for private renting and the provision of labour, and indicates that these parties have previously proposed to amend the provisions of the Employment Act in line with this. In the view of the Workers' Party, what solutions for the dissemination of labour are chosen for the future must mean that the unemployed get to work quickly, which is in the Community's and public interest. The Committee has no comments on the other conventions and recommendations in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e173	SV agrees with the majority in this case, but we need to say that we have both principleal and practical counter-conceptions to a ratification of Convention No. 181 and Recommendation No. 188, and that we will come back to it when the matter comes to Stortinget. There appears to be a large majority to change the rules for hiring out and for private employment services. There is a great deal of pressure on it in a globalised labour market. However, it is important for us to maintain that it is both a public responsibility to disseminate, and that the dissemination must be comprehensive, so that those who are to provide work have broad contacts both on the labour market and on the employers' side. At the same time, we will state that we want to strengthen firm work as the normal form of addition, and see great disadvantages for employees by increasing the rental market, which ratification would bring. We will come back to it when the matter comes up in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e180	Several have not asked for the word. [[Fotation, see page 414]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e194	The government joins St.prp. No 74 for 1997-98 the Conventions and Recommendations adopted at the 84th International Maritime Labour Conference in Geneva 8. October 22, 1996. Convention No 178 and Recommendation No. 185 on the supervision of seafarers' working and living conditions provides for the supervision of seafarers' working and living conditions on ships above 500 gross tonnes. The Recommendation provides detailed guidance on how such supervision should be carried out. All hearing bodies, including the Norwegian ILO Committee, and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, recommend the ratification of Convention No. 178 and accession to Recommendation No. 185. Norwegian legislation and administrative practices are broadly in line with the provisions of the instruments. The Committee points out that the requirements of the Convention can be met by facilitating supervision under the International Safety Management Code – the ISM Code – in accordance with the requirements of the Convention. Convention No 179 and Recommendation No. 186 on the recruitment and employment of seafarers replaces Convention No. 9 of 1920. Convention No 179 assumes that public communication remains the general rule, but that it is opened for private communication after authorisation or any other form of official authorisation. No fees or charges are borne by seafarers. Ratification does not require any change in the Employment Act and its regulations. The Committee recommends the ratification of the Convention and the accession of the Recommendation. Convention No 180 and Recommendation No. 187 on shipowners, hours worked and crew is a revision of Convention No. 109, which has been ratified by Norway. The Convention has not entered into force. During the 1996 negotiations, the provision on minimum wages and salaries was withdrawn from Convention No. 180 and transferred to Recommendation No. 187, where it is provided for a minimum wage standard to which the parties may negotiate. As a leading maritime nation, Norway has been a driver of the living conditions, working conditions and safety of seafarers. For Norwegian maritime transport, it has also been essential that the industry enjoys a level playing field with its competitors in an international industry. The majority of the Committee, the representatives of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, as well as the representatives of the Right, have underlined this in their comments. I assume that the Government will take this into account, and the ongoing work in the EU countries with the drafting of directives and the ratification of Convention No. 180, in its efforts to implement the Convention into Norwegian law. Both the consultation opinions referred to in the proposal and the Committee's own hearings made it clear that everyone agreed to the Convention's intention and content – in line with the decision taken in Geneva in 1996. However, the Norwegian Shipowners’ Association considers it premature for Norwegian authorities to ratify ILO Convention No. 180 now. The proposition points to the implementation of the provisions of the STCW Convention, to which Norway is obliged. These were implemented in Norwegian law in June of this year, cf. Ot. pp. No 50 for 1997-98, Innst. O. No 63 for 1997-98 and Besl. O. No 64 for 1997-98. In a letter to the Committee dated 3 November, the Government has attached the letter to it. S. No 22 for 1998-99 — clarified that the Government is in favour of Norwegian ratification of the Convention. In its conclusion, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs states: ‘However, if the Grand Duchy considers it desirable to ratify the Convention now, the Government has no strong objection.’ The majority of the Committee supports the ratification of the Convention and the accession of the Recommendation. Protocol 1996 to the Convention on the Minimum Standards of Merchant Shipping 1976 requires that Convention No. 180 will be ratified. In line with the majority’s recommendation to ratify Convention No. 180, the same majority in favour of ratification of the 1996 Protocol to Convention No. 147. Convention No 164 on health protection and health care, since 1987, lays down requirements for measures for the protection of health and health care of seafarers. This Convention was last submitted to the Stortinget in St.meld. No 19 for 1988-89. It was not then recommended to be ratified because there were several uncertainties as to whether Norway satisfied the requirements of the Convention. All the statements state that as Norwegian legislation now appears to be broadly in line with the provisions of the Convention, Norwegian ratification would not have administrative or economic consequences. An overall committee recommends the ratification of ILO Convention No. 164. On this basis, I recommend the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e250	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e253	You had to listen carefully to what the rapporteur said, to see that what has actually happened in this case, is that the government has recommended that you do not ratify now, but that the government parties in Stortinget have opposed their own government in this matter. What I'm most concerned about is the consequences of any ratification now. Because the substance is that the content is good, but that there are problems with how to implement it in Norwegian legislation – i.e. the options available between working time and rest periods – it is interesting to know something about what the rapporteur actually thinks about the time perspective for ratification and implementation. What is the difference between the Right now voting against and following the Government, and the other parties voting in favour of ratification and voting against the Government's proposal, is therefore the question of whether to wait and see how the EU proposes to implement it, and what the EU countries are actually doing in terms of how to implement it. It is important not least for the short sea shipping along the Norwegian coast – there are competitive conditions in the North Sea basin, among others. This is a question of which. And then I would like to know directly from the case-rapporteur: what does the case-rapporteur think the government is going to do now? Do you have to wait until the EU has completed its directive? Do you have to wait and see what EU countries do? Or are you going to do the whole lawwork regardless of that? I think it is required that the majority give a clear answer to that, because it is very dubious to say what the rapporteur said now.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e260	As I said in my report, both the majority and the Right are concerned that there must be a level playing field. The majority have clearly expressed the expectations of the parties that they will take care of it. So to the question of what the government is going to do. The government has explained how it perceives the situation, by letter to the Committee dated 3 November, where the Minister of Local Affairs points out that a directive will now be adopted from the EU. We are aware that the Commission v/Commissioner Kinnock has recommended that EU countries now ratify. And it will be absolutely necessary for the Government to follow that process and coordinate its implementation of Norwegian legislation in relation to what is happening in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e267	The government has written in its letter that they still assume that ‘it would be most appropriate to wait, among other things. a. the proposal for an EU Directive before ratifying the Convention.’;» This is also a question of to what extent we can ratify and then wait and make the law changes over a long period of time. I would therefore like a very clear reply from the rapporteur: Does the Christian People's Party believe that the Government should wait until this EU directive is adopted within the EU before they come to the Stortinget on how to make the changes to the law in order to implement this convention into Norwegian law? It would have been okay to get a yes or no.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e274	Based on the information we have received in the Committee, we can expect that this work will go reasonably quickly in the European Union, and on that basis my answer, where I am then depreciated a clear yes or no, will be yes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e279	It is very gratifying from the point of view of the Workers' Party that the government parties in Stortinget support what has been the views of the Workers' Party throughout the proceedings, namely that Convention No. 180 must be able to be ratified and they also agree with this. I record that the centre parties then disagree with their own government, which recommends in the proposition that you do not agree with the ratification of Convention No. 180 now. It would have been interesting to get, in a very short form, some main features of why the case rapporteur sees it as most natural to go in for ratification now and thus ensure the majority to ratify Convention No. 180 – which, as I said, from our point of view is very joyful.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e286	The Government has clearly stated in both the proposition and in the letter of 3 November, to which it has been referred, that it wishes to ratify Convention No. 180. Convention No 180 is, as I said in my main post, a revision of a previous convention that Norway – unfortunately – was the only nation that ratified. As a shipping and shipping nation, Norway has a tradition of fighting not only for a level playing field but also for ensuring the working life, working time and safety of seafarers, and the Government Parties want Norway to ratify by ratifying Convention No. 180 shall continue to play a leading role as an international maritime nation in this field as well. This is the reason why we want to ratify now, and this happens in understanding and cooperation with the Government, cf. the letter of 3 November.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e291	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e294	I'm not going to stretch the hall with the story on this matter, but there's been some uncertainty about it, and that's perhaps what's now coming up a little bit in the debate. But on the SV side, it's always been clear that we want ratification. It is because we believe that there must now be a clear signal that we want to implement this in Norwegian law. We think it would be very unfortunate if Norway were now left as a sinking country and waiting for others to go ahead. I think we're going to keep the position in tight. The speed with which this is to be implemented has not been clearly stated. At least we have been willing from our side to give the Government, so that they can come back to Stortinget with a proposition when they see clear outlines of how they will implement this in Norwegian law. The most important thing for us now is to give clear political signals about the desire for ratification. As we have also read the Government's letter, which has come to the discussion of the matter, the Government has no objection to the Stortinget ratifying these conventions and recommendations already now. So the questions that relate to it, I think are pretty uninteresting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e302	I am pleased to record the Grand Council's wish to ratify and accede to the ILO Code, which was negotiated in 1996. There is complete agreement that Norway should ratify Convention No. 178 and No 179. There is also agreement to accede to Recommendation No. 185 and Nos 186. At the same time, there is also agreement to ratify Convention No. 164, which was negotiated at the 1997 Maritime Conference. The majority of the population is probably somewhat more impatient than the Government on the issue of ratification of Convention No. 180 and accession to Recommendation No 187. The same applies to the 1996 Protocol to Convention No. 147. The background to the Government's proposal to await the formal position of Convention No. 180 is due to the fact that the EU Commission is likely to draw up a Directive laying down detailed rules for the incorporation of the Convention into national law. This is because the Convention opens up different ways of regulating working and rest periods on board ships. Of course, when the majority of the Grand Duchy wants rapid ratification, we will start work on adapting our legislation to the Convention. The first step will be to convene a meeting of employees’ and employers’ organisations in the shipping industry. The parties will be invited to make proposals on how to do so in practice. We will then take a stand on the matter and promote a proposal for the Storting during 1999. From that time Norwegian legislation satisfies Convention No. 180, we will also be able to ratify the 1996 Protocol to Convention No. 147. If the EU Member States agree on the Directive during this process, this will be incorporated into the submission to the Storting. If the EU countries do not complete the work before we promote the issue of the Storting, the Government will perhaps come back to the matter in a new proposal based on what the EU had to lay down in a directive.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e313	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e316	I think the state council's statements were quite clarifying about how the proceedings are going to be. It seems to be quite different from what the rapporteur suggests, namely that if we now adopt the majority that will be adopted, the government has actually been ordered to come back quickly. If not, we can't ratify the convention, because we have to make the law changes before we ratify, we can't wait till later. So that means we get one piece of legislation in 1999 with one set of rules, and then we might have to wait one or two years. For reality – no matter how many no-people have now been on the platform, who believe that the EU is an efficient and rapid organisation – the EU spends some time on this, not least in view of the fact that this directive is likely to be incorporated into a treaty that has not yet been completed within the EU, namely the Treaty of Amsterdam. This means that first we get one legal treatment, and then we get an additional legal treatment to see if what we did for the first time satisfies what the EU has actually proposed. And since this is a matter of choice between rest and working time, and that choice has quite different consequences in terms of the competitive conditions for parts of Norwegian business, I am in fact a little surprised that the Government does not argue that it has now been stated by several that the Government really believes that what the Stortinget is doing is quite fine. That means saying no to the recommendation that the Government has actually made to the Storting, not ratification. I would like to ask for confirmation that what the Council of State now sees for itself is not to wait until an EU directive has been introduced before making the changes to the law, but perhaps to get into a two-front track, where first a choice is made independently and without knowing what our neighbouring countries are actually doing on the question of choice between rest and working time.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e323	As the proposition shows, we have considered it most appropriate to await the interpretation and solution that the European Union will choose, because we will also have to put it to the seventh and last. We can have different perceptions of how effective and fast the EU is working. Maybe there's something that Solberg and I disagree with, but that this could take time, I think we're just about to assess. That means that if the European Union chooses a different form from the one we choose, we could risk getting into the situation that Solberg's representative now describes. But, of course, we on the part of the Government want to keep ourselves as well informed as possible about how the process is going in the EU, and also to see if it is possible to get some clearer signals from the EU about what choices they are making. So it will also be involved in the work we do with both employers' and employees' organisations here in Norway. Then we are hoped that we will be able to get this done as much in parallel as possible with the process in the EU. In any case, the government is prepared to come back with a bill on changes in the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e328	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e331	Let's ignore Convention No. 180 and Recommendation No. 187, the Committee broadly agreed with the view on the ratification and accession of the instruments referred to in the proposal. The Committee's majority comments show that all parties, with the exception of the Right, support the ratification of Convention No. 180 and Recommendation No. 187. The Convention deals with provisions relating to the leaser, working time and crew of ships. With regard to the issue of rents, Norway points out that in us, it is a practice to leave this to the social partners. By ratification of Convention No. 180 decisions are taken to introduce self-regulation for working time and rest periods on board the commercial fleet. For a number of years, we have had such rules for workers on land, and these rules are among the most important in regulating workers' rights. They're also considered to be completely natural. The working party has notified that the lot will fully support the ratification of all ILO instruments promoted in the proposal. In the course of the process, the Workers' Party has been supported by the fact that government parties have also found themselves able to recommend this. Norway’s role as a maritime nation is significant. It is therefore of international interest which position Norway occupies in the question of the ratification of these ILO instruments. In the light of Norway’s position as a shipping nation, we should take the lead in establishing international rules that protect workers’ rights. Convention No 180 is a revision of Convention No. 109, which Norway has previously ratified. Unfortunately, Norway has not been affected by sufficient numbers of countries for the Convention to come into force. Since Convention No. 109 has already been ratified and implemented by Norway, it would be logical and sensible if we also agreed to the revision of this Convention. I'm glad that's the case, now that the government parties vote for ratification and thus ensure a solid majority for it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e346	Apparently, early in this debate, it was believed that this was largely a matter of discord. In many ways, the debate on whether this is the one in the vote is not related to the question of whether you want to ratify, but to the time when you want to ratify. It's because ratification of the ILO Convention is not necessarily just a ratification of the usual form where you sometimes point out your good intentions and say that you like it, but it also implies a commitment that, in order to be able to ratify at the same time, you have changed the law. When the majority say that they want a level playing field in the maritime industries, the prerequisite is to know what the conditions of competition actually are. And that's where the real question comes from: Will we at the time we have to decide on an implementation in the law, know what the actual conditions of competition will be? And do we have an opportunity to assess the choice between rest and working time in relation to what consequences it will have for parts of Norwegian shipping? So of course you can say that's okay, we can choose to implement rest time only, if we don't know anything. But it means, in practice, choosing one side of the plan, and maybe the others choose something else that could be a better welfare offer. If you have initially decided that there is a rest period you want to implement, it may not cause any problems. At least it's the industry's own assessment. If one chooses to implement working time at the present time, this means that for those shipping companies on the shores that compete with short-haul traffic and not least in the North Sea basin, reasonable cost changes will have to be made, as it will have to change the entire watch structure. That is the reality, and that is why I think it was a tidy run The government made up when they thought that we had to decide how we implemented this in Norwegian law while taking a stand for ratification. I think it is important that, in the light of Norway as a shipping nation, we should also be aware that it is not obvious that we are. It is no more obvious than that a majority in this magnificence had to make changes in Norwegian legislation, tax issues and the reimbursement system for seafarers in several individual cases in the previous period to ensure that we remain a shipping nation. That's why I think what's going on right now is a little strange, that when the government made such a clean run, you change it without knowing what the conditions of competition are. It's not because we want worse working conditions for Norwegian seafarers, but because we want Norwegian seafarers, that we think it's neat to deal with what competition conditions Norwegian shipping companies are going to have. We're still going to vote against. I think the posts of the Council of State were very elucidating compared to the fact that it is not possible to ratify and then wait for what the EU is doing. As I said, it is very unclear what pace the European Union has in this matter. According to the information we have, this, as I said, will be allowed under the Treaty of Amsterdam. The Amsterdam Treaty has not been able to provide for anything before likely in April, and at the pace of directives which, after all, are to enter the European Parliament and all the things that you have in order to have a democracy, including in the European Union, the usual procedure is from one to two years in order to adopt a directive. Then comes the question: how many countries are going to implement it, and at what rate are the countries that have been given the EU directive going to implement it? I am afraid The Storting today makes a wrong decision. We can, as a consequence of this, be left with a weakened Norwegian shipping industry if you now rush through a law that might resort to schemes that are going to be different from those that our neighbouring countries have. And as far as the Convention is concerned, I think it is very dangerous to take signals about how a directive is designed, as a sure signal of how the directive ends. In spite of all the Member States that are members of the EU, they actually decide and adopt the text of an EU directive, and they will take their interests into account in the ongoing process. Now I hope there won't be any negative consequences of what you do. I don't think we should necessarily exaggerate the significance, but there is a responsibility on those who are now taking part in this, also claiming that the choice between rest and working time in terms of implementation in Norwegian legislation will have a major impact on parts of Norwegian shipping.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e359	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e362	The representative, Solberg, said that there might be a risk of seeing too much trouble with this, and I think the Right is about to do it. After the hearings we have had, it is very difficult to understand that this would have such a negative impact on Norwegian shipping – even in the light of the positions I have seen that the Norwegian Shipowners' Federation has on the content of the Convention, it is difficult to understand. It is clear that such ratification is something other than changing an ex-post law and adapting to an EU system. This is a duty of international law that stands on its own — and there are questions of speed here. It is clear that we may later be forced to make some changes, but what is quite clearly in the cards now is that the EU is working on this matter according to the guidelines we have now been made aware of. Then it becomes important what kind of position Norway wants to take while this debate is going on. We are a major maritime nation and must have an interest in influencing as much as we can the debate that will also take place in the EU. Of course, EU countries will take a stand on this according to their interests, but nor can it be uninteresting for Norway as a nation to use the small impact we have on drawing this in a direction we actually want. Is it entirely uninteresting that Norway, through its legislation and its position on this ILO Convention, is trying to influence the working conditions of seafarers to the best possible extent?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e371	We do not think it is uninteresting to influence, and we are very pleased that members of the SV are so positive about the possibilities to influence and change the EU system. What is the problem is the timing of a choice between rest and working time regulations, and the only way we could influence it was to choose the working time regulation implemented in Norwegian legislation. And we have not taken a position on that yet, not until the matter comes to consideration as a matter of law. So the problem is that if it takes three – four years before our competitors ashore around the North Sea Basin do this, it means that parts of Norwegian shipping, which are already heavily pushed on the margins, will experience such tough times – not least when the bulk of the population has reduced the subsidy scheme for seafarers and a number of other things that have contributed to maintaining competitiveness – that I am afraid of the consequences, especially of the traffic in our neighbourhood. It will have a relatively large impact on individual shipping companies operating on so-called two-guard arrangements. It is clear that for most Norwegian tonnage this does not matter — most shipping companies do not have two watch regimes for small ships, but this applies to smaller ships on the West Coast. And for those of us who have seen part of the shipping companies struggling already today, it's giving them e.g. three to four years with completely different conditions of competition, until the Storting discovers that what they did was wrong, enough that some of them will not be able to operate in the future. What I think is to haresel both with Norwegian jobs and with District Norway, because this is a significant part of employment in the West.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e376	Right-wing warnings against ratification of ILO Convention No. 180. To the right, this is made particularly clear in the comments made by the lot in the suspension, where they warn of what they call ‘additional distortions in the conditions of competition’. Now, as several other speakers have pointed out, ILO Convention No. 180 is a revision of Convention No. 109, which the Stortinget debated on 7 February 1966. When the Convention was unanimously adopted, it was ratified. It is then interesting and tempting to ask the representative Solberg what she thinks is why the Right today is against revision of what they used to be for.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e382	I stress that what we are saying in the comments is that we are opposed to ratification before we know what the other countries are actually doing in terms of choices between rest and working time regulations, because it has a consequence over Norwegian legislation. I think it's really amazing that someone can ask why in 1966 we were involved in a unanimous decision of a ratification, and we believe today something else – for it has, after all, happened quite a lot since 1966 in shipping! You can check that when, for example. relate to the number of seafarers in Norway and to the competitiveness of other countries. We have experienced a dramatic fall in the number of seafarers from 1966 to today, among others. Because we have had — and that is a consequence of being a high-cost country with a good welfare offer — much higher wage costs and better welfare schemes than the countries with which we compete. It has been this change since 1966 that the Storting has decided – at least until the budget has been discussed – to have a subsidy scheme on the part of seafarers and that has led a majority of the Stortinget to decide to have its own tax system for shipping companies because we want to continue to be a maritime nation. That today's maritime situation is different than it was in 1966, I think everyone who's been with it knows. So the fact that today we have to take much stronger consideration of what our competitors are doing is vital to continue to be a maritime nation. The point is actually what choices you make when you come to the rest and working time issues. And I fully understand that it's the election, but I think in a way that when we make that election, we should have known as much as possible, and I think it's strange that you close your eyes from the majority to know as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e389	It is quite obvious that the representative of Solberg is right that a lot has happened since 1966 also in shipping. But what I am looking for is whether the rights of employees are something to be assessed when the competitive situation develops as it does. I would therefore like to ask the representative of Solberg to clarify whether she believes that, if the competitive situation in the shipping industry so warrants, one must consider changing the rights of employees on board the fleet today. Is that how the right one is to understand?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e394	It is not that we believe that we need to change the employee rights that exist. I want to point out what happened when we got the so-called tripartite cooperation in connection with the grant to seafarers, that the employees gave up some rights that they had negotiated, the shipowners put up a programme for training, and the state agreed to a grant. It now collapses because the majority want to remove this reimbursement scheme. In that situation, I find it difficult if the Stortinget on top of this is also going to contribute to working time regulation and regulatory changes that do not come as a requirement after negotiations on the boat or negotiations between the employee and employer side outside, but that is, as a requirement from the Stortinget to make changes to the laws that lead to that we have working time arrangements that lead to increased costs. It would have been better to have had confidence that the parties could negotiate the type of working time issues than that the Storting used the legal path to impose working time arrangements on employees that they have not actually negotiated or that have not been a requirement for employees in the negotiations so far.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e399	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e402	I'm supposed to be a little short. Having experienced the hearing in the Committee, I would say that there is no misgivings about the content of this Convention. And then I didn't think a ratification was something to wait for, not least when the government also said in its letter to the committee that if one of the Stortinges wanted to ratify the convention, we could do it. One can always discuss time, etc., but we should be aware that the seafarers also need regulated working time. They also need to have the ability to have relationships. So for our part, this wasn't a problem after the hearing we had, not least because the Swedish Shipowners' Association told us about it. All other matters such as: Right-wing talk about today, is not yet settled in Stortinget, there are negotiations going on also about the issues. We feel this was right and proper considering that Norwegian seafarers are now getting relationships, and that they can get it the way it is put up in this case. Therefore, the Progress Party supports the majority in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e407	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 414]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e420	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e541	Right has notice that they will vote against points 3 and 4. It's going to be over the points 1, 2 and 5.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-13.ana.ud633e552	So it's going to be over the points 3 and 4.
