ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-19.ana.ud86e23	The representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, who has been licensed, has taken the seat again. From the Joint Parliamentary Delegation to the EFTA and EEA meetings in Luxembourg, there is an application for the signature of the Chair of the Delegation, the Grand Representative Haakon Blankenborg. The application shall be submitted to the representatives of Carl I. Hagen, Morten Lund, Siri Frost Sterri and Haakon Blankenborg on 23 and 24 November. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: The following alternates will be invited to meet during the leave period: For Uppland County: Kjell Ivar FossnesFor Oslo: Sissel DagsletFor South Trondelag County: Bjørg Bruset and Michael MomyrMichael Momyr will be elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets Siri Frost Sterri.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-19.ana.ud86e62	: 49 Nordics are currently in place in Kosovo. They are part of the International Control Force to monitor the agreement concluded after the negotiations between United States Special Envoy Richard Holbrooke and President Slobodan Milosevic last month. The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSCE, is responsible for the operation, which is the largest in its history. During January, up to 2000 inspectors will be in place in Kosovo. 70 of these will be the North, including the Chief of Staff. Norway is responsible for establishing the Headquarters of the International Verification Force, KVM. The work is well under way. During these days, predominantly Norwegian-produced communication equipment is installed, in cooperation with the Defence and Telenor. Four airloads of telecommunications and computer equipment this week are flown in with the Defense Hercules aircraft. Additional two aeroplane loads will be delivered within a few days. The equipment shall be in place on 30 November and will mean that the KVM can take seriously the work. There is little doubt that the mission in Kosovo will be a main task for the forthcoming Norwegian Presidency of the OSCE. The verification strength will be significantly greater than all other OSCE missions combined. It will make major political, economic and practical demands not only for the OSCE, but also for the Presidency’s ability to direct and coordinate its activities. From the Norwegian side, we place decisive emphasis on the safety of personnel. It is prioritised by the OSCE itself, but at least as important is the agreement concluded with NATO on support during a possible evacuation. NATO has been given the responsibility to monitor the compliance of the parties with the agreement and a visible effort by NATO will reduce the risk to the OSCE personnel. The same will be true of the development of a good relationship between the OSCE and the population on both sides of the conflict. The KVM is also responsible for coordinating the efforts of a number of other international organisations. The EU becomes a heavy contributor, with observers on the ground and with humanitarian aid. A number of intergovernmental and private humanitarian organisations, including the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and several Norwegian relief organisations, will try to meet the most urgent needs of the civilian population. The concrete tasks will be many. The humanitarian effort for the civilian population is a vital task. The displaced must return to their homes. Basic human rights must be respected. Democratic elections will be closed in the next year, which will provide the basis for an extensive degree of autonomy for Kosovo. An ethnically balanced police force and representative institutions shall be established. The OSCE will also assist in this work. The failure of the OSCE could provide the basis for new negotiations between the Serbs and the Kosovar Albanians on a political solution to the conflict. It will also open up the participation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the OSCE. The government emphasises that the OSCE will contribute to a stable development not only in Kosovo but throughout Yugoslavia and the rest of the region. The participation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is therefore an objective. Long-term stabilisation measures are also needed in the areas around Kosovo. The OSCE is working on several initiatives. The creation of Albania’s Friends means that an instrument has now been given to strengthen efforts in this country. The Group is an informal forum under the joint direction of the EU and the OSCE. It shall bring together countries and organisations providing assistance to Albania. The aim is to coordinate assistance to the country and send a signal of broad international support for the reforms. The presence of the OSCE in Albania shall coordinate international efforts within the country. The decision to increase the Norwegian quota in UNPREDEP in Macedonia, i.e. the presence of the United Nations, from 45 to 160 people, must be seen in the same perspective. Strengthening the UN military presence in Macedonia will make a significant contribution to preventing the proliferation of the Kosovo conflict. This will support the positive development of Macedonia, which has so far avoided the worst consequences of the disintegration of former Yugoslavia. Let me put the OSCE mission in Kosovo in a wider context. Today's presentation takes place quite exactly nine years after the fall of the wall. The night between 9 and 10 November 1989, the border between the two parts of the postwar world literally crumbled up in the hands of the inhabitants of Berlin. Of course, television cameras that did not catch up on the historic November night were that the dissolution of oppressive regimes creates a political void that needs to be filled. While in western Germany an established democracy had to offer East Germany, this was not the case in the Balkans and in the former Soviet republics. Ancient ethnic, religious, cultural and social contradictions have again emerged and are threatening peace and security in Europe again today, 80 years after the end of World War I. It is the historical ring-fence of the power plant at the beginning of the 1900s that occupies a significant place in European security policy towards the end of the same century. Have we learned anything from the story? Yeah, let's hope so. The efforts for conflict prevention and crisis management are changing the security policy landscape in Europe. Preventive diplomacy is no longer reserved for major acts, although they still play central roles. It is a tissue of international organisations that operates this work in the future, based on past bitter experiences, where all Member States are guaranteed influence. In addition, we have learned that violations of individual freedoms and rights, lack of legal certainty, discrimination against ethnic, religious and social groups or economic injustice can have major international consequences, including for Norway. So today’s preventive diplomacy is addressed to individuals in a completely different way than before. International organisations connect local contacts with the victims and with the perpetrators. You try to facilitate people's people's cooperation. There is great effort to influence the population involved in a conflict of democratic values and attitudes. Summits between political and military leaders are no longer enough. It is far from the Versailles peace in 1918 or Yalta in 1945 to the lack of conflict resolution work under the auspices of the OSCE. The organisation's main preventive diplomacy takes place in the field, out among the people we want to help. The OSCE is therefore a particularly useful instrument for continuing its work on peace and security in today's Europe. The organisation has a wide range of members, it serves as a bridge to other institutions such as the UN, NATO and the EU, and it has a wide range of instruments for mediation and trust between individuals and social groups. The scope of the Kosovo operation means that we face a very major foreign policy challenge when we formally take over the OSCE Presidency on 1 January. Political, economic and humanitarian measures for civil reconstruction must be reconciled with one another. It's complicated work, and we need to have realistic expectations of what we can achieve in the short term. We also need to be prepared for other conflict situations to arise in the area of responsibility of the OSCE. I am therefore pleased that there is a broad political consensus that Norway should assume this responsibility. Leading the OSCE will undoubtedly require considerable resources. We shall direct efforts to design practical measures to deal with acute crises such as in Kosovo, take an active part on the ground in other potential or real conflict areas and continue efforts to consolidate the democratic reforms in Central and Eastern Europe. Through the Presidency, we become an important contributor to European security, and we will be able to show ourselves as a credible partner. Willing to take responsibility will, in my view, also lead to enhanced cooperation with our friends and allies. The Presidency gives us the opportunity to play a central role in the further development of the Euro-Atlantic security architecture. In the government’s view, it is very important that Norway sits centrally when discussing these issues, so that Norwegian needs and interests can also be met. The process is now entering a crucial stage. Responsibilities and tasks are allocated between different institutions and cooperation arrangements. The transformation of NATO, the enlargement of the alliance and the EU, the development of a flexible concept for integrated peace operations, such as in Bosnia and partly in Kosovo, will change the security policy landscape we have to deal with. It is therefore in our national interest to assume the Presidency and to contribute to shaping the solutions to today's major challenges in Europe. The new safety architecture must meet today’s, not yesterday’s, challenges. The OSCE has increasingly been able to meet the needs of no other organisations. In particular, long-term efforts to establish viable democratic societies provide the OSCE with a particular profile and role. The human dimension of European security, how political, economic, religious and cultural development affects the individual's life situation, is the mark of the OSCE. I will come back to this later in the presentation. Of course, OSCE cooperation has its weaknesses. The fact that all decisions must be made unanimously by a whole of 54 countries is referred to by many as perhaps the biggest hemshoe. It could mean that those who want the least decide the most. It may take time to arrive at decisions, although consensus in the OSCE context is understood to be the absence of objections rather than expressed consensus. On the other hand, decisions taken in the OSCE will have considerable political weight and legitimacy, precisely because all Member States have been given the opportunity to influence the outcome. Norway has worked actively to create an effective OSCE. We are one of the top contributors to the organisation's activities, in terms of both personnel and financial resources. It is in our own interest to contribute to the most effective use of these resources. It is also in our interest to meet the needs of Norwegian women and men working in the OSCE under some very difficult conditions. We must therefore ensure that the resources are proportionate to the level of ambition. I would like to stress the need for the OSCE to make a strict prioritisation of its tasks. We need to have a realistic starting point. Most conflicts have a long history. The solutions are often complicated and time consuming. Of course, what can be accomplished during the short period of a presidency year is limited. The strategy must be to build on the work done by the previous Presidency – continue to lay stones until the construction works are completed. It's important to be prepared for the unexpected. Most past presidencies have been confronted with the need for action in conflicts that have been difficult to predict. We do not know many of the questions that will be raised by the Norwegian Presidency today. The raging development of the Kosovo conflict is just the last example of this. On this basis, the Norwegian OSCE Presidency will have four main priorities. I see it as our first main task to exercise political leadership and to bring together the members of the OSCE on political and practical action in concrete situations. We must act as political initiator and consensus builder. A criterion for the success of the Presidency is our ability to balance pooling solutions against the need for rapid response in acute situations. This activity will take place in a cross-press between different interests. Stakeholders will often have national interests which mean that they are initially distant from each other. It makes bringing views together difficult and time consuming. The political burden on the Presidency can often become noticeable. In some cases, this would lead to less possibilities of asserting Norwegian views. But we will be at the centre of the management of conflict prevention and conflict resolution. It itself provides opportunities for Norwegian interests to be taken care of. Close contact with all parties is a prerequisite for success. Of course, it applies to those directly affected by a conflict, but it also applies to others. Relations with the United States, Russia, the United Nations, NATO, the EU and the former Yugoslavia Contact Group are of particular importance. I would also like to emphasise the contact with Germany and Finland, which will hold the Presidency of the EU during the Norwegian Presidency. Close cooperation with the other members of the OSCE Presidency Troika, Poland and probably Austria, will also be important. Our second main task as the OSCE Presidency will be to strengthen what is called the organisation's human dimension, that is. the work on human rights, democracy and the principles of the rule of law. Since work on the World Declaration of Human Rights in 1948, Norway has been among those who have strongly stressed that this is not a matter of internal affairs. A large part of our commitment in these areas next year will take place in the OSCE and in the UN Commission on Human Rights, where we will also be a member of the New Year's Eve. Both of these positions are useful tools and open up new opportunities to achieve concrete results in this work, not least in ensuring compliance with commitments entered into by different countries. The OSCE must be established as a community of values for the whole of Europe. The moral authority of the organisation in the design of the Euro-Atlantic security architecture must be underlined. Strengthening this aspect is, in my view, in line with the organisation that has always stood for, from the very beginning of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, KSSE, more than twenty years ago. Democracy, fundamental human rights and the safeguarding of the rule of law are at the core of the OSCE itself. Prioritisation is in line with Norwegian traditions and values and is central to the government's own policy. I would also like to stress that these so-called soft aspects of security contribute significantly to the stabilisation of new democracies in Central and Eastern Europe and also in the Balkans. Let me elaborate on this. The recent elections in Bosnia show that developments in a democratic direction continue. However, the international community continues to expect setbacks. It is therefore important that the exposure to Bosnia continues with full force. What has been achieved in the last three years must not be lost. While the emphasis to date has been on the winding-up of elections, I imagine that in the next year the efforts are partly pushed towards establishing stable political structures, including parties and stakeholder organisations, and a public administration in the pact with the demands of real democracy. Monitoring of human rights is also very important. Without the return of refugees and displaced persons, I doubt that Bosnia can achieve the objectives set in the Dayton Agreement. In Albania, since 1996, the OSCE has been committed to sustained efforts to stabilise policy developments and contribute to the implementation of reform processes. Developments in the autumn show that the country has a long way to go before the political and economic reforms are firmly established. But during the unrest in September, it turned out that the OSCE is playing a stabilising role. I will go so far as to claim that, without a continued active OSCE presence, we will face a long-term turmoil in Albania. In Croatia, the OSCE is now the main foreign player after the UN has completed its commitment to East Slavonia a month ago. There is still a lot of work to be done, especially with regard to the return of refugees and displaced persons. The OSCE delegation will play an important role in this, and the OSCE police force in East Slavonia, which was established when the UN withdrew, can, in my view, have a significant stabilising role. It should help convince the population that the OSCE will remain in the country until the remaining problems are resolved. The organisation also has extensive involvement and presence in the Caucasus and Central Asia. In the conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia on Nagorno-Karabakh, the OSCE has taken on a mediation role on behalf of the international community. The instrument for this is the so-called Minsk Group, where Norway has recently joined as a member. The peace process has long been in dire waters, but we can now see some promising features of development. The Minsk Group has put forward proposals to the parties that we hope can create a new movement. The situation in Chechnya is a particular challenge. The presence of the OSCE is currently a point of contact between the Chechen authorities and the international community, and the organisation provides humanitarian assistance. At the same time, the safety situation is unsatisfactory. The benefits of having a presence must always be seen in relation to the risks encountered by the personnel. The Chechnya Support Group was suspended three weeks ago, but is now on its way back again, after a thorough assessment of the situation. On the basis of these concrete examples, I would like to highlight the importance of the OSCE and the underlying institutions for the practical solution to the problem. Without the significant work they do in the field, it would not have been possible to achieve what we have done. Ensuring that the broadcasting teams and OSCE institutions can continue to function effectively will be at the heart of the Norwegian Presidency. We still need to focus on regions and countries where the OSCE principles have not yet been fully implemented, where the democratic structures and understanding of what democracy implies are weak. I would like to stress that this is not about introducing new obligations. The problem is rather the failure to implement the commitments already undertaken by the OSCE Member States. We must follow a two-part strategy in the work on the human dimension. Firstly, the OSCE must continue to provide technical assistance through missions and underlying institutions in order to build viable democracies in the proper sense of the word. Secondly, the actual breach of obligations has to be charged. The main forum for this is the annual implementation meeting on the human dimension in Warsaw, which reviews and comments on the implementation by Member States of their human rights obligations. Breaking these commitments is and should increasingly be a central theme within the framework of the OSCE Permanent Council in Vienna, which we have repeatedly addressed. At the same time, we know that democracy has poor living conditions if the root causes of public dissatisfaction are not attacked. On economic and social issues, the OSCE can complement and reinforce the activities of other forums such as the IMF, the World Bank, the UN Economic Commission for Europe and the EU. Geographically, the need for effort is most urgent in the Caucasus and Central Asia. The countries of this region have many common problems. These are societies with weak democratic structures, low economic growth and lack of reform, with poverty and unemployment, major environmental problems, lack of clean water and a significant potential for social, ethnic and especially religious tension. This is closely linked to long-term unresolved conflicts and the many refugees and internally displaced persons who have created these conflicts. As a Presidency, Norway will place great emphasis on interoperability with organisations such as the United Nations Development Programme – UNDP – UN High Commissioner for Refugees and the Council of Europe. We see the need for a review of how this cooperation can be strengthened with the organisations concerned, and will take the initiative of such a meeting during the Presidency period. The OSCE will soon have established permanent representations in all the Central Asian Republics and in the long term also in Armenia and Azerbaijan. These are the right priorities, given the potential conflicts facing the international community. From the Norwegian side, we have taken the initiative to develop a comprehensive strategy for addressing the challenges facing the OSCE in Central Asia. The aim of such a strategy is the best possible interoperability between all actors and the maximum use of the limited resources available. In addition, we will carefully assess the possibilities for increased Norwegian involvement in Central Asia and the Caucasus region. All member countries of the OSCE in this area have the status of developing countries according to OECD and DAC guidelines. The position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the 1998 budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs referred to the major social, economic and humanitarian problems of the ODA-approved countries of Central and Eastern Europe. The Committee agreed that measures to strengthen and consolidate democracy and humanitarian aid to these countries could be granted under the title of Peace, Reconciliation and Democracy. This shows that there is broad political support for increased involvement with Central Asia, which has been followed up in the proposal for next year's budget. We will consider further strengthening this work. It may be appropriate to provide assistance for environmental and resource management, an area in which we have good expertise. It would be natural to involve the Ministry of Environmental Protection in such a targeted effort. The experience of both the former Yugoslavia and the Caucasus shows that economic reform and humanitarian assistance are often not enough. Lack of recognition of minority linguistic, cultural and religious rights is a fundamental cause of regional tension. At the same time, there is no doubt that common European culture and values are crucial in removing the divides in our part of the world. The free movement of ideas, respect for the rights of others and unhindered contact between people must therefore lie at the heart of the OSCE's preventive diplomacy. Strengthening dialogue and cooperation on cultural and religious issues will, in my view, increase understanding and contact and contribute significantly to lower tension. This will be a central element in our work on the human dimension of the OSCE. Contact with the Council of Europe is particularly important in this context. The OSCE and the Council of Europe have partly overlapping responsibilities in terms of democracy and human rights, but at the same time there are also clear differences between the two organisations. The centre of gravity of the OSCE is linked to the prevention and reconstruction of post-conflict conflict, in particular through field work. The Council of Europe, for its part, is committed to long-term efforts to strengthen the protection of human rights and democratic governance of the Member States. The contact needs to be guided by concrete operational needs. From the Norwegian side, we have made a number of concrete proposals on how to strengthen practical cooperation between the two organisations. We need to avoid competition and duplication of work. In addition to the protection of human rights and the construction of democracy, I see strengthening the cultural and religious rights of minorities as a possible area of cooperation. I have agreed to discuss this in greater detail with my Icelandic colleague, who is the President-in-Office of the Council of Europe. This leads me to the third main task of the Norwegian OSCE Presidency, which will be working for increased international cooperation to achieve common goals. We want to strengthen the web of international organisations dealing with conflict prevention in Europe today, primarily the UN, NATO, the EU and the Council of Europe. I would like to emphasise that we are developing guidelines for practical cooperation, based on the comparative advantage of different organisations. In my view, cooperation in the former Yugoslavia shows the possibilities that exist. It's our ambition as chairman to take this process further on behalf of the OSCE. There are discussions in the OSCE on a European Security Pact, which will define the role of the organisation and cooperation with other institutions. The objective is to maximise the use of the global resources of the international community. The document shall be completed on schedule before the planned OSCE summit next year. However, I would like to stress that we need to take the time we need to achieve a satisfactory result. Our role will be to conduct negotiations on the Security Pact in the future and to reach consensus on the content of the document. However, Norwegian interests and priorities will also be underlined. The most important thing for us is to agree that the OSCE should continue as today, that the cooperation and contact between the institutions of the Euro-Atlantic security architecture must be further developed, and that the influence of small countries in the OSCE must not be cut. In my view, negotiations should lead to a conclusion that one of the main contributions of the OSCE is to remove non-military sources of conflict. During the discussions on the Security Pact, there has been a controversial issue of whether the OSCE should also be able to undertake military peacekeeping operations. As early as 1994, a decision of principle was taken to allow the organisation, where appropriate, to carry out a peacekeeping operation in the context of a peace agreement in Nagorno-Karabakh. Such an operation may remain topical, but the most widespread approach is enough that the role of the OSCE in military peacekeeping operations should be primarily as a mandater and as a contributor to integrated operations where others, for example. UN or NATO, contribute to the military component. However, it should not be excluded that the OSCE may exceptionally carry out peacekeeping operations with a military feature, in the absence of other alternatives. Nagorno-Karabakh could be an example of such an operation. On the other hand, I consider civilian police operations to be very important, in order to prevent conflict or rebuild conflict-affected societies. In my view, the take-over of police duties in eastern Slavonia carries out a new aspect of the OSCE activities that point forward. The presence of police is important not only as a anti-conflict remedy, to monitor human rights and prevent abuse, but also to transfer knowledge about how police forces operate in a democratic society. Without an effective police force, the rule of law cannot get a foothold. International cooperation on police tasks is something I think we will see more examples of in the future. This will give us opportunities for flexible ground conflict management. New tasks show that the OSCE is an organisation that adapts to new needs. It also shows the increasingly clear division of responsibilities between the United Nations and the OSCE on conflict prevention and crisis management in Europe, such as the United Nations. in Croatia. The OSCE agenda is already very comprehensive. In recent years, the organisation has been given more and more tasks in the field. Our fourth main task as President will be to continue the work of strengthening the organisation's ability to meet these tasks. The emphasis must be on operational needs. Measures have already been taken to improve the effectiveness of the Secretariat in Vienna, so that it will be more able to support the Chairman and the Broadcasting Laws. We want to continue this process. The Secretariat has today been very limited in comparison with other international organisations. Given the increased responsibilities, there may be a need to provide larger human resources. The work on the establishment of the verification team in Kosovo has underlined this need. There is also a need to strengthen the underlying institutions. If this does not happen, the capacity of the OSCE to prevent conflict and build viable democratic societies could be damaging. However, I would like to stress that strengthening the secretariat and the underlying institutions should not affect the leadership of the Presidency. This is what has made the organization what it is today. The Presidency must remain at the forefront of the OSCE, taking political initiatives and ensuring political consensus on the guidelines for practical work. It must have overall responsibility for the functioning of the organisation and for the need for coordination with other bodies and organisations. A task of great importance is to ensure the economic basis of the OSCE. The organisation has rightly been proud of its reputation as a slim and capable of reacting quickly. That reputation I want to preserve. But there is no doubt that the increased burden of responsibility puts the OSCE under a strong economic pressure. The overall objective must be that the financial capacity is proportionate to the tasks entrusted to it. The dependence on ad hoc funding has already been reduced. A specific contribution scale for major operations has been adopted. The same is true of Norway's proposal for a separate crisis management fund. The measures have shown their value in the context of the Kosovo operation. Work on providing the OSCE with a realistic economic basis needs to be continued. This means that all Member States must follow up policy decisions with the necessary resources. The strengthening of the OSCE also includes better recruitment and training. My goal is for the OSCE to develop a training programme for its own personnel. All Member States must ensure that the quality of personnel made available is satisfactory. It is also a shared responsibility to ensure that training and preparation are proportionate to the challenges facing personnel. In this I see great opportunities for cooperation with other organisations working on the same issues, such as: Council of Europe. Let me briefly sum up. The Norwegian Presidency’s priorities have one overall objective: to strengthen the OSCE as an actor in regional conflict resolution. The government's aim is to use the Presidency to further develop the OSCE as a tool for preventing diplomacy and crisis management. We will build on what is the organisation's special qualities. The OSCE has universal membership in this region. It has a recognised moral authority in respect of human rights and democratisation. It is flexible and has the ability to act quickly. It is cost-effective and has a presence in the conflict areas in question. The OSCE Minister of Foreign Affairs meeting in Oslo in 14 days indicates that responsibility for managing the organisation is gradually transferred from Poland to Norway. The meeting will have a broad agenda. The various regional crisis areas will, of course, be central. We will take advantage of the opportunity for a thorough review of the negotiations on a European Security Pact. The Polish Presidency shall submit a status report on this matter. It will provide us with the basis for formulating policy guidelines that can bring the process forward one step forward. Next year's presidency will no doubt be a heavy lifting. But I would like to stress that it is in our interest to do the job properly. The Presidency gives us the opportunity to take responsibility. We will sit in a central position and be listened to when vital issues relating to both Europe and our own security are discussed. We are given the opportunity to demonstrate that we are able to manage both an organisation with difficult tasks and to balance different concerns in order to design comprehensive policy and practical responses to concrete challenges. If we succeed, we will have shown that Norway is a reliable partner and ally. It will be in our national interest. In addition, we want to show what Norway stands for and what values we focus on. But not least, we will have contributed to increased stability and security in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-19.ana.ud86e209	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister's statement on the OSCE and Norway's OSCE Presidencies be submitted to a later meeting, and see it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-19.ana.ud86e218	There is no record available.
