ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e42	Representatives Asmund Kristoffersen, Dag Danielsen, Brother Yngve Rahm and Morten Lund, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Telemark County, Kari Lise Holmberg, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e73	Norway has received one of the most concentrated food markets in Europe. Today there are only about 200 stores with 1 pst. of turnover unrelated to the four chain groups. It shows calculations from ACnielsen Norway AS. Eleven years ago, almost 3,000 shops were independent. These had 29 pst. of the turnover. The daily retail trade dominated by four chains is 7-8 pst. of gross domestic product. Most of the products from the country's 80 000 farmers are traded here. 40000 in the food industry and transport of goods are in this value chain and well beyond 15 000 in the shops. All the Nordics are customers at these four chains. The chain memory is therefore an important factor in the power of society. The 1996 Fafo report entitled ‘Remedy against Industrial Powers’ states: ‘There is little doubt that there have been marked changes in power conditions in favour of the chains. Whether consumers have gained or lost power is more questionable». The power situation in the chain has changed in recent years by the centralisation of several decisions on product ranges, purchase conditions and purchasing agreements. The supplier industry is characterised by the encounter of four large buyers who increasingly want nationwide purchases and shorter time between each price negotiation. It is necessary to ask whether these few persons with such great power show a social responsibility similar to the power they have received. If the answer is no, it has to be discussed whether we have good enough legal regulations, and whether the ones we have are actively used enough. I am pleased that the Declaration of Adults signals that competition law should be assessed in order to prevent power being transferred from elected bodies to market players. I will be able to draw up a number of areas in which I believe the chain memory act today is used to counter or undermine political decisions. I'll be careful with seven areas. The first area concerns freedom of speech. It must be freedom of speech in Norway. In particular, there is a need for free debate on those who have the most power. In the last few weeks' debate on kedemics and food prices, we have seen that important actors have been attempted to gamble with threats that their goods may be thrown out of the store shelves. There are strikingly few debates from industrial companies and from their employees. There have been examples of shopclothes being punished by top management in the chain for participating in the debate. Neutral price control and price information are needed as a basis for a properly open debate, possibly also rules on the factual termination of supplies. The other area I want to highlight is the principle of free establishment in business. Restrictions on this right shall be determined by the authorities. It is hardly possible today to establish a grocery store in District Norway without connecting to one of the chains. In another area, the vegetable sector, each of the chains has its own wholesaler. These allow the chains to set individual farmers’ allowances and prices. New vegetable growers and those who do not want to accept the conditions laid down will be dependent on selling in the marketplace or in the infirmary – or on finding something else. The third area that I want to draw out is the housing pattern. There is a broad consensus in Stortinget that the housing pattern in Norway should be maintained. In order to achieve this, both private and public services must be maintained. In a study from Møreforsking, it was found that the local store was almost as important as the primary school to prevent people from moving from a building on the outskirts. The increasingly stringent requirements within the chain of quantum discounts, pack sizes and return systems have forced many shops to close. The number of shops has been reduced from 7,300 to 5000 in the last ten years. A large part of these closures have hit the last or second last store on site. So shop failures threaten the housing pattern, but they also eliminate effective competition in many regional and local markets. A fourth area is industrial policy. The small and small enterprises will be stimulated to contribute to value creation and housing throughout the country," says Stortinget. One of the chains is now aiming to reduce the number of suppliers from 250 to 100. Another will form part of a merger in which the head office is moved to Sweden. The switch to central purchasing in the chains and the use of fewer suppliers means that the smallest suppliers lose. They are the ones that Stortinget has wanted to give the most priority to its stimulation policy. A fifth area relates to the situation of workers. Employees shall be guaranteed safe conditions of addition. It is an objective of our legislative work in this area. Today, many jobs in the food industry are unsafe because businesses have short-term contracts and long-term economies. Employees fear an increase in the pressure on wages and other working conditions in the future. The demand for increased imports of raw materials will result in more processing in countries where wages are lower than in Norway. That way, we can lose jobs. A sixth important area is agricultural policy. Our agricultural policy is to ensure Norwegian food production of a certain extent, Norwegian usage structure and a good enough income for farmers. The criticism and pressure of the chains against border protection, commodity prices and cooperative organisations could lead to the failure to achieve the objectives adopted. Agricultural cooperation has been given important tasks for the implementation of the agricultural agreement. On the green side, the chains have in practice taken over the cooperative enterprise that we have had. The same can happen for other sectors in the next round. It's hardly farmers and consumers who make the most of this. The seventh, and last, area I want to highlight, concerns competition law and the situation there. Cooperation measures which prevent necessary free competition shall not be permitted. As the chains required to take over the distribution of goods from Nidar and Freia, the demand came from all the chains at the same time. And the agreements that were submitted for signing turned out to be completely identical. That was a practical example. The head of the Norwegian Federation of Food and Feed Workers, Torbjørn Dahl, says to the Newspaper on 30 October this year: «We have concrete suspicions of price cooperation between the four major chains...». Others have said the same. Nevertheless, the Competition Authority has not found examples of the use of market power that threatens free competition. I believe we have many signals that the powerful chains will increase their power at the expense of others in the future, among others. by gaining ever closer control of raw material production. We can have an internationalisation of the groceries market in a short time. The chain memory can then be used even more in a way that society is not served. Elections will then lose even more influence. In order to prevent such developments, the free public debate is crucial. Over the last few weeks, we've seen that all the debate has stopped at disagreements about numbers. The debate must not stop when someone is suspected of hiding facts about their own gains. So we need better and neutral facts about prices. I therefore think it is very positive that the Minister of Agriculture has now signalled that the Government will launch such a price follow-up as was called for in the proposal of Solvency Sollie, Eilef A. Meland and myself in 1996. At the time, the proposal was defeated on the grounds that the Competition Authority is doing a good job. The peasant team has long called for such a price follow-up. Trade organisations are now also required. It is therefore clear that no one is satisfied with what is currently available on the basis of facts about the price evolution of food throughout the whole chain from land to table. And that's spectacular. Over the years, many researchers have traveled around with shopping carts and received their expenses paid by taxpayers. Now a proper arrangement is needed by an agency independent of the many who have drawn their conclusions in advance. It is important that the price facts collected also provide information to consumers, for example: where the goods are cheapest, so that they can use the power they have in theory. To quote again from that Fafo report: ‘The consumer has great potential power, but is outrageous without information and organisation.’ Yes, what influence do consumers have on the opinions of the Director of the Consumer Council, where his only claim is ‘as cheap as possible’? I want primarily for development to be controlled through transparency, free debate and by the fact that actors with a lot of power are showing social responsibility within the political objectives of the Stortinget. But we're not allowed to be naive. I think it's the same in this field as in other people in society, that there is a need for active control over compliance with laws and regulations. I believe that the Competition Authority does not exercise such active and strict control over the food chain. With so few and powerful actors, it's blue-eyed to ignore that these talk together and help each other to earn even more. The Authority answers any critical question about this industry by referring to the obligation to notify when cooperation agreements are concluded. As if one were to be content with such a mandatory obligation to report other criminal offences in society, for example. drunken driving and theft? I would think that the statistics would have improved significantly, while the number of offences would have increased sharply. I want to express with this interpellation a concern that many people feel, not least those who work in the primary industry, in the food industry and in the shops. Significant increased attention is needed on the effects of the changes in the power conditions in the marketing of foodstuffs. A follow-up is in line with the value foundation on which the Adult Declaration is based.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e129	Initially, I would like to point out that the issues raised by the representative Morten Lund affect the responsibilities of several government councils. However, competition policy in particular requires a solution. I will therefore concentrate mainly on the competition policy towards industry and the food chain in the answer. A complementary element of the Government’s strategy in this area is, inter alia, the following: marketing laws. I would also like to start by saying a little about the reality description given by the representative Lund in his question. When the interpellant is talking about a market share of 98 pst, it can be seen that there is one operator that has such a market share. There is reason to recall that there are four actors, and I think there is also a basis to assume that there is a reasonable degree of competition between them. The development of the daily food industry was assessed in the Government’s Enterprise Communication in the spring session this year. It was concluded that integrating the retail sector and the use of IT has led to the exploitation of economies of scale at all stages of the distribution chain, in order to improve the efficiency of the retail trade and the food industry. At the same time, a market as concentrated as the food market represents a major challenge for competition authorities. As long as competition operates reasonably effectively, the current concentration itself should not be an unmanageable problem. Concentration on the purchasing side has affected the power relationships between industry and retail in the favour of the latter. This has given more balance between the seller and the purchaser in wholesale markets than before. In addition, a number of research and investigation reports have found that lower prices have benefited consumers. I perceive part of the question to the representative Lund that concerns the discussion that has taken place between Stein Erik Hagen, the Norwegian Farmers' Association and the agricultural cooperative on the prices of food and Rimi's product range. The fact that there is a debate of this kind in the media, I can't see is a matter for the government, because we can't be accused of wanting to stop the free debate. The Minister of Agriculture has taken the initiative of a pilot project to identify the possibility of setting up ongoing reporting of results on prices in the food market, including comparisons with other countries. For me, as Minister of competition, the biggest challenge in the field of retail trade is to ensure that competition in the groceries market continues and, if possible, strengthens. This is about preventing further concentration in the market and avoiding the emergence of strong barriers to establishment. Competition policy has as its general objective the promotion of the efficient use of society’s resources through effective competition. Combating abuse of market power is an important part of this work. The instruments of the Competition Act consist of prohibitions, injunctions and provisions of intervention. It is the Competition Authority that supervises the markets and uses the instruments in the first place. The prohibitions relate to price cooperation, market sharing and similar forms of cooperation. Furthermore, competition supervision may interfere with terms, agreements and practices if the supervision finds that they contribute to the restriction of competition contrary to the objectives of the law. In this context, there may be grounds for stressing that these intervention provisions may also be used against purchasers’ powers if they are exploited in a way that damages competition. Furthermore, the Competition Authority may intervene against corporate services and mergers. The Competition Act also provides for price labelling. In order for competition to work, we depend on price-conscious consumers. If we as consumers want to have lower prices, it is not only useful to trust that others will facilitate the situation. We must actively seek out the best offers. The director of the Consumer Council reminded us of this in an interview with the newspaper Our Country recently. Competition supervision has strong supervisory powers linked to the enforcement of the Competition Act. Let there be no doubt that these instruments will be used where the need arises. Violation of the Competition Act is punishable by fines. It can also be sentenced to imprisonment. In summary, competition policy should facilitate effective competition. However, it also has its limitations. The Competition Act lays down certain frameworks for the conduct of undertakings and allows competition authorities to intervene against restrictions of competition in industry. In addition to this, we have limited opportunities to create competition. Competition must be created in the market by players who have to compete. Retail trade is now organised through purchasing and sales chains. Within the sales chain there are several store concepts. Some have a limited range of products, others on a wider range. Of course, in relation to the narrow range shops, a question arises as to which goods are to be sold in the shops. This is actively exploited by purchasers to squeeze prices. In order to be able to fit into this type of business, suppliers have to compete at price. Not everyone can fit in with their entire range in such sales channels. The chains are nationwide. There will then be a pressure on the suppliers to offer nationwide delivery. We have seen examples of smaller enterprises merging into different schemes to achieve this. It contributes to the restructuring of the supplier side, which sometimes also has consequences in different local labour markets. Such effects are, in my view, a consequence that must be taken into account when the efficiency is improved by exploiting economies of scale. At the same time, there is a problem if such small but competitive suppliers are not allowed into the shelves of the chains. There are currently two possibilities for smaller food businesses to enter the retail trade either to build their own brands or to invest in the production of their own brands. We can also see examples of such enterprises being able to operate in the service market and in the wholesale supply market. I would like to say a little more about the work of competition authorities in the food sector in particular. Competition supervision has been a priority in this sector for many years. One has accepted significant concentration in the chains, so that they have become powerful units as long as this has contributed to the inter-chain competition. Chain formation has also led to active pressure on the food industry. Competition between chains requires them to develop their logistics systems as well as their own pricing strategy. This is a positive development in relation to past times when industry significantly influenced pricing in all shops through indicative prices, without further assessing the costs of individual distribution stages. The Government has kept the Stortinget informed about the development of the daily food industry through the budget proposals of the competition authorities. This sector is further mentioned in the Enterprise Policy Communication, in national budgets and in agricultural policy proposals. In the Ministry's annual main instructions to the Competition Authority, the letter of award, the supervision of the industry is explicitly highlighted. The Ministry has also taken the initiative for several research projects on the industry. This year we have had three ongoing projects on vertical integration, respectively, on how access to commercial property affects the competitive conditions of the retail trade and on the competitive effects of the introduction of so-called private brands in the chains. Competition supervision has imposed a specific notification obligation on the daily food industry. The reporting obligation is imposed on the four chains Hakon-Gruppen, Retangruppen, Norgesgruppen and NKL and wholesaler Joh. Johannson. Agreements between the main chains and agreements between wholesalers and retailers which create barriers to establishment pose potential threats to effective competition. In the relationship between wholesalers and retailers, it is agreed that the wholesaler restricts its activities to other buyers for which it is important to obtain information. The food industry has characteristics that allow buyer power to arise in the intermediate stages because primary production takes place in small units. The response of the market has traditionally been the organisation of farmers and fishermen in cooperatives. The cooperatives were exempted from the rules on the prohibition of price cooperation under the previous price law and the exemption was continued under the Competition Act. In this response to the interpellation, I have focused on the tools that the Government has through legislation, based on the interpellant's wish for an explanation of the Government's strategy. I believe that today, in general, we have the tools we need to deal with the issues that have been raised. This strategy is briefly summarised in terms of the active use of the instruments in the Competition Act and related market legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e178	I'm going to thank the Council of State for the answer and for drawing out some important points around the same thing that was also my theme. It was part of the issues that I wanted to have discussed, which was not so much illuminated, but I expect that we can come back to a little later in the debate. There is no doubt that consumer prices in the country have evolved favourably in recent years. My question is whether they have had a positive enough development in relation to price developments, for example. on raw materials. In some studies, there is a question mark about it, and that is of the things that we can get explained by the price surveys that I understand that there is now full agreement that we are going to get, a price check that will go on the development over a series of years, where one is going to try to follow in the margins within the individual paragraphs. With regard to the decreases in prices that we have recorded, it is clear that those gains are paid not only by the actors in this area but also to a certain extent by consumers, for example. that they get an increased share of the transport work by getting more to the shops for too many, and then there are other societal considerations that I pointed to some of, that may have been lost at this time. Just to illustrate the situation as it is, I can draw out some practical examples from my own presence. My local store where I live was closed last summer, based on the considerations I mentioned. In the neighbouring municipality, a bakery with seven employees who have been in service for many years was closed because the bread had become a bit too expensive. A potato case that had been allowed to deliver to the local stores and had enough with it, was no longer delivered to the local stores, and I think neither the customers nor the employees there served. A new company supported by the public to produce mushrooms simply did not enter the market even though its prices were lower than the prices of the mushrooms imported from Sweden. And in Trondheim we have two breweries that now have to cancel 150 employees because of what's happening. This is just an emphasis on what I've said, as I think one has to follow it up. The examples I have mentioned have major implications for regional policy. It is good that research is being done, and research has been done before, but what is the practical result in that it is being followed more closely? I think it's nice that a letter is written to the Competition Authority stressing the task they have of law and such things, but I think they could have followed more, because we haven't yet seen practical examples of those who run these chains being called on the carpet, and I put a question mark on why it hasn't happened if the control is so careful.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e191	The representative, Lund, raised in his speech mainly questions about the concentration at the retail level in the daily food industry. I find reason to stress that there has also been a strong concentration on the industrial side for a long time. This may stimulate purchasers to organise strong purchasing organisations. It may also lead to a difficult situation for small food businesses between large producers and large purchasers. In the dairy industry, the dominant operator has the vast majority of the market for fresh milk and market shares above 85 pst. for white cheese and brown cheese. In the meat industry, the dominant operator has a particularly high market share for slaughter but less for processed products. There is also a high concentration in the flour and baking industry. My point is that we need to see the conditions in the industry and the daily food trade in the context. The aim must be to improve the efficiency of the entire daily food industry, and it must benefit consumers. Let me correct the interpellant at one point. This applies to the obligation to notify. Competition supervision has imposed a notification obligation on the retail trade. He asked whether he should not be careful about imposing a duty to report other criminal offences, implicitly as one has done in the field of competition. I would like to make it clear that the obligation to notify does not relate to criminal offences, but to matters against which the Competition Authority may intervene if the supervision finds that the situation is detrimental to competition. The interpellant is dissatisfied that the Competition Surveillance Authority allegedly refers to the specific notification obligation for the retail trade in response to any critical question. The obligation to notify is useful in relation to legal acts that a person will consider to intervene in compliance with the Competition Act. In the case of acts prohibited by the Competition Act, for example: price cooperation, where appropriate, will take place in hidden areas and it may be difficult to detect. In this respect, the Competition Authority must use control methods such as evidence protection and similar related to possible criminal offences, which, of course, does not take place after prior notice in the media. I would also like to stress that those who believe that they are aware of any illegalities should report this to the Competition Authority, which could then pursue the case. Making sure that the competition works is a responsibility that I have assumed as the Council of State, and that I will do my best to get. This task is about protecting competition, not competitors. Effective competition will, in the long term, offer the lowest possible price to consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e204	This debate has been promoted from time to time, and the debate is really about whether or not you trust the law that the Competition Authority has been set to enforce and whether or not it is good enough. I ask myself the following question: Will Morten Lund have competition, and if so, what kind of competition? The so-called low-price shops are in strong growth and are now a major part of the market. I would like to say that I welcome the results of competition in the grocery market so far. Chain formations have led to stronger competition in a food market with a significant concentration on the producer side. This has given lower prices. The Labour Party also sees that too much power and monopoly states from chains both in terms of producer and retail are worrying, but at the same time we believe that it is the task of the Competition Authority to monitor this. Without the interpellation, I have a feeling that this debate has come on the basis of the discussions between Rimi-Hagen and the agricultural organisations. That is why I also have a feeling that consumer concerns are more than a sincere desire to expand the consumer's offer. Questions can be asked about the approximate monopoly situation, for example: Dairy co-operation is in the best interests of consumers. The competition from Synnove Find has not exactly been applauded by the agricultural organisations, and I don't think Morten Lund in this interpellation debate will talk Synnove Find's case as to the level playing field and consumer demand for her products. If it is the case that Morten Lund believes that competition law and the Competition Authority are not functioning according to the intention, then my advice will be to contact its own government so that any distortion can be corrected by a change in the law of the Stortinget or by the provision of financial resources to the Competition Authority. To date, the central government’s response has been the budget cut and the centralisation of the Competition Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e215	We have had a debate this autumn about who contributes to lower food prices for the population. What players in the food market are in fact contributing? Are farmers, cooperatives, food chains or others providing more affordable agricultural products to consumers? A number of claims and different evidence have been made from different teams, hoping to prove who is in the value chain that is well paid. This has contributed to a very unyielding debate, which confuses consumers to the greatest extent. So to the Council of State opinions here today on how important it is to contribute to the best and more competition for consumers. But then the Government distinguishes itself in terms of word and action. Because I remember the meat cutter company Yggeseth, where the Council of State tried a decision in the Competition Authority and the Government clearly opposed increasing competition in the food market, but took so-called district policy considerations. I hope that the Council of State in its summary today can come a little closer to whether there is a line that the sitting government intends to continue with. In that case, it would be an interesting signal for the other parties represented in this hall. The interest in Norwegian food prices is increasing in the population. There is therefore a need to obtain a picture of the price formation of Norwegian agricultural products and the possibility of making them competitive. The Progress Party has therefore promoted a Document No. 8 proposals for a wide-ranging government-designated sample to explore the whole value chain in the food market in order to provide an overview of the price conditions and opportunities for more reasonable agricultural products. Such a thorough study of the entire value chain will have considerable credibility and will go far beyond the work that the Government is now putting up with. The results can provide important information to the Storting and serve as a basis for decision-making in order to increase the possibilities for lower food prices. It is important and essential that such an investigation can provide answers to the extent to which the price of the consumer represents the different parts of the value chain, which parts of the value chain are more expensive in Norway than in other countries, as well as the competitiveness of the products compared to similar products in other countries. By analysing and mapping the margins at the different stages of the food chain, valuable information will be provided. According to the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research, relatively little work has been done in this field. We are now following up that Norwegian consumers will know where credibility lies. This can be an important part of the fight for lower food prices for Kari and Ola.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e226	I will give tribute to the representative Morten Lund for bringing the debate on the increased market power of the food chains into the Storting. Now I may seem to notice some caution from some to use words as market power in this situation, but no one can today doubt that the large food chains, despite the competition that may be between them, represent a significant factor in power. The influence this implies, contributes to directing the pattern of action both to consumers and to producers of goods, and when, in addition, today we have strong indications that the increase in the value of the groceries market largely ends up in the large chains, there is every reason to go further into the seams. The trend towards ever-increasing concentrations in the chain, as the Council of State also points out, has taken place with the blessing of the authorities. This has been considered positive as long as there has been competition between the chains. In addition, they have also wanted to counterbalance the dominance of the food industry, but the authorities do not appear to have been equally concerned with the serious structural consequences of these developments. It's been a natural focus on price formation. The interpellant has pointed to a number of consequences of the market power of the food chain. There is no doubt that this has contributed to the emergence of a large number of urban purchasing centres, to the commercial leakage from districts, pressure on traffic patterns and the environment, and has had consequences for the production and processing apparatus. These chains play a crucial role in the development of this area as well. By means of different mechanisms, the chains provide for control of the market power of manufacturers and many are today forced to give up, which has also been pointed out by the inter-pellant. There are examples of small enterprises that have wanted to specialise in a product that sells well in a narrow area but have been prevented from expanding their market territory. There is no doubt that such specialisation would have been good for the company. For consumers, such an extension could also lead to lower prices. I think we can agree that the authorities have not had sufficient knowledge of either these mechanisms or resources to deploy to steer development. It is therefore commendable that the Government of the Minister of Labour and Administration as well as the Minister of Agriculture has now taken the initiative of studies and research to identify different aspects of this major problem complex. We have reason to wait with excitement for the results of these studies, and not least for how they are used in order to achieve healthier conditions in the daily food market.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e237	Since the starting point seems to be also a consideration for the customers, I think we have to put this into a slightly larger context than what I have the impression that the interpellant is willing to do. I think we have to look at the law of agriculture. We need to look at how the support schemes in the agricultural sector work. We need to look at how the charging system works and how it contributes in terms of prices. We have to look at the formation of fees – the fee for fuel and mineral oil, which ultimately has to be paid by the consumer. We have to look at investment taxes, tax schemes, employers' taxes, import taxes on equipment for the agricultural industry, etc. Yes, VAT has also been introduced into this context. And we have to look at how the working environment rules work. I agree with those who believe that there is a strong need to conduct a price survey. I hope the Council of State will support the initiative taken by HSH to carry out a study on how all stages in the chain, from so-called soil to table, work, where the margins seem to be remaining, and where the effectiveness seems to be greatest or least. I hope the department is willing to support such an investigation. It would be totally worthless to initiate a study that does not cover all stages of the chain. Of course, the right-hand side is the starting point that we're opposed to any power concentration. We support any contribution to competition. But it's a contribution to misrepresenting this debate, like, among other things. The rural community is in the process of doing so, when it is rather allowed to become a debate on one of the actors in the food chain rather than a debate on how prices and mechanisms in agriculture and in the food chain function. We have had a tough competition in the daily food industry, which has helped to stabilise and dampen prices. We have examples of prices being the same all over the country. We can't just see the disadvantages. But the prerequisite must be that we also look at the production and supplier stages, which are now dominated by the cooperative movement, which are characterised by market regulation, and which are not assessed in the same way as we see that the last paragraph is exposed to. My point is that we should have such a price control that I hope will come, this must be done as soon as possible. And the study that I mentioned must not take account of just the coming agricultural settlement. No, if this study is to have some value that benefits the consumer, it must also be in place in connection with the forthcoming farm notification, which I hope we will receive in spring 1999. It should not be delayed more than it has already been done.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e250	It's an important theme we're discussing here. It is a topic that should be covered by free public debate and openness, where no one should suffer as a result. Prices of food remain in this discussion. Who's going to lose the prize? Is that the store, or is it the farmer? The price difference between Norway and neighbouring countries on food is too large, it is claimed. Then it is important to be aware that the food budget is now 12-13 pst. of total expenditure on consumption, against approx. 40 pst. of 1958. So in comparison, we use 20 pst. for travel and transport. We need to be aware that the mass consumer society has created an enormous freedom of choice that was not found 20 years ago. So far, we have had a clear turnover here in the country of groceries. However, we are aware that this can change rapidly if some of the large trade chains move to purchase fresh food from abroad. We can get a strong change in the purchase pattern for the groceries we buy in the store. The liberalisation of legislation and customs tariffs can lead to a rapid increase in imports. Common consumer policy is largely based on consumer rights. Now this policy can become too simple and perhaps also unwise. It may now be time to see this in a larger context, such as: relative to food safety. In these days, when the veterinary agreement is on the agenda, we know how important it is to facilitate a policy that protects us from the level of infection that exists in the food chain in different EU countries. This is our responsibility here. Consumers in Norway are simply busy buying pure food, free of infection and additives. Therefore, consumers care whether the four major players in the retail trade take their goods away. It is important that the Norwegian consumer is given knowledge of what is really happening in the food sector and that all of the results of the conversions are made visible. Then I think about everything from what is paid to the wholesaler and the producer, until each of the groceries is purchased. Otherwise it looks like it's the big food chains that are the winners in today's media world. In addition, the leaders of the large food chains will usually have disclaimed state-owned children's wives. They will look to choice, market power and free competition. But that's not what consumers are best at.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e269	The issue of power in society should always call for the attention of the Biggest. The left is concerned with the balance of power and the spread of power. It is essential for democracy and for the general health of society. This also applies to power within economic life. There must be a balance between producers, intermediaries, retailers and consumers that make the whole function and that the interests of some may not harm others. The development of the retail trade involves some disturbing features and is perhaps the most visible concentration of power we have seen in recent years. However, it is difficult to say that it has gone too far, as there are four chains that you must assume have a real competition. However, as the Council of State had in mind, we have seen that small providers in the districts have difficulties in reaching markets despite the fact that they have product that is being asked for and that the shops will lead. We have examples of small enterprises in local communities that are business-economic good, that produce a good that the customer wants and that the store wants to sell, but that the shops are not allowed to include in their product range because of concluded chain contracts with competing producers. This can lead to an unfortunate development and a related consequence is the centralisation of enterprises and the change in the pattern of residence. There is something to think about when a company is put down, jobs disappear. Disappearing from the workplace, people have to move. If people move, the customer base weakens, and the store disappears, the community weakens and in some cases dissolves. This is a bad circle, and in sum and over time too strong ties to individual suppliers in the chains will be centralizing. In addition, when skepticism is expressed to such a strong concentration of power that we are witnessing in the food chain, both from local political authorities, from the trade movement, from organisations and, last but not least, from the Consumer Council, there is reason to take the situation seriously. The chain's requirements for nationwide agreements can, in the worst case, contribute to the unfortunate centralisation of production, as I have mentioned. That's why it's important that there's a focus on these things. However, there may be a dilemma and possible intervention by the authorities in such cases. I agree with the Council of State that one has to use the instruments it has through competition law, where the main thing is to prevent abuse of market power.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e285	At my discretion, the interpellant from the Centre Party is primarily concerned with protecting the monopoly position of the peasant organisations. It has become so that everything that can challenge and rock the monopoly position of Norwegian farmers and agricultural organisations in Norway, to the best of its ability, is combated by an overall agricultural cooperative and their organisations. When, in my view, the producer cooperative of the agricultural monopoly is now challenged by the powerful food chains, it is only healthy. However, I would add that, for the sake of free competition, today's four large food chains are an absolute minimum of actors in the small Norwegian food market. It is a political task to design legislation and control that can prevent the large food chains from achieving some sort of monopoly position at the point of sale. The interpellant wants, as I understand, the intervention of the authorities to weaken the power position of the four main actors in the food market at the expense of the cooperatives. However, the fact that there are four food chains that, after all, compete hard between customers gives less cause for concern, while the fact that farmers and their agricultural cooperatives have a purely monopoly on the food production side without any form of competition is much more worrying, and that is perhaps the main cause of the high Norwegian food prices. While competition operates between actors in the daily food industry, it does not, however, operate in Norwegian agriculture, which is a subsidised and sheltered activity. If the intention is cheaper food for consumers, there is a high potential to challenge Norwegian agriculture, among others. by opening up increased imports of food from abroad. Consumers will therefore only lose sight of the need for authorities to cut the food chains if this is motivated by the intention to prevent food chains from in any way challenging the monopoly position of agricultural cooperatives. The Norwegian agricultural cooperation is, as I said, in time to challenge. This is precisely what these food chains now have a certain opportunity, and that possibility must be maintained without intervention from the narrow political special interests which do not serve the consumer's cause at all. The interpellant also expresses scepticism for the concentration of power in the food chain, but as I said, I am far more concerned about the absolute concentration of power that exists in the organisations and the cooperatives of the Norwegian farmers. The conclusion is that if we want lower food prices, it is on the production and distribution side that we need to worry about lack of competition and not at all on the sales side. Therefore, an important political task is to design and manage legislation that ensures free competition in as many areas of society as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e298	One always listens with interest when centre parties start talking about the importance of not having concentration and having free and effective competition. Unfortunately, I think that the interpellant’s posts were quite marked by the fact that there is not really competition or the low prices that are the main point, but other issues that are not currently part of what is the purpose of competition law in Norway. It's too much concentration in the groceries market if you look at it as a percentage. It is a problem that has also addressed the Right. Five years ago, we wrote a letter to the Minister of Administration at the time asking how the situation was assessed and to what extent competition authorities took into account and looked at this question. We were informed that the Competition Authority looked at the question and had assessed it, but that it considered that the concentration and development in the daily food industry were characterised by competition between the four large entities and that it therefore contributed to the main objective of the Competition Act, namely to obtain lower prices through effective competition. If it is that the concentration has now grown to such an extent that it no longer gives lower prices to consumers, it is of course a warning that we need to look at the extent to which the concentration has become so large that we actually also exercise market power. However, it is a paradox, as several have mentioned, that this will have given market power to one type of organisation through the legislation adopted in the field of competition, namely by exempting the cooperative organisations in the primary industries from the main regulations. It is, of course, difficult to achieve effective competition in the main areas where Norway has higher prices, because the agricultural and fisheries organisations are excluded and in these areas it has a negotiated economy in the first place and does not use competition law. Perhaps competition law should be used more strongly in both areas. I have a comment on a question raised by several, whether or not more account should be taken of structural changes, such as changes. in the supplier situation and the changes related to the decrease in the number of grocery stores over the years, and to the need to consider other principles of competition regulation. If you go through this and look at what has been done after we have had fewer grocery stores in Norway, you will see that it is not the concentration of market power in the daily food industry, but above all the change in the lifestyle of each individual consumer that is important. There are differences between home-working women or mothers who trade three times during the day in the local store, and households where one trades once a week, use a car and come out with ten bags from the shopping centre, simply because of the time factor. We must not forget that consumers too have changed their daily lives, which means that our whole pattern of action is changing.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e316	I thank you for participating in the debate. I hope it continues here too. I want to have a debate not only on the price development of food, but also on the societal impact of power concentration in the food industry. Among other things, I have point to areas where competition is completely lacking because there is one or no store left. I want competition in this area as otherwise – it should just be missing. But I don't want a competition where only the strongest wins, but the result of free competition will benefit society. I'm at those degrees concerned with consumer concerns. That is why, in the last period, I raised questions as to why a price reduction of NOK 3 billion on agricultural commodities led to a gain of only NOK 1 billion to consumers. When it happened, it had to be something that wasn't the way it was supposed to be. Some studies suggested that Norway’s chains served much better than neighbouring countries. Then there was no great will to go further into it. I hope that it will be more difficult to take the winnings on one term below. I am somewhat surprised at the views of the Labour Party in the debate, based on what appeared in one post. It seems like it's still going to be like before, that what's happening, it's happening. That attitude is very different from the signals I received from the trade union movement. They are asking for help to the strong actors, as they say, take over the role of politicians. Not only nationally, but internationally, this is the same discussion that we have on globalisation – the strong actors take over social governance if politicians do not intervene. The trade union movement says they're losing their jobs, and they're afraid that the industrial workplaces might be as poorly paid as the store workplaces. They say that the chains should show the social responsibility that I have called for. I am a little surprised that these attitudes from the trade union movement do not appear in this discussion on the part of the Labour Party. I have tried to stay away from the debate on whether it is the Bond Team or the Rimi-Hagen that is right. I hope that the future studies to be done will put a little bond on those who want to make the most of this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e329	I agree that Morten Lund raises a lot of questions in his interpellation that may not have received the attention you would like. But the most important things that at least I felt were possible to handle in a direct dialogue were those that emerged in relation to the Competition Act and the Marketing Act. What Morten Lund now mentions about shifting power from elected bodies to the market is one of the most important points of attention that the power investigation is now going to work on. So until we get a slightly larger width of what's really going on, maybe we should just keep the debate alive in relation to that question. In connection with this interpellation, I am concerned that it has to be focused on all the stages in the chain. We get a lot of answers to that through the R & D works that have been ordered. Something has come to my department, something comes in the course of the year, and more can of course be done. Keeping our attention on this issue is important and there is an open debate. But there are some dilemmas that many people have been faced with. When we're going to get efficiency out, and it's relative to size, there's going to be problems for someone. It's a dilemma we have to live with. The economies of scale shall give rise to gains. The alternative to higher costs. And when efficiency and lower costs are the goal, we're in the middle of that dilemma. The main issues can be addressed by the Competition Act and the Marketing Act. Øystein Hedstrøm asked me a direct question about the complaint. Where complaints under the Competition Act are to be addressed is a matter that needs to be addressed more broadly than this. However, competition authorities have today the possibility to grant exemptions from the Competition Act when they come under a point called ‘special considerations’ or may be raised to a political decision, which is relevant to the issue referred to by Øystein Hedstrom. I think it is more right for politicians to take political decisions in addition to competition policy. In the case mentioned by Øystein Hedstrom, district policy was taken into account. It is not a signal that it is an attitude we should have in any case. It will be assessed on a case-by-case basis when complaints are raised to political level following decisions taken by the Competition Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e338	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e352	Modernisation of the public sector is a topic that is recurring in the political debate. In modernising, there are many development pathways. On the right hand side, it usually involves competitive outsourcing and privatisation. What was the approach to the Workers' Party's recent national meeting is more open, and will be interesting for the further political debate here on the mountain. For me, it involves reforms that make the public sector more accessible, user-friendly, better organised and rational based on its tasks. In such a strategy, the development of a public service office may be a central element. There will be a small cultural revolution in the public sector, where the levels are no longer seaworthy, but will think of cooperation and fissures. It will have many effects. It will be user-friendly in that the needs for services can be met in one place. There are many users who experience searching for the right office and correcting them. It's not just simple to be briefed in the floors. At the Public Service Office, the person, the generalist, is present, or the generalist you meet can communicate you to the person who is the person to whom the application is addressed. We experience in the districts the debate about the Equator disappearing, the centralized work office, the post office, which is probably already gone. Through a public service office, we can maintain services, in particular the daily services that are often pure information and dispatch services, which do not require professional personnel. The service office will become the first line in your community. This can help the development of public service agencies to maintain viable communities. Nor do I ignore the fact that the service office can have a central role in urban development, urban development, such as the Storforshei model works, where you can provide a number of public services in the post office. It may also be a contribution to the survival of the post office. I want to get closer to the discussion of what might be in the development of a public service office, but first I want to explain why I am travelling this interpellation. The idea was born at the beginning of this decade. A limited number of trials were subsequently started using different models, the experimental period ebbed out, evaluations were carried out. But nothing happened. At the same time, we see that there is pressure on the public sector, demands for efficiency, demands for better service. In the extension, centralisation is often within the existing structure. Once you've built up a system, there's always conservatism in it, innovation becomes flawed. I have often taken up the idea of extending the trials, developing them into permanent arrangements, and have always been met with goodwill, but not with action. When we dealt with postal activities in Norway, in the spring of 1996, two and a half years ago, SV, together with the Christian People's Party, presented the following proposals: ‘The tests with a public service office are extended to be tested in several areas, with a view to establishing permanent forms of cooperation.’ To our delight, this proposal received general support in the hall. It was adopted against four votes from the Progress Party; they have no desire to improve the public sector. It will only undermine their desire to build up the public sector. But after this decision, little has happened. It's been two and a half years since it was caught, and we're on the ground resting. Where local initiatives were taken in the meantime, they have met the wall – they have been denied. Without drawing any bastant conclusions, I see some barriers that have blocked. There has not been a high level of involvement in the state agencies, which would have to be very central to such a service model. There is probably also a lot of thinking behind that this is my table, and we have no use in engaging in such cooperation. For me, the benefits of central customers and communities. That's what the floors are for, not by themselves. In addition, establishments and a number of enterprises are very different in their structure. It is clear that this leads to different cultures and different performance requirements. Equation rates, bilge seats and Posten Norge BA are quite different in the way they work. I also believe that this can be a heavy matter in a government, because it involves so many departments. Someone must have a superior responsibility and authority, authority to speed up and coordinate the process. There are also pieces of legislation that need to be clarified, relating to privacy, labour law, etc. We need to get this kind of process going. Therefore, there may be a need for a cultural revolution both in the streets and in the departments. I see that the levels of cooperation need a structure, that things cannot flow freely in all sorts of variants. It is possible that state agencies should think of a package solution to which they can go into local solutions, a package with regard to which services can be provided. But at the same time, I think it's important to see that there has to be opening for local models. In the test scheme, we have had several variants. I can't go through them here, but I want to mention someone, and I have deliberately chosen two, where the Post Norway is included, because postal services are a little special and at the same time very vulnerable in a time of rapid technological development. In the town of Storforshei, the post office is based. In the post office, a few people can provide some public services, government and municipal services. In addition, the country postal service provider, based on this post office, provides some public services. This means that for simple public services, one does not have to go the 2.5 miles to the municipality centre of Mo. In terms of quantity, we can see from the statistics that social security services in particular are in demand. Studies show that customers are very satisfied. At the same time, it provides some additional services, and therefore revenues. And it might be good to have. The Namskogan has a width model where the municipality is centrally located. They have a headquarters in the city center and satellites in other neighbourhoods. They are partly located in the nearby store, where one thus not only gets to buy milk, bread and dinner, but also get done away with public services without having to go the six miles from Skorovatn to the municipality centre. One does not have to adapt to one day of the week, or within 14 days, where the Equator or Lender has office time. In the districts there are actually a number of one-man seats, and they can be difficult to reach. In Namskogan they also have brittle library services to the service office. A library that was previously open for a few hours a week is now open daily, and the loan has gone straight to heaven. According to an overview I'm sitting with, the five top services in the Namskogan outside the Post are the following: library travel settlement – social security free card – social security copying services maritime navigation on the equation page And then there are many other popular services, such as snowmobile license, tax cards, various payroll services. In other words, it's big width, and everything in one place. For me, the main objective of the public service office idea is: improved accessibility for the public to maintain and develop local service maintenance and development of the local environment and communities to improve resource use over time; The last one could be a topic for discussion. I do not think we see immediate economic impact, because established systems are extremely cumbersome. However, splicing layers will give rise to splicing if the floors take into account the shifting of a number of services, especially simple services, from the internal offices to a first line service. There could be a good rationalization effect in it. All in all, I believe that this is a healthy reform for users, for the communities and for the communities. I think that we now need to get out of the trial systems, and that we are facing a broad realization of such a reform. So what I want to tell you now is, what are the next steps from the Government to speed up the process? When will we go from goodwill to action? And what models will the Government use to implement this reform on a broad basis?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e439	The representative Myrvoll asks me a question that I'm actually very happy to get, and his posts could almost be my answer. In fact, I very much agree with both the approach and the need for – as Myrvoll also stated – to move forward. As I said, there has been an attempt in seven municipalities. This attempt was summarised in an evaluation conference last week. All customer groups and municipalities were very satisfied, but there was some mixed experience in some state agencies that had been involved in various types of trials. But what has now happened is that the Government has taken a decision to establish a public service office as a general scheme, which is to be based mainly on local initiative, and which is to be a cooperation between municipalities and state agencies. In order to achieve this through a permanent system, a working group should be set up to carry out the specific tasks of setting up public service offices in the municipalities. In addition to the departments concerned, the Local Governments’ Central Association, the Data Protection Authority, the State Information Service and the Consumer Council will be invited to participate in this working group. Although the Government has at present chosen not to set detailed and narrow limits on what a public service office will consist in and how it will operate, clear premises have been made for it: It is the government's premise that the establishment of a public service office should provide users of public services with a coordinated and good service, accessibility of services, and the scheme should be perceived as a real service obligation. The headline is: One door, one desk, one phone number! The establishment will also be able to promote rural development by defusing public activities, which will form part of the service offices. Co-location — in whole or in part — of public services could also bring economic gains in the longer term. In municipalities where some public agencies do not have offices today, the use of information and communication technologies for example: electronic information services, electronic processing and electronic data exchange could be additional to the services otherwise provided by the service office. In other words, the use of new technologies could reduce disadvantages at geographical distance and contribute to an efficient decentralised service. A public service office in a municipality shall not be a purely complementary to the existing structure in the case of public service provision, but a full or partial three instead of it. A well-functioning public service office requires active participation from the municipality and the municipal services, but it must be up to the individual municipality if it wants to get involved in the service office. Public service agencies should be built around an existing public agency – whether state or municipal – or around already established municipal schemes. It will vary from municipality to municipality, depending on existing structure and suitability. Public service offices will be suitable in small and medium-sized municipalities, but it will also be possible, as the representative Myrvoll was involved, to set up such service offices as satellites, for example. in relation to urban areas of the larger cities. The initiative to set up a public service office should come from a local level — from the municipalities themselves or from a state agency. The Municipal Council should approve municipal participation. The ‘User Office’ declaration used the term ‘Agency’ for persons in need of assistance from social security offices, employment offices and the community’s health and social work. A public service office shall cover a wider range of services and may thus include the three mentioned floors. I think it is important that we use one concept for what we are now developing, namely a public service office, where the user office, mentioned in the Adult Consumer Statement, is included, so that we do not talk past each other about two public user offices. ‘Public service office’, I think we should use. The Government believes that the public service office should have a common first-line service to which all users of the public services concerned should apply. The first line service must have the competence to provide general information on the different public services as well as access to the necessary data to refer to the right professional if more qualified procedures are necessary. In addition, the service office is required to process certain cases. What matters can be dealt with in a qualified manner will need to be different from the municipality to the municipality. And I also agree with the representative Myrvoll that this is probably not a concept that is finished when you open, but a concept that evolves over time until you find the right services and the right level for the issues to be dealt with there. Further work on setting up public service offices in municipalities will focus on many challenges, both formal and organisational. And it will necessarily take some time before all the pieces are in place, this despite the fact that the government will still give this project a high priority. As the representative Myrvoll sees, the Government is actively working on this matter, and the aim is that cross-sectoral cooperation in the form of public service offices will be able to offer users a future-oriented, customer-oriented public sector throughout the country. Finally, I would like to say a little about what Myrvoll had to say about the Post. There has been contact between the transport minister and me at an earlier time about how the Post could be included in the development of a public service office. Contact has been established between the Ministry and the Post on this issue, and the Post also attended the evaluation conference that took place last week. They have identified a need to provide services to the post offices around the country, which are under strong pressure, and how it can be interconnected and linked to the development of the public service office, will be followed up. It looks like they can have a time pressure on their earnings, a time that may be a little too short in relation to all the clarifications we have to make in order to be able to work until a framework law for a public service office. But the work has thus come out of the experimental stage and over against permanent solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e476	Does the interpellant wish to speak before we continue the debate?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e479	It might be relevant to ask if the representative wanted the floor, because the answer was so positive that one could ask for the word to cheer, perhaps to take the wave. But I think I'm going to wait this wave until we see the results, but I can promise that are the good ones, then I'm going to take the wave from here. Because it's been a lot of goodwill before. I had many rounds with former Minister Totland, I had an initial conversation with Red-Larsen, but he was occupied with other things and it got abruptly over, and I had some rounds with Rugaas. That was kind all the time, but I think they also had problems getting other departments to be equally interested, and not least make the state agencies work. In the meantime, little has happened, as I have said, and I have experienced that local initiatives that have been taken, among other things. a couple in my state – in Andøya, in Fauske, etc. – I have met the wall because the floors were of little interest, the post office was of little interest, and there was nothing left of it. So after two and a half years – after we made a decision 2 and a half years ago – we now have a working group. That is probably good, and I hope that working party is working fast! With regard to the structures of this, one sees enough that state agencies need to have some neatness. You can't have many local variants for how to handle things within these floors. It is therefore probably important to develop a form of package solution, which I had in mind, which can go into the local variants of the service office. There's the minister and I agree that we need flexibility, we need different forms of adaptation. Whether it's a small community, a community center, or maybe a city center, there's a whole lot of different things to deal with. But in this, the state should go in with a package. I'm a bit concerned with the Post, because that was the decision we made there, which was the starting point, that this could be an alternative to closure, where either the Post Office received additional services or the Post was part of a split layer, where others established it. There has been a great deal of refusal in the Post Office to do so. I think this is a way to maintain that kind of service, sail if they're now in rapid change. The residual services that people need on a daily basis can be established in such a context. I think it's important to get these further into the process. But what we've experienced so far is that it's often a local zeal and then a state refusal. Then I hope that the Council of State will see to it that the government's refusal is over in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e492	The last thing I can promise you. I think this is a very exciting and positive development in the modernisation of the public sector. And now, when this is a government decision, it's in the fact that the government councils are behind it, and the necessary work is being started so that government agencies can also clear up the obstacles that might be there, in order to be able to participate in such public service offices. The click on the case will therefore continue. In the meantime, it's happening very much joyously. Among other things, I have opened a public service office in Larvik, which started entirely on the basis of local needs and wishes, where the state floors were also present, and where the enthusiasm for doing so was very great. It therefore underlines my point that the initiative to set up such offices should come from a local level. At the same time, it is necessary to work from above in the various departments to give the right signals downwards to local offices, whether in terms of social security, work or equation, so that they see this as an appropriate way of working towards the first line service. I have great faith in this and have great enthusiasm to be able to drive this project forward. And then I hope we get as far as we can in the shortest possible time.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e499	: The representative Myrvoll was initially a little in doubt about the Labour Party's position on this matter, but I do not think he should be. The working party wants public services to be user-friendly. We are concerned that public services should appear as close and punctual to the population. We have, through our comments on the State budget, among other things. in thecitizen of society – also together with SV – pointed out on several occasions that public service offices should be set up in the municipalities. A common criticism of the public sector is that people are referred from office to office, from queue to queue in search of the right person, to whom the representative Myrvoll was in. In our opinion, public authorities can better coordinate their services and information so that users can meet a transparent system. For too many, the co-location of social, work, health and social services will provide better and more holistic help. We are aware that there are reorganisations in the fields of postal, Equation and Social Security. All these services should be considered in this context. That's how I've seen the Council of States. Of course, it is also a point that public offices should be more accessible when people are not at work. Trials have also shown that the public service office improves accessibility and user service. Public service agencies may also be a tool for maintaining viable neighbourhoods and communities. At the same time, it can maintain jobs in the districts and offer a similar offer to the population, irrespective of their place of residence. The Labour Party agrees with the concern that there will be a gradual reduction and centralisation of public services. The working party is therefore very satisfied that this matter is an issue of the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e512	In general, of course, an efficient and customer-oriented public sector is something we all want. In this context, it is important to have a modern, user- and customer-oriented public sector as a target. But unfortunately, neither service level, quality nor availability is always the way it should be in the various public offices today. Therefore, the public must at all times be aware of the need to pursue an attitude that users regard as their main customers, customers who are entitled to individual treatment and a high level of service. Such a starting point is both necessary and positive to focus on the level of public services and the ability of public authorities to pursue a more conscious approach to raising the level of service to the population. It is therefore interesting to look at the organisation of the external service function of the public sector, where a local service centre achieves better coordination of services of social offices, employment offices or social security offices. With a more conscious customer-oriented profiling in the public sector, a higher level of service will be a natural consequence, I believe. Since the public sector has such a central position in our society, a more customer-oriented public sector must therefore be regarded as a very important objective of how we will profile public administration to its citizens in the future. The idea of coordinating different public services at different levels of government has given positive experience in the seven municipalities in which this has been tried, as far as I can bring experience. The point of customers being able to address only one place is positive, and it represents a service promise for the public services. It is therefore hoped that the working group to be set up to further investigate the scheme with public service offices will do a good job, so that this can hopefully be a successful scheme for the benefit of customers, but also for improving efficiency and saving for the public. These service offices must not be an additional grant to the existing service functions and offices, and this is where the challenge lies. So this must not be an extra bureaucratic appendage, but it must result in more efficiency and provide economic benefits to the public. And if it does, this arrangement is absolutely worth looking at.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e521	I support the Government's assessment that the local initiative is very important to make this a successful process in the 435 Norwegian municipalities in which we hope this will be realised. At the same time, it is right to stress that the State's offices in each municipality should be given a clear mandate to participate in such arrangements, that they feel a certain pressure from the manager and a certain obligation to take initiative with the local authorities in order to achieve this. In this way, the State at the Council of State has an important role to play in trying to initiate properly with local actors. The Municipal Committee recently visited such an office in Løten. We were then a little surprised – at least I was – about the positive responses that this coordination had produced. They experienced it as exciting, as if a new, good environment were created, cooperation was established, the human relations between those added were better and more challenging, and not least the office was the solution right. They said that those who came to the office would like to have a problem, to a lesser extent, expressed negative emotional outbursts, and a few conflicts. And it may well understand will be the result when the public thus facilitates that people in crisis or in difficult situations with a need for public assistance are met in such a friendly and open way and get help without having to go from office to office. The initiative is quite right, and communities are only waiting to see this realised. At the same time, it is important that individuals have a sense of being taken seriously. In a situation where the public has a very strong position, it is important that the individual feels that his or her needs are taken seriously, and that one does not have to stand by the hua to get the dishes that one has after the legislation we have developed. In this situation, I would also like to stress that the etat limits are smaller. In this way, it is natural for the service office to force itself forward, so that the walls between the various levels of the municipality are reduced. There is a need for a service office with respect for the individual citizen, with the option to find targeted solutions. So I want to congratulate the Council of State, because it's going to be a crumb when it comes to realising this important project in the individual community, together with local authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e532	I believe that public service offices will be able to build a lot of local environments from moving away, especially young people. We know that the day the school, the post office, the gas station and the store are closed, when a person loses their everyday functions in the community, then the road is often not long enough for the idea of moving. An investigation from Møreforsking shows that the nearby store was as important as the roundabout to prevent people from moving from a peripheral. The number of shops has been reduced from 7,300 to 5000 in the last ten years. A large part of these deposits have a frame of the last or second last store in the city. So we know that Post Norway is also well in progress with a comprehensive closure of post offices throughout the country. My own post office, Undheim, disappeared that way. The local store would serve as a branch for us, it was said, but the store had not heard anything about this, had only read about it in the newspaper. Six months later, we heard that there was no branch. The store simply had to pay the post office in order to be allowed to provide the mail services. They felt that they could not afford it, and thus stranded it all. And this would be a collaboration with state agencies! Yeah, that's a little help with local goodwill. Otherwise, it is positive that the Government is now aiming at introducing public service offices, based on local initiatives and cooperation between municipalities and state agencies. I hope it doesn't work out like my local experience. Otherwise, there are experiences from around the country where one has tried to cooperate in other fields. The interpellant called Namsskogan, where the People's Library has co-located with the Social and Social Office and municipal information services. In addition, the library, together with local shops and mail, has revealed its own existence. Since these library branches are located in shops in the village, they have been available for the entire opening hours of shops, i.e. approximately. Seventy hours a week. This has again revealed the possibilities of a vast and very thinly populated municipality. This is a good example of something you've been given. Therefore, I agree with the Council of State when she says that she will not set detailed and narrow limits on what public service offices should consist of, and how they should be run. Well, here's only the imagination that can set the limits of what one can get when only the will is there.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e548	In liberal thinking, the individual citizen is the boss. In our opinion, therefore, public administration is more than a service body for citizens, it is the tool of the citizens. The citizen is the boss and not the customer. I will commend the Council of State for the good work that has been done in this matter. For the Left, the development of public service offices is an important issue in order to make the tools available and more transparent. When the citizen meets the public, he should ideally not have to deal with more than one telephone number, one door and one desk. It shall not be necessary to run from office to office for information or for matters to be dealt with. Modern telecommunications enable large establishments to be coordinated without having to be co-located. The service offices can be established in the municipality at local request, and they can communicate with agencies around the country. The development of service offices offers significant efficiency potential. Each department does not have to provide its own restricted services. The service offices take care of the first line service and coordination, which will lead to better time for specialists and case handlers to do their job. The majority of the population distinguish between the different levels of government — municipality, county and state. Administrative levels need to work together to develop service centres for a common first contact with the public. Government agencies should be able to purchase services from municipal service offices. Service offices may be located together with other local services, such as post offices, local shops or various institutions. Experience from the pilot projects with public service offices around Norway is positive. Both citizens and employees are satisfied with the scheme. In the opinion of the Left, the good experience of the pilot projects should be continued. The left will have a modern and serviced public sector, which can live up to the principle that it is the individual citizen who is the boss.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e563	First, I would like to pay tribute to the representative Inge Myrvoll, who has addressed a very important theme, which affects many people every day throughout our country. The Labour Party, together with the Right and the Advance Party, has proposed in the financial position and it has now been decided that a State Modernisation Committee should be appointed to propose structural changes in the public sector. This Committee shall, inter alia: work on the relationship between administrative levels for simplification, including the relationship between central government and local administration in order to eliminate unnecessary duplication of administration. The working party believes that we need to modernise our service apparatus. We need to get rid of unnecessary double administration, as we know exists. We need to get the user in the center a lot more than we have now. The service offices, which we already have in some places, are the beginnings of this work. I have just been to the Løten public service office, where they have started well, and as all the municipalities in the country now elective speeds to learn from. But the law continues to block many tense thoughts and ideas. I'm sorry. The Municipal Committee has asked the Ministry for a review of the special laws with a view to simplification, but nothing is happening. I would like to ask the Ministry to take this further. It's where the barriers to the good solutions lie. In the welfare message, we said a lot about the co-location of employment offices, social security offices and social services, and that was good. But I think that's not enough. Co-location is important and correct, but as some agencies have to deal with the municipal budget and others with the state, in many cases this will be more a struggle between which of these agencies will have to pay than what is best for the user. Nor should we forget that new technology means that distances are no longer a big obstacle. Conversations and meetings via computer screens mean that one today does not have to sit in the same room to deal with a common matter. And this is coming more and more and very quickly. I will dare to make the claim that the Post Office had realised that the Post Office could well be part of a service office in the municipality, it would not have been necessary to close down so many post offices. What is part of a service office, there are no limits to. It will depend on where in the country you are, how close or how widespread the population is on the spot. I am convinced that the service offices will be involved and put the users in the centre by having one place to contact. That's what the users want. The Service Office will help to save double work, distort administrative costs, not least control costs, over to outside services – and that is what we in the Workers' Party want. So something has to happen, and it's urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e582	The representative, Terje Johansen, had an ambition about one door and one person, and then you could get all the information by telecommunications and other means. It's a nice ambition for how things should work, but I believe one in some of these areas quite quickly would meet the door in terms of privacy. I don't think anyone disagrees with the importance of service offices, the importance of better coordination of public services and making the public more easily accessible – regardless of the level of administration – for each individual user. It requires co-location somewhere, it requires changes in the law, probably, for a lot of services in order to cooperate, because this is too difficult today. It requires professionals and professionals who are willing to cooperate. But it requires in a way that you choose what the strategy for these service offices should be. Do you have to put users in the centre, or is this a measure to maintain a set of services and the public employees in a municipality? I feel that there are two different angles of incidence from different representatives here. There is a very large difference between co-location of social security services, employment services, municipal social services, access to benefits, coordination of the services that users need to find in one place, and the question of maintaining a postal service related to a grocery store or in co-location with other services. This is why it is important to have a diversity of strategies to achieve this, and to see what needs to be adapted in individual municipalities. I want to get some salt in some of the biggest ambitions here, because I think sometimes we think it's easier to co-organize some of the services we have in public than it is. Sometimes we meet in professional barriers that make it difficult, and sometimes it is also so that the legislation and skills requirements are so detailed that it requires different professional expertise, which means that you cannot decentralize and acquire good enough skills anywhere to get it needed. I think, among other things: on the evolution we have in the system of equations, where one of the problems that makes a centralisation there today is a complex tax system – that one has gone from checking each individual equation to really checking every year, that more of the resources are being used on the complex business equation, for example. related to the sharing model and other things. It is clear that it makes the one-man offices more vulnerable, and that gives a centralisation within services. Some of this gets one in the social security system, and some of this gets another place, which makes this difficult. This does not mean that one should be negative and say that one should not have public service offices, but it is important to sort out what we are able to do in this area, base on the local conditions, and not consider this as the salvation of public servants in individual municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e593	It is a very positive attitude to the matter from the Government, but there are some problems that remain. Among other things, this government has also had a very strong ambition for coordination across departments. Cross-sectoral coordination is necessary between sectors if this is to be done. In an exchange of letters with the Department, I have received a slightly different response about who is actually coordinating, who is holding the threads. The answers I have received so far are worrying me a little bit, because it seems that most of the things really are like – that the Minister of Local Affairs is coordinating his or her work, that the Minister of Labour and Administration is coordinating his or her, and so on. I could imagine challenging the Council of State on that, if she could say a little about what ambitions this government has for coordination at state level, and what kind of ambitions the Government also has for effective and real decentralization, so that coordination across the local is possible. Because it's necessary. In that case, we simply have to go on different tasks and decentralize the exercise of power and the practice of politics. Then there are different reasons to be for this, as Erna Solberg was in. The possibility of being present with many services throughout the country is one of them. The users you're talking about, who are going to have services from e.g. a social security office and a work office, need in fact postal services as well as to be able to go to the store. So I think it's a little unnatural to make such a distinction between the two things, because in some areas I think they can just work together. But it's probably not that it's just the imagination that limits what we get. It may be difficult to regain some of the services that have been removed and centralised. It's also true that if we, for example, if you want the Post to be actively involved in this, we will probably have to give the Post a chance to do so. I do not ignore the fact that there may be any savings in the long term, but you should not initially call the companies and then think that it is the need – the need for money – to force such good solutions. Then we know that there are going to be closures very many places. A challenge for those who now believe that both the municipalities, the county councils, the state and the various agencies should be able to play an active part in this and have an offensive attitude to it, must be that they give room to it. It's a little bit of a challenge. The whole story goes to see through the law. Now, modern words are used as match-proof, etc., which means that the Storting will be very happy to decide exactly how to use the money you grant. I think that if we really want such coordination across, as this is, we have to be a little bit more willing to give the decisions into the system.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e606	I want to say a few words at the end of the debate today. I would like to refer to my colleague, Signe Eye, who pointed out that the Workers' Party is in favour of modernising the public sector, and I agree with that. In fact, I agree with my colleague Torbjørn Andersen from the Progress Party, who says that we should not create a new bureaucracy and exaggerate it, if we are to look at a conversion of the service offices. But I do not agree with the Council of State when she says that this must come on the municipal initiative. Because I believe that if we are to have a good and proper offer in service offices and coordination, a first line service in the future, it must be managed from a central level. I have no faith that the municipal initiative and the initiative of the individual citizen will give us a service office. We may wish that, and I do not disagree with that, but I do not think it is realistic. At least that's my opinion. So the Council of State points out that it is the small and medium-sized municipalities that want an advantage from these service offices, that it is where they will fit best. Then I wonder what happens to us who come from the bigger cities. Because it's clear that a budget in the state is large volume, almost as large as the City Hall. So when we talk about cities, like tax havens, social affairs and employment offices, they're bigger in the big cities than in the municipalities. I would like to hear the views of the Council of State on it. She talked a little bit about a satellite model being used in the cities, but I would like to know a little bit about what the Council of State means by that. So it's simultaneously tried to put in a post-debate, and it's pretty nuanced as well. It is true that when post offices are closed in rural areas, there is sometimes an offer for country mail, but when we leave post offices in the big cities, where there may be 15 to 20 000 people, there is no offer. So this is not as simple as just saying that post offices are laid down in the country, because the closure of post offices in the cities also has a big impact on cities. I hope the Council of State can say a few words in relation to the themes I have raised. Otherwise, I think this with the service office is very important, and it is important that we get ahead of this and get it right.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e619	After this hour of agreement, I have to say to Gunn Olsen, the representative, that when I had a small contribution on the National Meeting and Modernisation of the Workers' Party, it is actually a bit linked to the fact that in the next round we find ourselves together with the Right and the Advance Party in the strategy thinking about the modernisation of the public sector. I am a strong supporter of such modernisation, but I am not sure that that alliance is what will lead to the modernisation of the public sector. Then I would like to see in the extension of it a reduction, possibly a competitive concession, and some of the things that can be in that course. I want to warn against the alliance, and I really hope you find allies in other places when you're about to modernise the public sector. So I have to say something nice about Regeringen, because it was originally Tove Strand Gerhardsen who was kind of the first to start building out this mindset, so it stopped a little bit up, and I have a feeling that the Government has now taken a step towards action. I haven't said so much nice about the center administration lately, so I can say that it sounds good that you're now going a step further, from attempts to action. And here, team games are required, not least team games in the government, team games in state levels and between central and local actors. I think, of course, that there has to be something in the bottom, you can't make a lot of variants. Not least, the state agencies have to have, as I said before, some kind of package that you can go in with, and then we have to find local variations in the way you design it. I would like to comment a little on what was said by the representative Lund about the Post. The problem in the cities is that you have cows. The problem in the districts is that you have nowhere to queue, because it doesn't exist. If the Post is to be integrated, I think it is more in a district context of the type of service office/colocation. In the cities, I think it's a slightly different issue and a slightly different debate about the role of the Post. In terms of competence, I don't think we disagree so much that the first line in many ways is a service line for information, communication, despatch and, not least, dissemination to those who have competence. I agree that on the equation page there are not as many services that can be put out as the first line, very much beyond. But precisely by having this centralisation because it requires a high level of competence, it is even more important that the simple services, such as tax cards or the like, can be available in the local environment, so that when the competence is centralised, the daily services are available. Then the public service office is a good model – it's just the timetable I'm very excited about.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e630	First to Sign Eyes recording of a new selection. It is in my department a very active State Secretary Committee for the modernisation of the public sector, such as the I have been working on this matter, and I am working on many of the questions that the representative Eye is otherwise concerned about. It should now be based on the work to be done in this working group, because we see quickly that existing legislation in the practical implementation of these service offices will meet formal obstacles in the form of provisions of laws, including special laws, and regulations, which prevent the implementation of this concept. This is also documented in the Statskonsult's report. The formal barriers concern, inter alia: powers of access to information for generalists, transfer of authority and employer questions to those working in offices. It is these formal obstacles that are to be identified through the work to be done. Such monitoring will also be a follow-up to the Storting Decision of 26 March 1998 on the review of specific legislation relating to cross-sectoral cooperation. It may also be appropriate to establish a framework law for these offices to ensure a formal platform for such offices for both the process and the content, where it is to be regulated. So that work I feel is taken care of. Otherwise, I want to come back to some of the points that have been raised. I would like to stress again that we use the term ‘public service office’ in full scope for public services. I don't think it's a good idea to get a kind of approach to this that only has health, social and social convergence. It has to be part of the main concept of a public service office, otherwise we stigmatise a part of the users who are going to enter here. With regard to the city-country relationship, I think it will be an appropriate question in the different municipalities how to use public service offices – whether it is on the outskirts of a municipality or in a city area. Therefore, the Government will not give this as a centrally imposed reform to the municipalities, but simply give a call to the municipality even to be the one who decides to do so, with the initiative of both the municipality and, where appropriate, the state. We see that changes in the functioning of state agencies result in different allocations of resources than before. You don't have all the skills everywhere, you centralize some competence in some places, but it doesn't exclude the other areas from using that competence. We can do that with new technology. Some of the exciting things about this concept is that a boat can be close to the first-line service and have access to the width of knowledge at the same time. I would like to have another 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e648	Unfortunately, it is not possible to get it. That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e662	From the Committee's side, we have chosen to regard this matter as a purely formality. We are a member of the International Cooperation Organisation CERN, and what we are about to discuss today is just the question of calculating the quota for 1998. Because of changes in exchange rates and changes in gross domestic product, we need an additional 20 million. kr. Otherwise, we haven't really gone into the issues, we don't have any comments on what has been proposed by the department, and we have a consultation on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e669	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see this page]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e677	Then we're ready for voting. In Case No: 1 and 2 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-02.ana.ud350e740	There is no record.
