ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e37	The representatives Berit Brørby and Gunnar Skaug, who have been on leave, have once again taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e48	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament on Thursday and Friday, and considers this to be adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e53	I suggest Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e58	Asmund Kristoffersen is proposed. – Other proposals are not available, and Asmund Kristoffersen is unanimously elected President of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings. The representative of Steinar Bastesen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e63	I am pleased to make a proposal to carry out genetic testing of wolves in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e68	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will propose that today's Stortinget meeting be suspended at 9 p.m. 12.15 in order for representatives to be able to participate in the event at the Nobel Peace Prize ceremony in the City Hall. Furthermore, the President will propose that the meeting be resumed at 9 p.m. 15 and continues until today's map has been processed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e84	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 55 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 40 minutes, the Advance Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Christian People's Party 20 minutes, the Centre Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Twist Party elected 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e95	In our society, we also meet the results of the changes in society such as conflicts, generation settlements, settlements with traditional family patterns and conflicts vis-à-vis our new countrymen and women. It's constantly giving new fracture surfaces and perspectives, which may surprise you, but it never gives you simple solutions. When we get to it, we may agree that our chance to further develop our well-known welfare society is to master and break through prejudices and add up to a practical policy that can cope with economic, social and cultural tensions in a humane way. Or to put it this way: we are anxious that we should experience that humanism and consideration for the weakest are ridiculed by people who experience the welfare state as a scourge and a guardian rule. We believe that precisely the challenges we face in multicultural Norway will increase the need for the services of society. Increasing the need for knowledge and competence will strengthen the requirements of established educational institutions and also make our adult training organisations an important factor. We believe from an overall assessment that emphasising the service side is more right in the time we're in, and the time we're going into, than emphasising individual transfers. At the same time, we say something about the direction we in the Workers' Party will go in the future. The Party builds its education policy on the need for everyone to have the same opportunities on the basis of their own assumptions for development. This applies from kindergarten, kindergarten, secondary school to higher education. We believe that further development of the single school will be an important guarantee that we will be able to cope with precisely this multicultural, diverse Norway. Maybe it's been talked about the college that became so common that it almost becomes like a bunch that doesn't mean anything anymore. But we've actually agreed to facilitate a single school system because we want a society where different people meet, become familiar across borders and learn to respect each other. For us, too, the weight we put on a school for everyone, something about a social view. In this context, the cash support indicates a signal about another policy. The same signal gives a reduction of 30 pst. on a school leisure scheme which is still only in its initial phase. The priorities of the Labour Party are, of course, also concentrated for next year's budget on the education policy we have prejudiced and continue to maintain. We believe that kindergarten should have its rightful place as a first step into an education system. We believe that the social environment and educational stimulation that children encounter in early childhood affects them both in terms of learning, development and attitudes. Norwegian school holds a high standard, and it succeeds in providing basic skills. It further stands out well in increasing international competition, despite various OECD reports, which say that teachers should be even more involved in the class situation. But if we compare the school's situation with our high ambitions and the demands of the future, the school needs to be able to improve in a number of areas. This is why we focus on quality, where the curricula should not act as an obstacle to educational development or to cross-cutting education. The approach taken in an increasing number of local communities between kindergartens, school leisure schemes and schools increases the prerequisites for putting individual children’s needs at the centre by exploiting the different human resources. In joint programmes, the educational activities may constitute a whole that just increases quality. At the same time, this makes great demands on the educational leadership. At the same time, there are several children who leave school without having knowledge that they need. As we see it, every student who leaves school without satisfactory knowledge or with little confidence in learning is a shortcoming for school as such. Much has been said and written recently on the subjects that are missing in school. Our attitude is that education in the environment, in science and technology is particularly important, and these subjects must be introduced early and at the same time have a means of integrating them into different subjects and subjects. The same applies to mathematics, where a more practical pedagogical approach demonstrates the importance of gaining knowledge in this field. The new technology is important, then, that everyone joins, so that there is no A and B team – those who have opportunities because they have a home that has enough of PCs, and the others who don't have it. And here we believe that joint plans and systematic work between school, school library and public libraries should be developed. Security is a key word when we talk about good growth conditions to counteract bullying and racism. Then we won't get past increased student influence in school either. Taking time to systematically involve students in their own plans and plans will also increase the possibility of increased interest. This is why we follow up the report of the Children’s Ombudsman, which mobilises students as well as parents and teachers for active participation in, among others. its indoor climate. That is why we are putting on the agenda the question of a separate labour and environmental law for students, but as part of the overall integrated educational environment. We also believe that it is necessary to increase the influence of students in higher education in order to ensure optimal learning. The training book that has been used in the apprenticeship system can just be seen as one of several ways in which the school fulfils its democratic mission. The rapid pace of change in the world of work places enormous demands on knowledge and competence and therefore on continuous updating. At the same time, education is a source of self-confidence and contributes to a society of active people that can change and improve their and others' lives. In this context, we see the reform of continuing training. This is why we are focusing on decentralised education, on increased means of continuing education, on projects that can develop real skills while walking the road, without first having guarantees of success. This is why we are putting up with a different flexibility in public education institutions for them to master stronger competition from both foreign and domestic private actors. And we believe that the development of higher education must continue throughout the country. In recent years, under changing governments, there has been a trend towards centralisation and new housing patterns. In the view of the Labour Party, it is essential that in all parts of the country there are heavy centres to which young people can apply, both to change the environment, to be anonymous for a period of time, to experience that urban environment, without having to leave their region. Our commitment to the Tromsø and Bodø environments must be seen in such a context. No settlement policy is better than the one that puts it on competence. But our colleges and our universities need to open up more to society around us, so we are taking the initiative to improve the coordination of higher education and regional research foundations. The needs of society and industry shall be reflected in education as well as in research. Our country is at a good level in research, but not in relation to the new knowledge-based society, and in relation to other countries, we now seem to be slowing down – hence a state research fund, for which there is now a majority, therefore more SND expertise, therefore development contracts. The majority position we are discussing today on the basis of an agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party and the Right in terms of education policy has features that go in a different direction than the most people have both expected and supported, because the results in terms of the single school have been so visible in a larger context. There is not a lot of money to move on in the annual budgets, because quite a lot of it is sorted out by laws and regulations, and some people like to make a number of it. At the same time, the priorities we are making, our choices, that we are responsible for. Now I don't think that public schools, kindergartens and the school leisure system are going through a civil settlement that first puts emphasis on individual transfers, increasing parental burden and increasing subsidies to private schools – and away are all the promises. However, the lines drawn by the majority can lead to costs for society, if welfare schemes – social systems – are first to be dismantled before new movements can restore them without unsustainable effects on the younger children and their superiors. With this, I would like to include the Workers' Party's proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e131	The representative Grete Knudsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e136	The representative Grete Knudsen was in his post inside the SFO. The view of the Progress Party on SFO will be reflected in our initial comments. We establish that we want an SFO based on parental management and self-financing. The Progress Party believes it is entirely right to have an SFO scheme. We understand that many parents feel the need for a child’s password before and after school. But we don't see it as a task for tight public budgets. However, if resources had been used for the dissemination of knowledge, for example: in the form of extended school days, we would have been a lot more positive. In the spring of 1998, Stortinget dealt with the legalization of SFO. In connection with this, the Workers' Party proposed new, strict requirements for the recruitment and design of the SFO, and a ceiling on parental payment. Similar staffing requirements and other requirements have been imposed on Norwegian kindergartens, and are one of the main reasons why we in Norway have very expensive kindergartens. It is clear that the proposal put forward by the Workers' Party during the landfilling of the SFO will significantly undermine the scheme, much more than the 7 million. kr the lot has drawn up the Government's original proposal. My question is therefore: Where is this money in the Workers' Party's proposal, and has it been calculated what the future need for money would be if the Workers' Party's model were to be chosen? And last, but not least, where do you want to take this money from?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e147	I noted in my post that it is just the trend that the Progress Party and the Right have been festering for many years in terms of the school leisure system, which now has wind on the sails, and which has been supported by the government parties by a long way. We know how hard it was in this room to get through the school leisure system and also the 6-year reform. It is in the first place the Centre Party that has turned around in this case and is now laying down a line that breaks with the total vision that we have of a pedagogical activity, where the play – development for the children – goes hand in hand with learning. We believe that a pedagogical management of the school leisure system was gradually to be incorporated, so that children who needed a different type of training than those who were given in a typical classroom situation could also enter the school leisure system during the school day. This has so far not got any excitement here in this hall. I think that's sad when we know children's development. Children have different needs, and if the Progress Party wants to extend the formal school day and reduce the possibility of going to the school leisure system, we will focus on it differently. And I think, in fact, the school leisure system will not be more expensive than the Progress Party would suggest in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e154	It was interesting to hear the views of the representative Grete Knudsen on the growing-up conditions of children, and I agree with the point that the draft budget of the majority would not, to the extent that there would be any reduction in the institutions and the offer that children have in their everyday school life. Another interesting moment was that the representative Grete Knudsen stressed the development of competence in the regions. This has not been a prominent feature of the Labour Party's policy in the past. And it's a pleasure to hear the support of the regional research foundations. When we look at the Labour Party's proposals for budgetary priorities, there are many good purposes that are being given increased appropriations. However, the budgetary reform adopted by the Stortinget also reveals the impact. Then there are three main features that point out: there are cuts in private schools, private colleges and higher education institutions. The most surprising, however, is the decline in the priority of higher education, which is represented by the cut in private colleges. What's this for? This affects nurse training, pre-school teacher training and teacher training. Are we now faced with a situation in which the Workers' Party will give priority to early and early schooling ahead of higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e163	The youngest children are the worst in the budgetary agreement that government parties have concluded with the Progress Party and the Right by the fact that kindergarten expansion falls like a rock. Then you go into the school leisure system with a 30 pst reduction, and we know who's not going to be able to use the schemes. We also know that the municipalities that are now in a difficult situation will add this to an increased parental payment. It represents a line change, as we see it, when in 1997 you had a kindergarten expansion of 13,500 places and in the current year only 3,500 places. So the municipalities have understood what the government wants, and they've followed it up. Now comes the school leisure system. With regard to the development of competence in the regions, I almost have no idea what the representative Arne Lyngstad is aiming for. During the period of government of the Workers' Party, there has been an enormous expansion of the higher education institutions throughout our society. That in itself has been an important democratisation. Now what we're saying in this position is that we need to coordinate regional research institutions with colleges in the same way that we're trying to coordinate what's happening centrally. But in terms of emphasis on higher education institutions, we have, in addition to what the Government has done, also focused on industrial research, which has now been reduced. When we were to choose what we should bet on when we had limited funds after this conciliation, it was quite obvious that the Workers' Party was investing in public schools, and that the appropriations for the private in that context had to be reduced. That's our vision, just for the sake of the college and the start that kids are going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e172	It must be allowed to remind the Committee's chairman that the Workers' Party had drastically cut private schools long before there was any framework decision and that it was part of the Workers' Party's draft budget. Yes, in fact, the party had cut the education sector bigger than they had in addition because of their attempt to rage the private schools. I noticed with great interest the ideological introductory part of the committee leader's talks. It gave almost nostalgic feelings, because the kind of reverberation of old socialism in today's world is so rare that it almost starts to become protective. I noticed that the committee leader in his polemics against the cash support scheme spoke about the nursery in a way that allowed the conclusion to fade away near that the aim of the Workers' Party is to lower the compulsory school age further from 6 years to 5 years and further down. This is how our former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland expressed himself in the debate about the 6-year-old reform, and it would be interesting to get Grete Knudsen's answer to whether that is actually what she believes when she says in her post that the kindergarten should have its rightful place on the way into the educational community. During the financial debate on 30 November here in Stortinget, I also noticed that the committee leader spoke in a similar way: ‘We have seen and see training as a self-esteem, but also as a tool to balance social and economic inequalities. In many ways, child and education reforms are the most important social engineering projects in recent times.’ It's actually the only place I've recorded in the last decade that someone is using the engineering metaphor in a positive way in terms of social development and social planning. I would very much like to listen to the deepening of how society will function as a machine in the future if the engineering projects succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e188	Inge Wohnung follows closely the development trend in the line of the representative from the Progress Party, with his emphasis on private schools. It is this government party that has now entered into such close cooperation and that is very clear in education policy. When the Workers' Party has seen it as important in this context to give priority to social institutions and the primary school at the expense of private schools, it is precisely because we believe it is right to further develop the school where everyone meets. When we originally also reduced the appropriations for private schools in our alternative budget, it was because the kindergartens came out so badly. We saw our budget line in an overall context. I mentioned earlier and mention again, that kindergarten is an important starting point for many children. It provides a security and an opportunity for development that many of them might not otherwise have had. What we have given particular attention to is getting closer cooperation between kindergartens, the school leisure system and the school. This does not mean that we have any plans to reduce school leaving beyond what both Inge Wage and I have previously agreed. Finally, when I used a metaphor about engineers, maybe it was because I'm married to one, who always thinks it's the builders of society.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e199	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e205	The policy of the Progress Party on matters of faith, life and learning – church, education and research – is based on a general principle that all people have the right to their own choices and thereby the right and duty to be beneficiaries. Unfortunately, the individual's responsibility for making decisions on his own behalf and the family's responsibility and obligation to make decisions on behalf of children, especially with regard to education and training, is reduced day by day. The public's attachment to reducing the individual's own will is not only objectionable but directly irresponsible in a living democracy. Childhood and the early and perhaps irresponsible play of the child is a developmental stage in which learning is done through trial and error, a method that works very well for larger children as well. But what do we do for adults? Well, we're sending the kids to kindergarten and the six-year-olds to school and school leave because the kids there get a pedagogically organized offer, which we're taught to believe is better. Employees have competence, but where does the free play and the child’s ability to learn from their own experience lead to? The propulsion party is for a natural childhood, where the main element is children and parents in interaction and development, not parents in selfish pursuit of their own satisfaction and recognition, where children are symbols under public care. Children have the right to parents, and their parents have a supreme moral duty to be just parents. It's also legal. The average number of guest appearances by parents in relation to their children is two hours per day. Today is not a good solution, but unfortunately meets the needs of many parents in everyday life – simply to survive. How can we accept that the country's largest party is still the target of egoism put in the system of the public framework? So over to a very important point in public school, i.e. the primary school. In Norway, more than 50 pst. of all schools ineligible or few. We often associate these schools with primary schools, and the primary schools are considered by many to be economically more expensive in operation than large age-shared units. There are actually calculation models that provide operationally optimal schools economically, but these mathematical models cannot calculate the well-being, development and, for example, the well-being of children. the need for additional education. There's no room for emotion in mathematics. Its structure does not allow for discretion. Either the answer is right or it's wrong. Almost right or a little bit wrong isn't going to work. When proposals are constantly being made by consultants around the country's municipalities about the closure of schools to save money, I take a great deal of distance from this kind of economic downturn. The calculation pieces are often associated with major defects and defects, e.g. in the case of forecasts and review of class divisions in the receiving schools. The long-term economic perspective is not present, and current savings are often extra costs in a longer perspective. The Progress Party strongly rejects this kind of policy and promotes alternative solutions to maintain the mainstream school as a school and a cultural supporter in the community. Knowledge dissemination is the primary task of the school, and school legislation is based on the abilities and needs of the individual child – one from the law, but it is supportive when learning is done through staff who themselves lack a good basis for learning away, for example. mathematics, biology and science, not to mention physics and chemistry. Teachers are the school's most important educational tool, but basic and evaluation qualifications have been and are poor. When a teacher is admitted as a general teacher, he or she teaches in all subjects, even if his or her own knowledge of some subjects is inadequate, for example: and documented only by grades from high school — and that was it. This must end, and teachers who do not have the necessary knowledge must accept their own lack of knowledge and correct this. The children are the school's most important issues now and in the future. The school is run for the children. The work of teachers is a matter for the social partners, but not at the expense of the educational environment of children. When teachers are insecure in their own competences, their insecurity is infecting the children, and the need for extra education seems to explode. Extra education and special education are another important theme for the Progress Party. When we see how large sums are used to help weak groups and children with different types of disability to acquire basic knowledge, this must be seen as a symptom of a long-standing misguided school policy. When up to 30 pst. of all Norwegian children need some form of organized education, some have to tell them that this is wrong. 30 pst. by Norwegian children of school age cannot have disabilities in relation to the normal child who makes it necessary to take them out of education or to strengthen the teaching function. At the discretion of the Progress Party, the school must be adapted to the individual child and not be adapted to the school system, which is required by the ‘poor school’. Normal education needs to stimulate increased learning to suit individual needs. In order to increase the overall competence of the nation, which will also benefit e.g.: The school, health care and, in particular, research, we need good study funding opportunities and, most importantly, schemes that ensure a humane life after completion of education. In this pious wish of the Progress Party, there is a demand that the State Loan Fund for Education should function as a professional bank. Both floating and fixed interest rates must be offered on this type of loan. In addition, the representatives of the Storting have to consider that when the study period is over and the students get into paid work, they have to have an opportunity to handle themselves without social assistance. The Progress Party therefore proposes that the costs of the Loan Fund be deductible before gross taxable profit on the tax return. This applies both to interest and repayment to the Loan Fund. Policy-driven interest rates are discussed from an old habit, much because you can't raise your eyes on the future and a life of freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e224	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e227	We just got an introduction to the ideal progress party society when it comes to education. At the same time, we experience today's education and today's school being very black-painted. There is a bad level of knowledge on students, we have bad teachers, educators, too much public control, etc. I'm going to be specific about one thing, and it's about training within the criminal justice system. In the Preferences dialog, the Progress Party type that they are "applying primarily to reduce" the amount of training input they provide. One can ask questions if that means that the Progress Party will eventually remove the entire entry and remove the entire supply. At the same time, in its general notes in the Introduction to the Option: ‘The aim of all education must... be to create the basic security of all children and young people that they will be able to take care of themselves through participation in working and social life.’ That's good. But hasn't there anything to say to those who have come out crooked in life? The party points out that many long-term unemployed young people lack ‘basic literacy skills’. We also know that this applies to many of those in prison. In addition, we know that there is a large proportion of those who are lacking basic education and that they are lacking further training. Is this not a cause for concern for the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e239	I will be allowed to thank Sigvald Uppøen Hansen for his compliments. I'll take it in that sense. Uppøen Hansen said that, in our opinion, the level of knowledge in the school was poor both for students and teachers. Instead, I would say you get what you pay for, and it's not our school policy that's been implemented. In terms of training, schooling, prison inmates, the Progress Party – and I thought everyone was aware of it – is of the idea that punishment is punishment. When Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen combines the conditions of youth in prison, under punishment, with the conditions of long-term unemployed youth outside prison in terms of knowledge and skills, I feel that the money can be used very well to school young people outside prison, not those who are in prison as punishment for something they have committed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e246	I appreciate much of what the Progress Party says, not least in terms of church and Christian faith and morality on which we are to build our society. However, it is the school sector that I also want to draw attention to, and it is not least the Uppøj Hansen also reiterated in relation to, that children should be ‘capable of taking care of themselves’, as underlined. My question is, what about becoming a useful human being in society? There are many different things about a person that it is important to deal with, and not just by rejecting and punishing. Here, too much individualization is being done on the part of the Progress Party, I think. In addition, the Progress Party points out that excessive administration and management of universities and the higher education sector must cease. What's that? Similarly, it is claimed that higher education institutions and, in particular, universities have a small flexible structure. This is exemplified by the fact that it is usually not feasible to relocate professors from one faculty to another, and the reason is that this group rarely has the necessary width in its professional qualifications. But hasn't the representative Ursula Evje just stressed the need for us to have people with skills that are at the forefront, who can help and bring this back to teachers, who can then bring it to our children? I don't fully understand the logic of this and I would like to ask Ursula Evje if not investing in research and development is helping to bring our society forward for the benefit of our children.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e251	There was a lot of work here at once, but there is something I can answer fairly well. When I talk about the rigid structure of universities and colleges, it's the fact that you don't have an extensive opportunity to hire people for a short or long time. You have to define the time of employment. If you need them longer, it'll be a problem. If you need them shorter, you don't get rid of them. This costs money. Once I've used the professors as an example and the width they have of their professional qualifications, that doesn't mean I don't have much respect for them, also for the two professors who sit in this room. But I have a hard time seeing that at least one of them would be particularly useful at the mathematical science faculty and teaching mathematics etc. But it's not a demeanor to him. In my opinion, it just says something about a professor having to have a certain degree of top competence to become a professor. As far as research and development is concerned, I broadly agree. This has also not been cut off by the Progress Party, except that we demand a very, very small rationalisation gain. It should probably also be possible within this part.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e262	I'm a little bit in doubt about whether I'm one or the other of the two professors in this room, but just want to tell the representative Evje's orientation that I'm of the few university professors in this country who have lectured at all the faculties and thus must be considered to be reasonably useful in most contexts. I asked for the word to link a few comments on the topic of study funding – one comment that expresses strong consensus, and one that expresses disagreement. The first comment is with an encouraging look at the Council of State. The discount was based on the assumption that a new fixed-rate scheme was adopted in the State Loan Fund to offer a fixed-rate offer to all borrowers. Then, in my opinion, it is quite unacceptable to reply that there are insurmountable technical problems associated with getting to what any medium-sized rural bank in this country gets, and which also state banks, like the Husbank, do without difficulty. It's simply not acceptable that the Storting's assumptions are not followed up and realized. So the second point is that the proposal of the Progress Party to go back to a system where the deduction of student loans is also deductible in the tax return. It's a system that existed in the 1960s. But after that, both taxation and study finance have changed many times and in many ways. So I'm a little surprised that the Progress Party is able to draw such a blatant conclusion that this will be a sensible way to improve student funding. Therefore, I would like to ask: has the Progress Party made any attempt at all to calculate the costs of its proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e273	I'm glad that Professor Wohnning was given the opportunity to be both uncertain and brilliant with his knowledge. With regard to the deduction of interest and the deduction of student loans in the tax return, it is not always the case that an old, well-tested and well-functioning system necessarily needs to be reformed for its own sake. This type of loan is a loan for the acquisition of future income. In business, it is relatively well known. You often use it. Why should an enterprise be able to raise such a loan and receive such a deduction, while a youth who invests a not insignificant amount of money in the acquisition of his own future income is not to receive it? I hope that's an answer to your salary. When it comes to costing, I can't see that others in this room have costed anything, so why in the world is the Progress Party going to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e282	So the line change is over. The President will ask Ursula Evje if she will take up the suggestions the Progress Party has made in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e287	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e294	Then Ursula Evje has taken up the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e298	On the day of the Nobel Peace Prize award and the 50th anniversary of the UN Declaration of Human Rights, I would like to stress the importance of strengthening the value dimension of all education. The focus of education policy must be on the learning of students and students, and this requires attention both to professional content and to the learning environment. Children and young people need a safe and stimulating breeding environment. Therefore, it is natural for the school to focus on violence and bullying, drug abuse and racism. Through student democracy and school mediation, students themselves can work to solve these challenges. The Christian People's Party thinks it's exciting that the government is raising entrepreneurship as a way of thinking and action in school. Entrepreneurship as a teaching ideal in school focuses on the creativity, responsibility and ability of students and improves their ability to meet future challenges. However, the school also needs to provide adapted training based on the needs of the students and the opportunities of the community as a learning environment. I am also pleased that the Government wants to integrate environmental education into school, which allows for focus on management responsibilities and a sustainable future. By focusing, for example: on these dimensions of education, the Government has shown a forward-looking course and will of Norwegian school. It is time for the content of education to be put into focus. The best way to prevent the ridicule of the weak and our humanistic traditions is just to focus on the school's circulation. In a budget debate, it is natural to focus on resource use and priorities. For several years, reforms in primary and secondary schools have required increased resources. This has to some extent gone beyond the emphasis on higher education. We are now in a situation where it is still necessary to ensure the quality of these reforms, especially in the case of continuing training for teachers. But it is striking that during last year's budgetary treatment, the Labour Party focused heavily on higher education, while this year it is almost silent. The Christian People's Party, on the other hand, follows up the priority of higher education. In addition, the Government has provided for a strengthening of basic research. Higher education is currently undergoing an exciting transition process. A public body, the Mjøs Committee, works on several important aspects of higher education, including: financing and grade system. We are also faced with a reform of competences for adults. This will lead to demand for new study offers and adapted training schemes and admissions based on real skills. We will also have a review and debate on the economic situation of the higher education sector following the implementation of the higher education reform. In today's attitude, a joint committee then asks that the government promote proposals for a law on experimental activities in the law on universities and colleges. This opens up experimental activities at individual universities and colleges based on local initiative, and I hope the institutions accept this in a positive way and see the possibilities for modernising the university and higher education sectors. Because we are now facing such a modernisation process. In this process, however, it is important to identify the specificities of the academies with a focus on freedom and depression. The Christian People's Party wants to actively engage in this process and stimulate innovation, quality and internationalisation. That is why it has also been important for the Christian People's Party in this budgetary procedure to give priority to higher education. The Norwegian Church is experiencing a difficult economic situation during these days. Under the new Church Act, the local church has gained greater autonomy, but is still dependent on municipal and state funding. Having a state church obliges both municipalities and state to provide the Church with sufficient resources to carry out tasks under the Church Act's intentions and to provide the Church's employees with working conditions according to today's standard. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Stortinget today decides to ask the Government to present to the Stortinget an overall assessment of the Church's economic situation after the introduction of new church legislation. I am also pleased that the Stortinget will stand by its previous decision to take greater responsibility for the Church's work abroad by increasing the grant to the Maritime Commission and the Norwegian Church abroad. The budget we are adopting today is based on the main priorities set by the Government. In the course of the budgetary work of the Grand Duchy, it appeared necessary to make greater reductions in public expenditure than provided for by the Government. This has led to a lower framework for the education and research sector than proposed by the Government. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party will argue that the budget framework is sufficient to continue to develop a good, modern education system for the next millennium. Finally, I would like to address the proposal that the Christian People's Party has promoted in the vote together with the Centre Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e317	Arne Lyngstad has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e322	Arne Lyngstad talked about values in his post. But what kind of values is it when the budgetary agreement leads to that it is the very youngest of our schoolchildren who get dizzy, who have to pay for this conciliation, among other things.? The school leisure system is greatly reduced. You take 50 million. D from school materials in the context of the 6-year reform, and it is estimated that 20 million. kr from education to foreign-language children. There are some areas. When the Workers' Party this year can't spend as much on higher education and research as we did last year, it has its background in filling up these posts that affect our youngest schoolchildren so strongly. We find it irresponsible to help make more key children, that there are more children coming home empty houses with the key around their necks and waiting for their parents to come home from work. We don't want that kind of society, and I don't think Arne Lyngstad wants that either. I would like to ask Lyngstad if he does not think it is bad to crop these posts so much. I get many signals from municipalities and councillors in connection with the budget, and I can tell you that in a municipality in Buskerud, the councillor has proposed to put down the school leave scheme at six schools. We have hope that politicians will be able to stop it, but that's the situation in many places. Will Lyngstad once again give priority to the school leisure scheme? I am thinking about the revised national budget or the next budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e329	There has been a consensus in Stortinget that it was necessary to tighten up the Norwegian economy in the autumn. It also appeared to be a majority of political parties that taxes and levies should not be increased in this budget line. It is clear that when this happens, it must be tightened up in the public sector. Then we get a lot of cuts that may seem problematic, but they don't mean that the offers are removed. The school leisure system will continue to exist around the municipalities. The municipal economic structure is about equivalent to that of the government, and an increase in the municipal sector is achieved according to the municipal economic proposition. But it is true that the parental pay for the school leisure scheme increases by 120 kroner a month on average. I may be the only one in the committee who notices it on my wallet, because I have children in the SFO. But the offer is there, and therefore it is not right as the representative Dørum says, that as a result there will be more key children. It won't be. The offer is still there, but the parental payment is likely to increase. This will not happen in all municipalities either, because there are a number of municipalities that have not given municipal support to the SFO, and these have to contribute to it after the amendment of the law next year. But when we have got the device on the cuts that we have, it is also linked to the fact that the Workers' Party chose to stand outside of a budget agreement in this year's arrangement by standing so stubbornly that the cash support would not be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e334	I stand here with an article from the magazine Student Status, which the representative Lyngstad also gets in his post. It is an article from the November issue entitled ‘For the purpose of registering students who are unfit for the profession’. From the article I quote: ‘Experts from both teacher training and health and social education show that a student who has been found unfit for the profession in one higher education institution continues the same education at another higher education institution. It is not a human right to become a teacher or a health and social worker, believes the National Association of Students, and wants a national register to be established to register unaccompanied students.’ Does the representative Lyngstad agree that this is a problem? And if he agrees with the students' proposals, he will specifically consider our proposal No. 18, which is referenced in the setting?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e349	It is clear that, in relation to specific teacher training, this is an important element of early education. If I do not remember completely incorrectly, Stortinget has already given its consent to that in the treatment we have had this autumn. It has been supported by the Christian People's Party. And I think it's important that this assessment comes as early as possible in education, so that students as an assessor don't have anything to do there, get a message about it quite early. Whether or not there is a need to set up a national register for this, I would like to reserve myself a little bit against it. I actually have the confidence in the colleges that they can assess this, and I actually think they're doing a good job in that area too.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e356	In a previous debate this year in the Stortinget, it was claimed that the school policy of the Centre Party is a rather pale version of the Labour Party and largely the same course. When we now have the government and government parties three times in a row, can it be thought that the representative Lyngstad will form a little closer cooperation with the Right also in the school policy? It is, as has been said, very good in Norwegian school today, but there are also a lot of things that need to be done better. The representative Grete Knudsen showed in a previous article several OECD reports that show that we have a bit to go. We've seen statistics and reporters in the media that show that many teachers don't have the necessary skills, especially in the youth sphere. Will the Christian People's Party stop being a pink edition of the Workers' Party in school policy? Will the Christian People's Party now be able to decide to hold a line and enter into a cooperation with the Right to raise the quality of the school, to strengthen competence and scope in key subjects such as Norwegian, mathematics and natural sciences? Will the Christian People's Party be involved in increasing the flexibility Lyngstad mentions in his post, where we give both the good and the weak students the opportunity to develop through a custom training? The future will require a lot, and I feel that the Christian People's Party has gone through too much that they want to do, with the result that we don't get to do the most important things that we have to do. I hope Lyngstad will be able to give an answer that confirms this – not to please me, but to help Norwegian school in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e367	I think the representative Løvik misunderstands the Christian People's Party's school policy if he perceives it so that we don't focus on quality in school. The Christian People's Party has done so all along. But at the same time, we have said that if students and young people are to get good results and a good learning situation, the learning environment must also be involved. Therefore, the Christian People's Party does not see any contrast between a school that focuses on quality and a school that focuses on caring for the children and overall development. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to focus on equivalent training, regardless of geography, social background, economics, etc. So a commitment to an equivalent training within the unity school tradition is actually a good Christian People's Party tradition. I also believe, as the representative Løvik pointed out, that a future should focus specifically on the upper secondary school and the challenges facing you there. To the extent that Right wants to focus on an equivalent training, quality and youth challenges, the Christian People's Party is ready to be able to talk and cooperate with the Right and other parties in the Stortinget that will focus on these things.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e376	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e379	Politics is the art of possibility – although sometimes it may seem that political parties can succeed in getting an impact on the impossible at five to twelve o’clock. There is reason to assume that we have a very tight economic situation when considering the budget for the KUF area this year. Of course, you can regret it if you think that you would prefer to be in a situation with unlimited access to resources. But the option would have been, if it had not been agreed to pursue such a tight economic policy, to put the problems ahead of the Norwegian community, both in terms of education and research policy, and in terms of all other areas of policy. Therefore, there is no solution to choose the short-term perspective of spending more money than there is reasonable coverage for this year, hoping that the economic cycle will improve until next year. It is necessary to pursue an economic policy that allows the Norwegian society to have, in the long term, a education and research policy that is forward-looking and sustainable. Rune Schlagstad’s book ‘National strategists’, published in the autumn, has triggered a useful and important societal debate. It poses the question of the social development we have had in Norway in the last hundred years, and in particular in the last 50 years, too much of a technocratic approach to society and an over-reliance on the possibilities of social planning in terms of programming the ideal society. There is probably good reason to give Professor Slagstad the right idea that the Norwegian Labour Party, which has shaped most of this period of Norwegian policy, has been under this very over-reliance on social planning opportunities to programme society. I heard quite clearly the echo of that in the committee leader's introduction to the debate today. It is not bad to say about engineers if they are used for what they can, but it is hardly advisable to put an engineering perspective on the community and on the development of the community. Today, when we are faced with serious quality problems in Norwegian school, which have been commendably illustrated during the last days in the country's largest newspaper, and which all parties are involved in the committee position, it is precisely because we have been overloading the school with goals that the school has very modest opportunities to achieve. We have put in a premise that the school is primarily a tool for changing society in ways that are thought to be useful. If you put so many purposes into school, it goes without saying that the school's ability to fulfil its primary purpose, that of learning for the young, must be harmful. I also think that there is a strange approach to the issue of the quality challenges facing Norwegian school today in terms of the content of key learning processes and subjects, focusing primarily on the indoor climate and the state of buildings. We can quickly agree that both are important, but the quality challenge for the school is, of course, not primarily in this area. The right has fought consistently, including the last year in connection with the major issues we have been dealing with here in the United Kingdom, the Training Act and the Communication on Special Education, so that the most important things should come first and that the school should be better able to solve its primary task, namely to offer all children and young people a learning process adapted to their assumptions – and the assumptions we all know span a wide register – and to give them the same opportunity as either their equipment is theoretical in nature, practical in nature or aesthetic in nature. The unfortunate thing about the one-school concept is that it has been easy to have a magical effect on the idea of eradicating diversity for the sake of equality. There's no greater equality in society by keeping all children physically together for 10 years or 13 years. There won't be any greater equality in a society by insisting that there should be one central government school that everyone has to be forced into. There is a lot of research that shows that societies with a completely different school tradition than our Norwegians, and that have had a completely different liberal view of the freedom to make schools on parental terms, have a higher degree of solidarity and community than Norwegian society has. A little mention of the somewhat heated debate on the right to a Muslim school in Oslo: It is interesting that in our neighbouring country Sweden and Denmark, which have had and practised such a right for a long time, several research projects have been carried out that show that the integration of children belonging to life-vision minorities is better achieved if parents are given care of the school environment itself. It works better when children come up against childhood, simply because it has given them a security and an identity that makes it easier to integrate into the big society. In this perspective, I believe that the resistance of the Workers' Party and, in part, the SV to private schools has an antiquarian character – and especially when it comes to the suspension of a new grant scheme, which the Stortinget has been treated for some time back, states that it must be accepted that Norway has signed international conventions that oblige us to accept the rights of life-vision minorities, but then in the next moment it adds that it does not mean that financial support should be given to such schools. The Labour Party has taken the consequences of this in its draft budget. But it means, as a practical consequence, that if these schools were to consist of the Labour Party's policies, they would become socially stratified schools, which they have never been in Norway, because it would only be parents with good advice who would have an opportunity to send their children to such schools. It is Right’s view that the Norwegian school has a great potential for improvement. But the potential for improvement will require politicians to define the primary objective of the school, namely learning, in a clear and clear way and give schools much greater freedom than they have today, to figure out for themselves how to organise themselves, to find out for themselves which educational methods are the best in each class situation. I believe in a school policy with clear, unambiguous objectives and the highest possible degree of freedom both for each school and for each teacher. It is also the safest way to make the teaching profession more attractive than it is today, to give teachers greater freedom and greater responsibility. At the same time, however, we must make clearer demands on the professional competence of teachers, especially in the youth sector. Finally, a few words about research and higher education. Right-wing priorities in its draft budget this year – as in previous years – this area, because it is where the challenges are most easily seen in today’s Norwegian system. We are not addressing our primary proposals, as the Storting has now reached its final budgetary decision, and the conciliation reached between the Right and the Advance Party and the three government parties has drawn up a framework. Within these frameworks, the right is satisfied with the profile given to the budget, because it gives a clear direction to the priority of research under the Ministry of Church, Education and Research, i.e.: basic research, and it is particularly gratifying that in the year’s budget, a rise in basic medical research is being made, which has long been poor in Norway. Finally, let me also point to the five Roman number decisions on page 101 in the committee setting, which, in my opinion, are all good decisions that will give greater flexibility than what we have in today's Norwegian system. In particular, I am pleased that the Right has been fully impressed by its desire to wind up today's very heavy and bureaucratic approval system for textbooks in school.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e411	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e414	The Christian People's Party agrees with the Right that knowledge is a primary task in school – and knowledge is a broad concept. Right wants to pursue a targeted knowledge policy. The words «knowledge» and «knowledge» are used in the note, in particular on the development of a common national cultural heritage. Does the Right believe that the school also needs to use resources on experience and various activities to make this cultural heritage its own for the students, and that social learning and education are also a task for the school? The right is involved in proposing new basic courses in Reform 94, both in media communication and in commercial subjects. Can't the Right wait for the review to come, where we're going to review the whole reform, when it's just a few months before we get a big message on this? Such proposals have not been made until now, because a constant wait has been waiting to see everything in a context. How does the Right regard the entire broader structure of Reform 94, when they now want to change parts of it?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e421	The answer to the first question from the representative Stråtveit is clear and simple yes. Of course, Right agrees that knowledge is a wide-ranging concept, that the learning process has many dimensions in it, and that there is no good learning in any subject in this world without the dimension of experience, and without the teacher being able to appeal both to the mind of the students, to their emotional life and to their personality. The answer to that is absolutely clear yes. However, the right does not share the long-standing view of Norwegian pedagogical thinking, that there is a contradiction between acquiring knowledge, even exact knowledge in exact subjects, and this experience and formation process. In our opinion, there are two sides to the same thing, and that's exactly what makes the teaching profession an exciting challenge: being able to take care of all the dimensions of the learning process. To the second, more concrete question, about new basic courses, the answer is that there are so many clear requests from users of Norwegian secondary education at this point, and they have been there for so many years and with so much growing impatience, that the Right has come to the conclusion that there is no reason to wait any longer on this point. There is no reason to expect an overall evaluation of Reform 94, because there is sufficient evidence that there is a concrete need for Norwegian labour, and that is the need for us as politicians to meet.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e430	This was a violent attack at the elementary school, perhaps the strongest attack I've heard in a long time — the single school then defined as a school as a common meeting place for all children, where they have a common curriculum to deal with. That's the definition of the unit school. This was a violent attack on it, and the serious thing is that this attack comes from a person who is obviously not familiar with Norwegian school. And I'll explain why. Norwegian school is based on the curriculum, where up to 40 pst. may be a local optional substance. The school has great freedom in choosing a pedagogical method, and Inge Wohnung presents it as if this were not the case. But that is the actual situation — a large proportion of local voluntary substances and a great deal of freedom for the individual teacher in the choice of pedagogics. No pay also affected this with quality in school, and tried to ridicule what some of us are concerned about, namely the learning environment itself, and that it also has something to do with the physical conditions – indoor climate, real buildings, etc. He talked about quality without defining what he put into the concept of quality. I would like to have Inge Wohnning's comments on that. For us, quality has something to do with the competence of teachers – among others. continuing training. It has something to do with recruiting teachers – what kind of teachers we recruit. It also has something to do with equipment in each school. This has to do with quality, but not in one of these areas is Right on proposals to improve the school in these areas. My question about Inge Wohnung is: Wouldn't it be natural for the Right to support the kind of action that goes directly on quality?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e441	I have a great sense of the quality of the school buildings, both aesthetically and physically, but I actually have an even greater sense of the quality of the school. And now, not to talk about things that, according to the representative, Reikvam, I don't know, Norwegian school, so let me stick to the university level, which I have at least some knowledge of. It has occurred to me that in Norway we spend enormous resources on land and just on building quality, compared to almost all other countries in Europe and all other universities in Europe that I have visited, while it is quite thoughtful that many places where ten times as many Nobel Prize winners are produced in the various sciences that we do in Norway, the external framework is significantly less concentrated and significantly less money spent on it than what we do in Norway. I'm not going to pass it on to primary school, but I think it's pretty thoughtful, because it shows a different approach, that it's not the external, physical framework that's the primary one in terms of what you get triggered by human qualities in the activity within the walls. It's actually the human quality that's the primary, and the external quality that's the secondary. So a little remark to the school: I never actually have so little bearing in Norwegian school, among other things. by virtue of the fact that I have had four children who have passed through it, I myself have taught at all levels in Norwegian school – it is a few years ago in time, and I think I actually have about as well prepared the curriculum as the representative of Reikvam has. The difference is simply that we might read with a little bit of different glasses. I'm not attacking the ‘unit school’ — if it's the common, neutral name of the school we have. But I'm attacking a certain school thinking that politicians have put on the school, and that's not something that's shared by the majority of teachers, parents or students in Norwegian school, but that's just the social engineering, in a kind of light Stalinist version.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e452	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e455	The budgetary process this autumn is a practical response to the possible art of politics. The Centre Party shall be responsible for the budgetary results which were negotiated by the Centre Parties, the Right and the Advance Party, including in this framework area. However, I recognise that the Government's original proposal had given major appropriations in certain areas, including: the school leave scheme. That being said, I would like to stress that, after all, SFO is not part of the training obligation, but a supervision system for the children. The committee leader's suggestion that the centre party has turned around in its thinking here is directly wrong. The centre party has never intended for the SFO to be an extension to be a full-day school. On the other hand, we strongly believed that the game should be at the heart of the 6-year-olds' setup. The budget adopted today can be characterised as an increased investment for Education Norway. Higher education and research have seen a significant increase in relation to the current year. «A change of pace for the research», said CEO Christian Hambro of the Research Council of the magazine Research when the State Budget was presented. ‘... better than fear,’ said the President-in-Office of the University of Bergen, Kirsti Koch Christensen. The Government continues to aim at increasing research efforts in Norway at OECD level. This year's proposal is a good start. And the Center Party will highlight in particular the importance of basic research. As case rapporteur for the chapters on fisheries research, I am pleased with the government's significant commitment to this field, which represents our largest export article, a sustainable one. I also refer you to the Minister for Fisheries' posts later today. The centre party is very pleased that the regional research institutions have been given a boost. It is a very important incentive for building skills in general and in the regions in particular. The majority of the Committee has highlighted the importance of cooperation between research institutions and higher education institutions. Similarly, the bulk of the population has highlighted the importance of decentralised higher education provision, so that people can gain greater skills where they live. This is particularly important for women in the districts. In the same context, I would like to mention the regional economic areas proposed by the Government and endorsed by the Stortinget. This demonstrates the importance of education and skills building for initiatives, entrepreneurship and industrial development, not least in order to raise small and medium-sized enterprises. I started at the top of the education chain in my post today. But without a basic foundation in the training, we do not get a good effect from the investment at the higher level of education. The centre party belongs to the majority of those who highlight the single school as the guiding principle of primary education, in which all pupils are required to adapt to their own qualifications. This is demanding, but it must not hinder the achievement of the goal, namely a school that gives the individual feeling of belonging and acceptance in an inclusive environment that has the ability to develop tolerance and respect. This requires a well-schooled teacher’s loss, which is provided with the possibility of continuing training in more than one school. This year's budget follows up the L97 training plan, with about a quarter. Seventy-two million. kr to quality development. Cooperation and ability to empathise are qualities such as social and work life demand and that the school must strive to teach students. I believe these aspects need to be at the bottom of national school assessment systems. Clear signals have long been received from schools and municipalities that there is not enough support for the school in specifically organised training. Therefore, Stortinget has decided that the resources should be moved closer to the users, cf. the treatment of St.meld No. 23 for 1997-98 in the spring. This will happen when municipalities are allocated more PP service posts, by redeploying centres of competence in the coming years. However, it is important that centres of excellence continue to retain acute competence, which can have a good impact on users. Here I would like to draw up one example, the competence centre for speech problems. I am afraid that the majority's clear remark about co-location from Søndre Land to Bredtvet can lead to the loss of highly qualified professional personnel in speech flow/strainage, as the strongest competence in this field is in Søndre Land. When people have to commute approx. 25 miles per day. Today, it goes without saying that it may be difficult to maintain the point competence within this field. I refer you to letters from the trustees sent to the committee yesterday. In line with our decision to increase, a three-year practical competence development programme for school leaders and the PP service will provide school and individual users with more targeted help. This is a very important measure. Furthermore, it is good that the Ministry has followed up Stortingen’s comment on a conversion unit that will work at least until 1 August 2000. I expect the best interests of employees to be properly respected, in line with public authorities' legislation. The school should promote the creative forces of children and young people. The time when the knowledge institution was supposed to only happen when the facts were reproduced is over. Of course, basic knowledge must be in place, but students' own efforts and ideas need to be better able to grow. The importance of project-oriented education and learning is a good tool in this way. The centre will have creative schools where new learning methods are used, not least information and communication technologies will be central. After visiting some primary schools lately, I would say that this is well started, not least the impressions of the new Short School on the West Toten were very positive. There they built a school after the L97 reading, and the result is great satisfaction to users at all levels. I think it is worth highlighting that there is a great deal of effort being made by teachers and staff in the process of introducing a new curriculum, L97. Further training with Reform 94 has been through an in-depth evaluation carried out by several research institutions, and the ministry is now in the process of reporting on the topic. The centre party is concerned that 16-year-olds’ offers should be well adapted to society’s needs, but most importantly, each young person feels that he/she is receiving training appropriate to his/her needs and objectives, while at the same time providing opportunities for further education and skills development. In particular, attention must also be paid here to adapting training in order to ensure integration. In addition, I refer to the setting of quality development in secondary education. With regard to the proposal that came from the majority on new basic courses in commercial subjects and the media, I would just say that enquiries I received from professional environments yesterday were about whether there was a new practice The Stortinget had started, by proposing this now without both thorough consultation and review. The evaluation of reform 94 must take account of the forthcoming reform of continuing education and training. Further training must be prepared to become one of the most important actors in lifelong learning. Adult education and assessment of real skills are important keywords here. Secondary schools need to be further developed as resource centres. I have noticed that the Workers' Party and SV again criticise the government's follow-up and responsible budgeting of the private schools. The Central Party believes that the long traditions that private schools in our country represent deserve such predictability. We believe that these schools are a good supplement to public school. So a little bit about the Church: the budget for the Church has got a good increase in an otherwise tight arrangement. The central party is aware that there are nevertheless significant financial problems, not least in the temporary employment post. It's totally unacceptable and directly offensive to the female clergy that there's no substitute for maternity leave. The Committee calls for a church economic proposition to be presented, with a view to a full review of all areas. This is in line with the wishes of the Council of Churches and the elected trustees. At my discretion, it would be totally wrong to start taking away the Information Service's fund for general operation. It is more correct to give a complete assessment of this area in this proposition. Otherwise, I would like to point out that the Church must strive to have greater participation in the selection of the council. It's too bad today, with 2-3 pst. participation in elections. We don't get an open, inclusive church without the members getting engaged. As rapporteur for, among others: The cathedral of Nidarus, I refer you to the positive note that an overall committee is behind it. The cathedral of Nidarus is highlighted as a unique church and culture institution for our country. In addition, the organisation has a unique competence for restoration, which can also benefit other medieval buildings. The restoration won the “Cultural Memory of the Year” prize and in addition the International Rafael Prize was awarded the Restoration.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e510	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e513	I note that Marit Tingelstad believes it is more important that the private schools have predictable framework conditions than that parents with children in the SFO should have predictability of the offer and that the parental payment becomes affordable. It's pretty easy to hear. The line shift that has now been in the Center Party in particular, and in the centre parties in general, must be the lookout for the Center Party, and it must be the lookout for the Norwegian School, because it is seldom we hear the representative Marit Tingelstad as uninspired as she was today. There's been an amazing change from the last period in which the Central Party was the party that was at the forefront of fighting for more money for the public school. That fight is gone now, the fight existed only when they were in opposition. In May 1997, the representative Jørgen Holte stood on this platform and criticized the majority, the Labour Party and the Right, strongly because we would only give 150 million. kr extra for teaching materials under Reform 97. They would have $225 million. kr distributed by 75 million. kr per. years for three years. Where are the funds now? In this setting, the Centre and the Centre are releasing public schools and public social systems in general. They reduce support for SFOs, primary schools, secondary education, kindergartens, care for the elderly, etc. Instead, they enter into unconditional support for private and personal schemes such as cash support and private schools. I have no question for the representative Tingelstad. We just record that they have now joined forces with the Advance Party and the Right, and we can do nothing but complain that it has happened and say that it was an alternative. Had it been possible for the Central Party to have four little neighbors on the cash support and come to a meeting, we could have avoided the powerful cuts that are now being made within the public society systems, which we once stood up for.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e524	Although my post might seem a little inspiring, it was at least an engaged, young representative from the Workers' Party who was very inspired to attack the Center Party for the nth time. I think I have to repeat a little bit. When the Center Party is attacked for not investing in public schools, we can go back two years – to December 1996. What happened then? Then this happened: the majority, at the center parties, pushed forward a municipal economy that gave NOK 5 billion more to that sector. Well, it has to be a very high point in itself. How would it have been with the school leisure system and other things if it hadn't happened two years ago? I would like to remind you that the school leave scheme, as I said in my post, is not part of the training obligation, but it would not have been against me if we had had more money for it. So did I. Then I got a note showing that when the Workers' Party put in government, there was no price adjustment for the school leisure system from 1994 onwards. It was a small increase because there were several users, but there was no price adjustment. There was no discussion about the amount, it was just firm. Going to the frontal attack now, after the Labour Party's unwillingness to join in and find solutions together with the center parties, I think I'm quite special to say it like that. Moreover, I must say, as my parliamentary leader has said to the newspaper, that the attacks on our going in that direction fall a little on stone's floor when one thinks about the advances of Jagland at the National Labour Party meeting, where he said that it was absolutely possible to cooperate with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e535	In June this year, the majority at Stortinget adopted a very large recalibration of specially trained staff employed by centres of excellence throughout the country on the grounds that the offer should be closer to users – an excellent idea, but not entirely according to the taste of the Advance Party. This conversion would have to mean a change in working conditions and a change of residence for quite a number of families around the country. It is utopian to believe that the transfer of 300 posts will take place without moving for many. Now we hear from the pulpit that the representative Tingelstad is concerned about the point competence of the speech centre in South Africa, and she is probably right. But the note on co-location is likely to retain as much competence as possible on Bredtvet. Does Tingelstad feel that there is greater cause for concern about the point skills you possess in Southern countries than about the point skills you possess anywhere else in the country where there are such centers? And does the representative Tingelstad think that those who really need this competence, people with some very large handicaps, can get this in the municipal PP service?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e543	It is true that the Progress Party and the Centre Party have different views on how specifically organised training should be at school. It was a large majority who decided to relocate our skills, by getting more PP positions in the municipalities, which have been in demand for a long time. And that's not the area I have any worries about. Then the representative Evje came to the conclusion that I might have misunderstood something when I pointed out that the competence that is today in Søndre Land is to be moved to Oslo, and that would lead to a stronger competence, as Evje perceived it. It worries me. For it is Søndre Land with its old Halmrast school that has most of the positions in the field of speech flow and stuttering. They have more than Bredtvet has. What I have a certain concern about is that the teachers who are going to move there and have to drive 25-26, maybe several miles from where they live, to Oslo, will try, which is quite natural, to find other jobs that do not flow to the users in the same way. We all got a letter yesterday, it's not from any management or anything like that, it's from the clubs, from the LO State and from the Norwegian Teachers' Team, which points out exactly this. What worries me is that the majority may have lowered their feet, so that we can't take care of just this competence.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e557	The representative of Tingelstad used a lot of his articles to talk about centres of expertise and special education. When it comes to this matter, it seems -- unfortunately -- that Right gets the right. The transfer of resources from the centre of competence to the PP service agreed by the majority before the summer will lead to a dwindling of competence. Very many competent workers disappear from this system. There are individuals who need help from competent staff, who are suffering from the fact that we have now talked about this system, against the centre of competence's will. This also has a little to do with integration in the Norwegian school. The integration of elephants in the municipal school has largely, in at least 95 pst. of cases, our positive. But some cases show that we may have gone too far here, as we did when it came to the HVPU reform. We may have managed to physically integrate some of these people. But have we also managed to integrate them socially? I think it's hard to answer an absolute yes. Therefore, my question is this: With the legal cases in which the municipalities come into being because parents of these students require a custom offer for their children, and where parents win each time, can there not be a reason for the Center Party, since they have programmed that one should provide such an offer to some of the elephants, to reconsider the proposal that Right-wing is making when we deal with this matter? And this proposal reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government to appoint a selection to make a broad assessment of the training of children, young people and adults with special needs, in the light of developments following the integration of the special sphere of education into the primary school in 1975.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e571	The Workers' Party's claim that there has been a shift in school policy today falls on stone floor when we hear the posts from the right parties. We in the Center Party are for an integrated school. We are in order for the school to have room for everyone, but then we need to channel resources, reinforcements and competences closer to where the user is, i.e. on the learning venue in the classrooms. We're stuck to that in the Center Party. But I'm going to give Right that it's still necessary to have these additional centres of expertise and that they have to deliver competence to the users. It's not like I want to go back and say that we're going to have our own schools for students with a lot of problems. With regard to the proposal to which the Right referred, I believe that we had a review of it when we discussed St.meld. No 23 for 1997-98. In addition, regular status reports from the education offices are sent to the department. The Ministry will monitor quality development continuously, so I believe that this has been done in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e580	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e583	I want to start with a quote: ‘A central government will therefore focus more on education and competence. This investment is a long-term investment in people and quality of life, and improves our ability to meet challenges and transitions in the next millennium.’ This is a quote from the Declaration of Adults, which is the political basis of the Government. One shall have both a magnifying and a very good will to believe that this budget is an arrangement for more investment in education. Nor should it surprise anyone, when you know that this budget is a compromise between the government parties and the right parties. Experience has shown that this does not provide a good basis for high levels of investment in the public sector. We're not going to dramatize that it's now cut 328 million. kr of the earmarked grants. But the serious thing is that these cuts are a clear signal of a change in course, because the cuts come exclusively within the public education system. Private schools, primary schools, secondary schools and private higher education are sheltered for this cut, so it only affects the public school. It is the serious thing, and it is the new thing in this education policy. We have a public education system that is under pressure, and this is marked in many ways. The Children's Ombudsman has estimated that EUR 15 billion is needed to enable school buildings to meet the requirements of the Environmental Health Protection Regulation. This has something to do with the learning environment. The right is trying to ridicule the fact that indoor climate and good school buildings are important to the quality of school, and I think that's quite unreasonable. Building proper school buildings and laying the foundations for municipalities having the opportunity to create a good physical learning environment are important for improving Norwegian schools. We also see an increasing trend towards the closure of schools. In recent years, from 1986 to today, there have been regular closures of between 40 and 50 schools. The new thing about this situation that we are now seeing is that there is an increasing tendency for schools to be closed down. We also see that the grounds for the closures are different than before. Now the difficult economy, the poor economy in the municipality, is heavily used as a reason for dropping out of schools. We see a progressive increase in the proportion of equity, parents have to pay a larger share. It's not just camp schools. We also see that in many municipalities parents pay for teaching material. After the budget cut that is now in place, the share that parents are going to pay under the school leisure scheme will also increase considerably. We see a blooming of private schools, and that's a new foundation they're being created on. Now it is often bad economics and the fact that public schools do not keep goals, which are used to justify the creation of more private schools — that is, a new pressure on public schools. Quality has become a slogan in the school debate. It is difficult to find evidence of quality measures in this budget. In our proposal, we have prioritised a minimum number of hours in each class to ensure the possibility of sharing groups and more teachers in each class. We have given priority to reducing the number of students in youth from 30 to 28. We have prioritised better continuing training measures for teaching staff. It is important to note that within the limited frameworks allocated to us, we have been able to prioritise this. We're increasing the investment framework of equipment, teaching equipment. In the compromise, you cut the last 50 million. kr, as Stortinget has previously said, to provide municipalities with equipment to finance them. So finally, there's a small error in the setting on page 41, and it's for centres of expertise. It says "the closure" of Torshov. It's not about shutting Torshov down, it's called the "destruction".
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e612	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e615	The representative of Rikvam was very brief in his post in private schools. The party considers private schools to be a very good complement to the public. Private schools serve as a good corrigendum to educational and organisational development in schools. It is with pleasure that we note that private schools are becoming increasingly popular and that people's freedom of choice is increasing. However, popularity should also be a strong warning to public schools that public schools are no longer good enough and that they do not provide the quality you want. The answer from the socialist parties is that the framework conditions and working conditions of the competitor will be destroyed. Under the hood. 240 item 70 has reduced the appropriations by 230 million in its proposal. kr. SV cuts even more – with dramatic 328 million. kr, or equivalent approx. one third of this total allocation proposal. This is about ten times more than both of these batches cut at the same post last year. In private higher education, there are also significant cuts from the two parties — from the Workers' Party above 44 million. kr and from SV above 60 mill. kr. These cuts are also significantly higher than proposed in the previous budgetary procedure. My specific question to SV is: What will the consequences of these cuts be? 240 item 70, which is tenfold and represents one third of the total budget, be? What's the background for cutting so dramatically? In concrete terms, which schools do you want to lay down, or do you want to take the cuts with the cheese mat? And finally, SV often claims to be the party of tolerance. Why, then, can we not tolerate the fact that some people do not feel at home within the public, unified school system?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e630	If the representative Knudsen had attended the class, he would have come with us where we would cut for private schools. The grant scheme for private schools is a matter that we dealt with not very long ago. We had a fairly clear arrangement, which we didn't get a majority for here in the hall. We wanted to make a clear distinction between schools. We have schools that are established on a pedagogical basis, which we consider to be a need, for example the Steiner Schools, which we believe could be a complement to the public schools. In our arrangement, as the representative Knudsen knows, we had a grant rate for those who are at today's level. In the case of some other private schools that we don't see as a supplement, which does not represent any alternative either pedagogically or professionally, we don't see any reason why they should have a grant as high as they have today. So we had proposals for lower rates of subsidies for that type of school. So one more thing: we see no reason for any private schools to get a higher grant than the county councils get to run their schools – I think about the gymnasiums. That's why, with the scheme adopted by the majority, they get a grant rate that doesn't get any of the courses we have in public school. We want to cut that. But, and it's very important to be aware of, by the cut that the majority here are making in the school and leisure system, we're probably also getting a rather dramatic increase in the self-payment of parents within a public system. And then we'd rather that those who choose private solutions should take a cut in appropriations, rather than those who choose a public solution.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e639	The Christian People's Party agrees with the Socialist Left that the public school system is fundamental to ensuring children and young people the same rights and opportunities for education. But at the same time, we also believe that private schools can be a good alternative or a good supplement, professional, educational, life-seeking or geographical. It will also be a natural thing in a democratic society. The right to set up and operate private schools is also a general prerequisite for both the UN Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Now we know that these international conventions do not oblige us to grant grants to private schools, but it is nevertheless an important prerequisite for establishing and running private schools in our country if these schools are not just to be an offer for children and young people with particularly strong parents. We know that the Socialist Left Party is going in to reduce the grant. My question is: how can SV propose to reduce the subsidy rates for private schools when there is no majority in the Stortinget to amend the private school law? My other question is related to a private Christian secondary school at Helgeland, Kristen Secondary School at Nesna. Many of the students come from around the district. This school is absolutely a good supplement to the public school. It is an important contribution to the Nesna school site, and is also an important contribution to ensuring better education opportunities for young people by allowing many young people, by choosing this school, not to move on to a hibernation. Have I understood correctly the Socialist Left Party that this is a school that, at the party's suggestion, would be reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e648	Yes, it may well be understood that the school in line with some other schools – a lot of schools – with our scheme would receive a lower grant than what they are receiving today. Here, for example, a school on the Helgeland coast was mentioned, and it is located in an area where it meets the needs of the local population. I would like to remind you that in many cases some of these private schools that become established – this year we may be talking about high school in particular – are forcing public schools, making it more difficult to maintain a good and broad range of public secondary schools. We can give examples of this, and we don't think it's a good development that a user of private schools to make it harder for the public schools in the area, and then, as I said, I'm talking about high school. It is clear that with our budget line, as I said before, it will be less subsidies, and there will be higher school fees if the school is to be maintained. It becomes a natural consequence of this, and we have to say that. We have to say that because we've got a budget settlement in the Stortingen that reduces the framework for the education sector by 328 million. kr. Someone chooses to cut this in public schools. We choose to take a larger share of the cut in private schools, and say that those who choose private schemes have to pay a greater share than what they do today. The alternative is for those who choose public schools and school leisure schemes to pay more.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e656	I must first correct a manifest misunderstanding. I don't find anything ridiculous or comical about people interested in school buildings and indoor climates. On the other hand, I have tried to point out a problem that I thought most people with a little experience from Norwegian school reality know, namely that there can be a good learning climate in a school with a fragile external framework, and there can be a very deleterious learning climate in a school with a perfect external framework. And some of us prioritize the first over the second option, more complicated it's not. I believe that the representative Rikvam has also made similar experiences on the way and will therefore have a certain understanding of the view that the climate in the importance of school reality can be even more important than the climate in the physical sense. So to the question of private versus public. I heard between the lines and maybe also on the lines of the representative of the Requams post that he bases some kind of financial calculation on this which assumes that there is some kind of net extra burden on society that there are private schools and that there are students going to private schools. It is a reasoning that cannot possibly be correct and that cannot possibly be based on serious economic considerations. If you were to go into this socio-economic assessment, there is good reason to believe that when things are operated on a private basis than when they are operated on a public basis, there are less social costs in most other areas. But I just wanted to warn myself against laying the kind of premise at the root of what is really an ideological rather than an economically justified position. And then I'd like to interpellerate the representative Rikvam on the issue of life-vision minorities, if SV really stands for the point of admitting life-vision minorities right to their own schools, but they have to pay it in full, that is. only rich parents should have the opportunity to use them.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e663	Our principal position on private schools came to light in the debate we had on the rates of subsidies, and the debate and positions we took there should be known to the representative of Inge Wohnung. In order to repeat cards, for some private schools, our scheme would have resulted in a smaller state grant. I say some, a little dependent on the basis for them. Also, life - vision schools created by religious minorities and by others would have received a somewhat lower grant than what they receive after today's system. That's the actual ratio. But then I want to say one more thing. The fact that we cut as much as 328 million. kr in the private schools this time, is the result of the budgetary agreement, in which No Wage and Right have been involved, and which has given 328 million to the education sector. kr in smaller frames. We have chosen to deal with these frameworks, and we have chosen to try to cut where possible without hitting the public schools, without imposing on parents increased self-payment in the public education sector, and to maintain the provision of quality improvement measures. So finally this with a good learning environment. I had hoped that we could agree that a good learning environment in general depends on a good indoor climate and good premises. The Children's Ombudsman has pointed this out, and I recommend that the representative read the Children's Ombudsman's report.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e674	The President did not record that the representative made proposals in his main post – perhaps he should do so now?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e677	Well, thank you. I am referring to our proposal and also to the joint proposals we have with the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e682	Rolf Rikvam has then taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President considers it inappropriate to interrupt the meeting between an intervention and the subsequent change of line, and the President will therefore cancel the meeting now. The meeting will be set at 5 p.m. 15th First speaker is Helene Falch Fladmark.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e700	The decision continues to deal with case No. 1 on agenda No 31.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e706	This budget harvest has been special in many ways. The economic situation has led the Storting to adopt a budget that is tighter than in many years. The intention is, as you know, to stabilise the Norwegian economy in the first place, so that the unnaturally high interest rate can decrease. When the majority agreed that the tightening would happen without any increase in taxes and taxes, the cuts in public expenditure had to be painful, which we in this committee also had to work with. Of course, there has also been a lot of focus in the autumn on the student loan rate. When a political majority, consisting of the Labour Party and the Right, introduced market interest rates on student loans, it was against the Left's voice. When the interest rate has gone to the worst, we see that this scheme has led to problems for many young people in the start-up phase. Now there is no majority to reintroduce policy-driven interest rates, and the Loan Fund is therefore working too fully to put in place a fixed-interest scheme for those who want it. But the most important thing is that interest rates go down. Good funding for studies is a prerequisite for everyone to have a real equal right to education. The student group has changed a lot in recent years, and will do so even more in the future when more adults are given the opportunity to continue their training. This poses challenges for the support system. It is therefore reasonable that the Government has set up a sample to assess how the support system can meet these challenges. As important as good financial instruments are good welfare offers. Especially for those who choose to study in Oslo, housing costs represent a burdensome extra cost. Stiff-legged rules have led to no housing being built for Oslo students for many years. It is therefore gratifying that the majority of the Committee now opens up to amend the rules to meet the needs of housing in Oslo. The left is pleased that, despite tightening up, the majority has been able to give priority to higher education and basic research. It is precisely in these areas that the basis for the country’s need for a level playing field is laid. I would like to point out the importance of basic research in a long-term strategy to build up general competence. This is why the professional community also sees it as positive that there is a particular focus on basic research and funding for free projects. It is particularly gratifying that there is a commitment to basic medical research, which has long needed a boost. The Left is pleased that the Government is taking seriously the challenges facing research Norway by providing a major communication on research in winter. The left is concerned that the effort on information and communication technologies must be continued. I am therefore pleased that the Government's business-oriented IT plan and the paper on IT competence are being followed up in next year's budget in a regional perspective. At the same time, it is important that education and research in information technology work in conjunction with other subjects and that the existing professional environments have good growth conditions. I am therefore pleased that the Committee is in favour of the Foundation for Computer Science having access to new premises in a new information technology building, in conjunction with, among others. SINTEF, in the Gaustadbeck valley in Oslo. In this area, a very strong environment of expertise has developed over many years, with fruitful interaction between the University, private enterprises and research foundations in several disciplines. It is important that this environment evolves further. As important as building up competences in new technologies, it is up to society to debate the implications of this technology. Technological developments give us ethical, democratic and political dilemmas on a continuous basis. The left therefore looks forward to the Technology Council coming into operation next year. The Council will have an important role to play in having a sound critical attitude to be a body of competence for different social institutions and by being a link between society and technological actors. Left places the decisive emphasis on the Church being open and inclusive. This is precisely why there has to be a continuous debate on issues that many people experience as heavy and difficult. In recent years, the place of homofiles in the Church has been a battle theme in particular. This is an important debate. The open Church Group has a very important role to play in the dialogue that the Church Meeting has previously entered into, and I would also like to point out the important support function that the organisation has in relation to each individual. The left is therefore pleased that the Group's resources are also secured in the next year's budget. We are in the middle of the important process of finding solutions and arrangements that will make knowledge and learning a part of life. We know that knowledge is deeply invested both for individual citizens and for society as a whole. At the same time, we see that knowledge is becoming perhaps the most important competitive factor internationally. Unfortunately, the danger that only the diet-benefit aspect of learning and knowledge will count in the future is imminent. The left will emphasize that knowledge and learning are primarily a good thing for the individual. The freedom given by knowledge at all times must be guaranteed in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e727	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e730	An important part of the work to be done by the Ministry of Education and Research in the coming year is to provide a key message such as: shall contain the design of a national primary school assessment system. Some of the proposals launched in this context include intensified inspections of schools with unannounced visits of inspectors in classrooms, local ranking of schools, publication of results and multiple screening tests and tests. The Group of the Party of European Socialists welcomes these proposals. These are proposals that we have long favoured. It is regrettable that very few municipalities are systematically working to evaluate the quality of the school. Increased use of testing, quality control and inspection systems has been introduced in many countries, including: in England, Scotland, France, the Netherlands and the United States — and on its way into Sweden. In almost all areas of society, there is a continuous evaluation of resource use versus results. The school is clearly one of the most important areas of society, yet quality control has been almost absent in this field. The left, in its opening remarks, has said something such as ensuring the quality of education, and in Chapter 200 it has been said that the notification is an important basis for the quality of Norwegian school and quality assurance work. My question to the Left is: Is this expression of empty phrases, or can it be interpreted as meaning that the Left will signal that you are in favour of the proposals that have been made? And if you're not, what quality assurance options will you outline? I do not ask for a detailed answer, but assume that there are opinions on this issue, as the debate has been going on in the professional environments for some time.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e741	I share the view of the Progress Party that quality development in school is important, but I think I have a slightly different view on how this can happen. On the left, we are concerned that the school should be able to develop on its own basis, and part of the positions of the representative Knudsen said here, I believe that there was some over-management. And that should not be the purpose of a new national assessment system, which will be presented to spring.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e746	The left was obviously satisfied with most of this budget – including market-driven interest rates. Although they may have wanted a political overthrow in their heart, it seemed as if they were satisfied with everything at all. I agree with Helene Falch Fladmark that in the case of higher education, there are certainly colleges and universities that have come out best in this budget. There's not much cut, as far as we can talk about cuts – maybe not cut at all in relation to the current budget – and the real level is roughly maintained. The area that has clearly become the loser – and I would like to see the Left’s view – is the primary school and the secondary school. It's a fact that, in relation to the budget that the government put forward, this is a cut of well over 300 million. kr. These cuts are based on quality measures at school, on the school leisure system, and funding for 50 million educational materials was cut. kr. A commitment that the Stortinget has said in the past will go over three years with 50 million. kr every year, has now been zeroed out in cooperation with the Right. In the case of continuing training and training measures, the real level is maintained — possibly. My question to the Left is therefore: Does the Left think that hitting the municipal sector is the right way to cut? Is there a proper way of prioritizing, reducing public school appropriations — public primary and secondary — and maintaining private school appropriations? Is it a priority that the Left can defend against its municipal politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e755	Let me first remind the representative of Reikvam that it is primarily the municipalities and county municipalities that are responsible for primary school and secondary school. In the budget line that is adopted, there is a municipal economy similar to that presented in the municipal economic proposition in spring. It's tight for the municipalities, too, but we have faith that local politicians work for the school. SV comes with criticism of things that have been cut. Clearly it is difficult to cut this sector because everything is very important. But I have to say that I am surprised at the cuts SV have chosen to do. On a day like this, when the UN Declaration of Human Rights celebrates 50 years, SV has chosen to cut the religious faith communities. I think it's a little special that you choose to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e762	The Left Party has the task of facilitating small and medium-sized enterprises and is also engaged in research. These are good things, but the problem for the Left is that the Government, at last year's budget, in the revised national budget, and also in the budget we are discussing now, is doing a huge cut in the right of nutrition research. And the reductions come not only in the Ministry of Industry's budget, but also for example. on the budget of the Ministry of the Environment, which is also a department governed by a Council of the Left. Helene Falch Fladmark put his emphasis on basic research in the post. It is clear that, in relative terms, basic research becomes extra strength when such a large cut is made in the field of nutrition research. And my question is whether this is the future. Is it the future right to reduce business research?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e769	First of all, I would like to say that it is very forward-looking to give priority to basic research. In fact, the main basis for knowledge building in this society is basic research. In the field of business research, we believe it is important — and it is also stated in the proposal — that it be targeted so that it can benefit small and medium-sized enterprises. That priority, I think, is important.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e776	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e779	There are several speakers here today who have shown how the majority cut in our budget particularly affects our youngest schoolchildren. I want to take special care of the school leisure system here. When we know at the same time that the municipalities get tight next year, primary school will suffer as well. There are already signs that we can face extensive school closures next year, and that it is not just in municipalities with scattered population, but the few schools are most vulnerable. The country for unadulterated and few-parted schools has, through several contacts to the Committee, called for warning of the situation. Lower secondary schooling will often lead to long-distance transport for students. This can lead to health problems and little time for schoolwork, play and leisure. The parents who have the opportunity to do it may choose to move where the school is. There are many examples that school dropouts also lead to depopulation. We believe that the secondary school is important. The Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party propose that the Government should present a separate case to the Stortinget addressing the causes of school leaving and discussing the role of the State and the municipality in this context. As far as the school leisure system is concerned, it is a tragedy that government grants are so heavily reduced. It should have been increased. Today's subsidy rates are the same as six years ago, they have not even been adjusted for price and salary increases. The Labour Party also has a responsibility for this, since we were in the government offices for five of the six years. But now the majority is proposing to reduce the rate by about 30 pst, and the consequences of that can be easily predicted. In a case that is discussed later today, the Government proposes to increase the allocation of the school leave scheme for the current year because the number of students in this scheme has become larger than expected. It is also strange that for the next year's budget a significant reduction in the scheme is proposed. There have already been signs from municipalities where the councillor's budget proposal involves the closure of the school leisure system, and in one case, as I became acquainted with yesterday – in the case of a municipality in Buskerud – the proposal is that the school leisure system should be closed down at six of the municipality's schools. We hope that local politicians will find money to give priority to this activity, but I am not very optimistic. The parental payment will in any case have to be increased in all municipalities, and much more than the representative Lyngstad said here earlier today. There is a lot of evidence that parents have to bear the full cost of their country's reduced subsidies. This will also lead to more children being excluded from this offer because their parents cannot afford to pay in part. I fear a development where we get more key children who come home to empty houses. In today’s society, the school leisure system is a vital part of school life. This is why the Workers' Party wants students to have a right to school leisure schemes. Only in this way can we ensure that the municipality offers an offer to anyone who wants it. We also believe that there must be a ceiling on the parental payment, so that it does not preclude anyone from participating in this scheme. The size has recently adopted a law on the school leisure scheme in which we are in favour of a third of the costs. Now when the state reduces its subsidy so dramatically, it becomes rather illusory, because by thirds we believe that the municipality, state and parents should bear their own share. My appeal to the majority is therefore that they have to look at this matter again as soon as possible and at the next crossroads, preferably in the revised national budget, so that we can do something about the state's funding for school leisure schemes, and so that we do not risk having the smallest school children face a difficult future.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e803	I feel it natural to start with the chapter dealing with the operation of the department, chapter. 200, for which I am also the case rapporteur. In the year we have ahead of us, there are many important issues for the ministry. I am pleased to note that a joint committee stresses the importance of prioritising the work of the announced paper on reform 94. In the context of secondary education, it is particularly important, in the view of the Progress Party, to re-evaluate the theoretical part of vocational training. Vocational training in secondary schools must be organised with a strong link to the labour market. It is also important that we do not exaggerate the academicisation of vocational training. Of course, some theory must also be within this education, but it must not be exaggerated. As part of the evaluation, the Progress Party hopes that special attention will be paid to the rate of non-response that has occurred in these programmes. Many students seem to have become far too difficult to live with. Some of the results have been seen in the form of high rates of non-response, high levels of absence, increased problems with students going from a basic course to a basic course, etc. Another thing an overall committee seems to agree on is the importance of working on the 2000 issue. On several occasions in Stortinget, the Progress Party has underlined the importance of updating public computer systems, which in many cases are not built to address the 2000-year problem. With the large public sector we have in Norway, the public data systems are fundamental to our social structure. The next thing I want to draw attention to is the characterization in school. Anyone who has been in a professional life for some time knows that one is constantly being evaluated and judged for one's knowledge, effort and work. Employers, customers, recipients, or in our case: voters and press, don't judge by giving character from S to LG, or from 6 to 1, but if you do a bad job, the consequences for the business you work in can become big. Customers and recipients like, and in our case, the entire Norwegian people. We live in a society where competition for jobs and places of study is high. Both nationally and internationally, we are in a competitive position. Today’s young people should be put into this reality as early as possible. The Progress Party sees characters as a central preparation for what awaits young people when they get out of work. There is also another important aspect of the grades: how do you know where you stand professionally and what progress you have in a subject, if you don't get a proper, objective response to what you're doing? Without evaluation, you get stuck in a professional vacuum. The characteristics are also the best evaluation system for admission to higher education and for job search, in particular in the case of new graduates. On the basis of these assessments, we have made a proposal to introduce professional qualifications in all primary school subjects from the fifth grade onwards. It is our hope that other parties too will see the rationale of this proposal, perhaps especially the Right, which we thought had programmed this on page 64 of their programme. If this document has been lost to the Right, I have a copy I can borrow. Finally, some comments on my reply with the representative Lyngstad earlier today regarding the registration of students who are unfit for a profession. I agree, of course, that this is a topic that individual colleges probably handle well, but that is not the problem. The problem is when a student who has been discovered is unfit, jumps over to a similar education at another college. This is where we want to benefit from a registration scheme or regulation, as the students themselves suggest, and as the Progress Party proposes here today. The representative Lyngstad is not on the list of speakers anymore today, so I will send the challenge to his party colleague, the Council of State: is there anything we can do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e826	It's this boom that's going to shape our education policy into a new millennium. The future will give us greater and faster changes, but also a greater deficiency. Even before the education sector, we will experience an increase in shortages. So instead of just focusing on equality, we need to focus more on equivalency. If the equivalency is to be a reality, we have to ensure quality in all terms. I have noticed that a comprehensive committee is busy with quality training and links comments to this with the work of the paper on equivalent training and national assessment systems in the primary and secondary education. Quality development is a priority task in the department. I expect to present this big message in the spring of 1999 – so early that the message can be processed before the summer break. In its comments, the majority of the Committee underlined relatively clearly the need for a national assessment system to be aimed primarily at stimulating and assisting local quality development. I agree with that and will base this on the work on the upcoming big message. We're not talking primarily about control and inspection, we're talking about support and guidance. It's important to link our understanding of quality to the values we're working on in school life. Therefore, appropriate school assessment systems must be designed to provide pupils, teachers and parents with help to communicate sensibly about the values and measures, to hold them up against the light and to work steadily and constantly in relation to them. Entrepreneurship is a focus area for the Government. The «Entrepreneurship in education and training» plan will be continued and strengthened in cooperation with other departments, the State Education Office, County Councils, Municipalities and other bodies such as: business itself. Entrepreneurship as a way of thinking and action can strengthen the school’s distinctive character and make students more active, safe and independent. Here's room for local customization. I am pleased that the budget has given room to try to secure school structure and focus on skills development in the districts. This includes: So let's say 50 million. funds from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. I also mention the opportunities for innovative schools through targeted use of IT, to try out how new technologies can help make small schools attractive and viable. The economic situation has made it necessary to give strict priority within tight budgetary frameworks. In this situation, I have chosen to prioritise higher education and research. I'm glad that the Storting joins such a main priority. I said that this is the big deal that's going to shape our education policy into the next millennium. An important step on my part has been to set up the Mjøs Committee, which will discuss our higher education in a broad and forward-looking societal perspective. The setting from this selection will serve as the basis for a higher education message, which I suggest will handle. In the setting, a number of members of the Committee propose that the Government submit proposals for a test paragraph in the Law on Universities and Higher Schools, with the authority of the institutions, to try out new arrangements for organisation and management. I myself have the right to have such extended opportunities for trials, including: in the case of management and evaluation. I think this could open up interesting and exciting trials in the university and higher education sectors. The Committee does not want a weight limit relative to the payment of the property of participants. Let me make it clear: I don't want an arrangement where ordinary students pay for the education they receive. In some European countries, e.g. The United Kingdom and the Netherlands, we see that high tuition rates are a funding solution for common places of study. I also don't think it's such an evolution the committee wants. On the other hand, it should be possible to take ownership in order to make it possible to provide for groups other than those admitted as ordinary students at the university. The government is asking for a case of building needs in the university and higher education sectors in the spring of 1999. I take note of this. I have also noticed that a number in the Committee will go back to the 60 pst scheme. State support for student housing, as planned before 1991. I'm recording that the committee's statement is: ‘The majority are aware that a conversion to 60/40 – pst. current financing may mean fewer housing units’. I am pleased to note that the budgetary position expresses a broad and cross-political agreement on prioritising research, in line with that of others. a debate on research policy in the spring was held in an inter-pelling debate. Research is an important investment in the future. When we see how dependent we are on raw materials, and when they see the rashes of such bonds, we're reminded again how necessary it is to build a more knowledge-based society. In this budget, even within tight limits, we have achieved little when it comes to research. In particular, the fundamental research appropriations for the Research Council’s budget have been increased monthly – for the first time since 1992. It'll give you, but it'll give you. the ability to strengthen medical research, as many of us have desired. The scientific research of particular relevance to marine bets is also given a lift. I am also pleased that there is room for strengthening a good basic research measure such as the Centre for Higher Studies, and that the regional institutes are given a handshake that they have long wanted through a growth in the baselines of 15 million. kr. In this area too, a return to 1992 is needed to find an increase in the number of licences. The budget facilitates Norwegian participation in the EU’s new research framework programme. In other words, we have tried to take care of both the national and international research perspectives. As the Council of Churches, I would generally like to say that I am pleased with the basic positive attitude of the Committee on the Church of the People's Party and the Church's popular work, such as this one. is expressed in comments on the church's resource situation. Prestetenesta is a fundamental service in the church. There is a great deal to be said about how the Church can perform its role as a church in the individual church sounds. I am so glad that a co-consultant committee joins the budget proposal to increase the rewards of the performance in 1999. The majority of the Committee suggests that new basic courses be established in the media/communications and commercial subjects. We now have four years of experience in the basic course of Reform 94, and we have gained important insights into the structure from both the research-based evaluation and from a number of hearing aids. A comprehensive review of the structure of continuing training will be presented in a communication to the Stortinget in spring 1999. In this message I want to attend. follow up on the two new basic courses. It is the government's desire that the level and quality of the school leisure offer be maintained even if the state proposal is now reduced. I do not, of course, see it as a pity to have increased parental pay, but the cut in this budget line must be seen in conjunction with a slight increase in the level of taxes and taxes. New law and regulations on the school leisure arrangements will apply from the end of the year. In light of this, I will follow developments closely, both in terms of the number of children in the scheme, the quality of supply and the level of parental pay. The majority of the Committee expresses concern at the resource situation of the Widespread Centre of Competence and asks the new Board to review it. I understand such a sweetness. At the same time, the majority conclude that the trades that are currently located in Søndre Land are to be moved to Oslo. The note may be interpreted as not wanting the new board to assess, in its review of the Bredtvet situation, how best to ensure the overall competence in the area of speech flow/strainage. I have difficulty believing that this is what the majority have meant. I therefore ask for clarification as to whether the Committee has agreed with me that a new review of the resource and competence situation at Bredtvet must cover the whole activity at the institution, to which this also includes the pooling of the scientific community within the area of speech flow/strainage. The Labour Party is funding a number of good actions by cutting back on private bullets. But the rules for private bullets are governed by law, and the Workers' Party did not propose any changes to the private sphere, as the Stortinget recently had it to handle. I don't think they did that because they did it earlier in a debate we had then. But it's actually a plurality that has decided to keep today's legislation. I turn to both the Labour Party and SV, because as long as it is, it's not cut as one here suggests, and as one is going to spend on other things, real money. That's what the individual in this house has called "harry money". In fact, one has to comply with the law and regulations, and it doesn't do the Workers' Party and SV. They're funding a lot of things with money that they're taking to break a law that the majority have actually passed. It also applies to cut 30 million. kr to the public eyeballs. This section cannot be implemented without changes in laws. It will also break all the rules of a credible and good administration, because the effect comes in the middle of a school year. Knowledge is important for creation and education. It is becoming increasingly clear to us that investment in skills is an important investment in quality of life and value creation for the future. Nations that are able to develop forward-looking and flexible education systems create decisive competitive advantages for themselves. I am therefore glad that in a budget we have found room for a certain lifting, if not large, within the field of education and research.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e871	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e874	The Council of State used most of its intervention to clarify that it should follow up the various majority comments of the Committee. Yes, of course! But where were the lines, where were the long lines of development and the Council of State thinking about education policy? What is important to consider from the Government side? The only thing he had an attitude to, as I experienced it, was in connection with the Church. Right there, the Labour Party actually has its own comments from the Church, Education and Research Committee for the first time, because we believe it is now time that the Council of State, which is also the supremely responsible, can say something about the intolerance of some minorities in our democratic society. So to education policy. And let me immediately reserve myself against the notion that the goal of equality has something to do with equalization, where the Council of State points out that it's about equality and not equality. In the Norwegian community, the idea of equality has served diversity, and individuals have been given better opportunities to develop on their own premises, while the opponents who have often been in favour of unification are the ones who have been asked for the square arrangements to be applied to all. Governments also come into this area, just as the government parties and partners have done today, the emphasis on private schools, but lacks an assessment of what you really want with the single school.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e885	The representative Knudsen described in his main post today, who had some interesting passengers, a change of course that I don't want to say in any way is consistent. The reality is that the centre party has been in charge of a strong school of unity and equality for all, as has every cage in the country and the economic leaders. At the same time, the representative Knudsen knows that we always fight for a private school law, a health law that gives parents the right to establish and run schools, and not just people with a lot of money. When both the Labour Party and its speakers today try to pretend that this is a priority for the private schools rather than the public, it is not in keeping with reality. The reality is still that it's 85 pst. the average cost of running public schools, which are fed to private schools. Investments are not included in this, and the costs are incurred in relation to it. Furthermore, the difference consists in a much smaller degree of instrumentalistic control of the school. We have much more confidence in the teacher and the teacher's ability to use the curriculum. For this reason, we have also been strongly in favour of a test paragraph when it comes to training laws. Similarly, we have tried to initiate a dialogue with Teacher Norway in relation to just how the school should be managed, and the confidence of the individual educator. When it's equivalent, I'm going to say that the central government stands for a greater separation of equivalency when we say that minorities should also have the right to choose different, at the same time as we bet on the public school.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e894	I am grateful that the Council of State took action in its delay and did not count on the Right in the Warehousing which was accused of using ‘harry money’. It is certainly a reasonably comprehensive public characteristic of the way in which the Workers' Party and the SV have been involved in their draft budget. I noticed that the Council of State took note – I would like him to have used a slightly more positive wording – of the Committee’s overall desire to get back a document on the building needs and prioritisation of building needs in the higher education sector to spring. I expect that the Council of State there will also set out different localisation options in relation to some of the development plans. That's another question I'd like to interpolate the Council of States. It is mentioned in the referral by the Committee on the right to grant doctoral degrees and, where appropriate, the extension of that right to more than one higher education institution. I would like the Council of State to confirm that he sees the role of the Norwegian Network Council in this context as a purely advisory role, while it is the department that has full and professional and, if necessary, financial responsibility. I would also like to ask the Council of State whether he assumes that any right to notify a doctoral degree will automatically trigger resources in the form of new positions or other things? On the contrary, my view is that the basis for assessing access to new doctoral degrees is that these resources already exist at the institution concerned. And finally, the proposition mentions the distribution of new scholarship positions – among 35 new scholarship positions, 10 are intended to be distributed to private universities. I would like the Council to comment on that, because there is a whole new principle regarding the allocation of resources to private colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e905	First of all, the question of doctoral degrees. There I can confirm the representative's understanding of wages. The Norwegian Network Council has done a brilliant job in facilitating and testing a quality assurance system. They've done their job there. This job has been approved by the Ministry, and the Norwegian Network Council has been commissioned by the Ministry to find committees in accordance with the guidelines approved by the Ministry, such as: clearly states that there should be international competence connected. When there is a council, it is the department that makes the final decision. The last time we handled this in a very short time – I think it is fairly exemplary – and I can promise the representative Wohnning that there will also be a quick handling when this is done, so that it can be clear before the summer holiday. On the other hand, when resources are involved, it is more complex. It is quite clear that there is a quality that should be the basis for allocation. Therefore, it will not be added to an automatic system from my side, but for us to have a dialogue with the individual institutions in relation to it – so it will not be added automatically there. When it comes to the question of grant options for private universities, it is that some of the schools that used to have an extra supplement for undefined tasks now get a research support through these scholarship positions, and I think it's a good way to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e914	Let me first draw attention to the fact that SV has not proposed reducing the appropriations for public schools. We are on what is the proposal, so I expect it to be a delay when the Council of State took SV into account. In terms of quality and quality development, profile and development, the Council of State drew up a distinction between those who want a centralist management of Norwegian school – and understood that it is the Workers’ Party and the SV – and the others. I guess no one here is against the plans that exist. We want a combination, we want it to be an opportunity for locally adapted learning material, and we want great educational freedom for the individual teacher. There is a broad consensus about that in this assembly, so I have some problems seeing that there should be some dividing lines there. I therefore think that the Council of State should comment a little more on that too. The Council of State says that the school leisure system will not be weakened by the cut that has been made, and he believes that parents can pay a little more. The unfortunate thing about the way to charge taxes, which this really is, is that it affects everyone equally. As long as we have income taxes, we have the opportunity to get a fair tax burden. This, however, is unfairly affected by the fact that a larger share will be transferred to that type of government revenue. It won't have any significant impact, says the Council of State, that we're reducing the grant scheme to equipment by 50 million. kr. Where is the limit to having a significant impact on the education sector? So finally, a question to the Council of State that goes to a conversion unit at the center of competence. A majority has agreed to this. If necessary, the State Council will come back to the Storting in the context of the revised national budget in order to create early retirement schemes, etc.? That was a concrete question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e925	First, a reason why I took them with me when it came to the public spheres. It was a delay, it's quite right. It's good that SV here actually maintains a line they've had in relation to public squalls. However, if one looks at the private spheres, both the SV and the Labour Party, the difference between their previous budget in terms of cutbacks, and the new line is much larger than when it relates to their centre part compared to the school leisure scheme. If there's someone who's done a line break here, it's actually these two pieces. This can be documented in relation to previous settings, both in text and in sum. So I didn't say, as the representative Rikvam says, that parents can pay well. I said it would be so that they actually have to pay more, up to 120 kroner in many municipalities on average, but in some municipalities where the municipality has not previously been in, it will not be that much, because they have to go in there and at least keep the infrastructure according to the new laws and regulations that are adopted. So the representative, Mr Rikvam, asks, where is the border going? It is clear that it does not seem to promote the quality of the cuts that we have to do, I do so without further delay. But at the same time it is a priority within tight frameworks that have been made, and then one also had to accept that one had to take some money in the field of education. Now it's not so that all of these money is really cut. It is also a matter of adjusting the level of activity, where one goes further this year, as long as one gets more knowledge of the level.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e934	Today we experienced a government council that couldn't draw any long lines in education policy, a state council that couldn't take a look and draw the lines forward for how School-Norway was going to evolve. We experienced a government council tied to the mast, with the Progress Party as a coroner and right as loose. So he's hiding behind our cut in the private schools. What is the reality is that the government and government parties with open eyes chose to enter into a partnership with the Right Party and the Advance Party. For them, the cash support was so sacred and so important that there could not be a quarter of a kroner on it in order to meet the Workers' Party and conduct real negotiations with us. So in his last reply to the representative, Reikvam, the Council of State said something that only underlines what we knew, that when he had to prioritize within a tight framework, he chose to cut the public institutions, public schools, in consultation with his colleagues and federalities here in the house, while choosing to protect the private systems. When the council had to choose, it was the line he left on. Especially alarming is the fact that the State Council of Lilletun, who was the head of the Church, Education and Research Committee in the past period, can go in and cut the 50 million. kr to teaching material after reform 97. It was an agreement, it was agreed in Stortinget that 50 million would be granted. kr every year for three years. Now Lilletun was not on that decision in his time, for he proposed 75 million. kr for three years. Then it is alarming that he can advise his own to go away from it. It just shows that we have now received a government that can be ruled in one and all of the Right Party and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e941	If we go back to the original budget proposals, the government's budget proposals and the alternative budgets of the different parties – I've gone into and looked at the dimensions there – find that those who want to spend the most money on education on their own are SV. The ones who want to spend the second most money on education are Right. Then the government comes, and then the Labour Party comes 100 million. I'm going to go to kr below it. That is the reality – it is the forward-looking education policy that the Labour Party claims they stand for. Within a tight budget, the central government actually has priority education. So the representative, Norvoll, repeated that we have chosen to cut in the public schools and protect them privately. The private get relative to a law, and it's always less than the public get. So it's not like we've given them priority, but they've been given to the decisions the Storting has made, on a legal basis. So it's said that here we're tied to the mast, to the Right and the Advance Party. The Right Party and the Progress Party shall be praised for their willingness to go in and concretely support the Government in its budgetary work. I also documented here that when it concerns education, the Right actually was willing to invest 100 million. kr more than the Government and 200 million. kr more than the working party. So it's a false description that there should be a distinction in exactly those places.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e951	So it's the way that private people get what they're asking for, and what's left is going to go to public schools and offers. It's particularly sad that the budget agreement goes down on our smallest schoolchildren, the ones who need it the most. Otherwise, I would like the Council of State to clarify what he said in his statement about the centres of expertise, and the Bredtvet in particular. For our remarks should be crystal clear. We agreed to the proposal in St.meld. No 23 for 1997-98 that Bredtvet also had to take part in the reductions. But the premise is that the Søndre Land department is co-located with the Bredtvet so that the positions are moved to Bredtvet, and not to Upperby, which has also been the subject of rumors. The majority are against it, and when we ask for the new board to review the resource situation at the Wide-ranging Competence Centre, we believe the Wide-Federal Centre of Competence, because we do not want to see a greater reduction here than the big-time announcement provided for, and we do not want positions from the Bredtvet to go to other areas of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e958	Once again a correction: they don't get what they're asking for, they get according to the law, and that's on average 85 pst. of what they get in public. If you check the public permissions, the permissions of the private schools will automatically go down. That is the reality. So in relation to the center of competence. What was in my opinion was that when we have had a professional review of the Widerranged Centre of Competence and the total tasks they have, we have come up with various solutions that could perhaps be seen to be better for the sector, and what we wanted was that the new board should be able to look at them. The size has simply not been able to see the last thing that has happened in relation to the group that has gone through this. Of course, it's not like the Council of State is thinking of going across what the Storting has said, but what this group has said is that it would be very interesting to see a part of this in conjunction with Overby, because it could bring together greater competence in this area. What I asked about was whether the board could be able to go into this issue. Some have tried to make this a district policy. It is not. It's a professional question, and if it's professionally equivalent or better, it didn't do anything about Uppland, which is so hard to deal with, it got a part of this competence instead of a further centralization in Oslo. So this is what was on my question, and since I understand, at least the Workers' Party as part of the plurality will not disagree that the board will have access to it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e971	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e974	The high and rapid rate of change in society places great demands on good knowledge and competence. This is why the 1990s have become the decades of education reform. Now is the time to establish the supply of crops that require continuous updates, in other words, lifelong learning. This is why the new planned skills reform will become an important crop reform as an action in lifelong learning. Because there is no doubt that it is the adults who have become the losers in the Norwegian education system today. In addition, when we record that the Government and the majority of the population reduce efforts on education and skills and at the same time reduce framework transfers to the local government sector, there is real cause for concern about the future of the public education system. And this is happening at the same time that private providers are screened by law for large cuts. The Labour Party emphasises that all children and young people should have equal rights to education. That's why it's important for us to prioritise public institutions that cover everyone. When the Government Party and the Right in its budgetary agreement reduce the framework area by a total of 328 million. kr, it is also such that the Labour Party must adhere to the framework decided upon by the Storting. I am pleased that the Government has adjusted the pay and price increases for the next year when it applies to training within the criminal justice system. What is not good is that the budget proposal does not compensate for the delay since 1994. The Committee has also, on a number of occasions, been concerned with the manning situation at the State Training Office in Hordaland, which has the coordinating responsibility for the teaching of prisons. I would ask the Council of State to follow closely the manning situation and, if necessary, return to the Storting in the revised national budget for spring, so that the funds for prison education can be administered and used in the best possible way. I have to add that I am not so little surprised at the downgrading of this important area by the Progress Party. The party of progress simply says that they are primarily committed to reducing the cost of training within the criminal justice system, and it should be noted by many. In my reply earlier to the Progress Party, I didn't get any answers as to what kind of level they're going to put on in the future when it comes to training within this area. In the course of the review of the revised national budget in June, special attention was given to technical teaching equipment and the adaptation of local distances. This is what we in the Labour Party think is a little satisfactory, and we made suggestions to grant 35 million. kr in our alternative budget line. Unfortunately, after the adoption of the budget line by the Centre Party and the Right Party, we can no longer find room to continue this proposal. This does not mean that we are satisfied with the situation, because even if the permissions in its time were to be ‘temporary’, we know absolutely that there is still a lag in the counties. There is a multiple set of options to change parts of the basic course structure of further training already before the reform 94 evaluation is completed. The aim is to establish a whole new basic course within the media and communication and to break down the established structure in the field of economic and administrative subjects, because we have registered that economic and administrative training has become a loss in Reform 94 in many ways. So now a number in the Committee will ask the Government to establish a basic course in commercial subjects. Another important area of further education is the purchase of schoolbooks and the large cost to students. The working party would like to have an arrangement for the free lending of school books in combination with additional investments in electronic learning. So as a first step, here we're going to suggest that we allow 50 million. kr for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e993	I'm very glad that Councillor Lilletun took the time to figure out a little bit about the use of "harry money," or monopoly money, as I like to call it, since I have a good friend named Harry who I don't want to insult. I think it's very important to get these pages out of this year's budget. Besides, it also emphasizes another side that occupies us in the right very strongly. With the multiple accounting shown here by the Labour Party, we once again see that the need for a new basic course in commercial subjects before economic-administrative education is so absolute! On the right hand side, this has been a requirement for many years in the light of the calls we have received from the business community, both on the employer's side and on the employee's side. As far as I've managed to clear up, the number of elephants as well as this specialist, now on a national basis, is reduced from 10,000 to 14,000 a year before Reform 94 to approx. 3,000 a.m. today. In the 1997-98 school year, for the first time fewer than 1 000 elephants started the course account 1 at the continuing schools in this country. These developments are having serious consequences for Norwegian business, not least for accounting agencies and a large number of small businesses. We don't need college-based people for every job. We don't need economists to sort attachments in Norwegian small businesses. As a case spokesman for the chapter on the University of Oslo, I am particularly pleased that we have been able to give a clear signal to the construction of the Computer Science Building at the University. But when it comes to this chapter, I am also forced to correct a small error that has entered the setting, which a collective committee has asked me to make a note of. On page 46, second column, a comprehensive committee asked that a new enlargement message on the dimensioning of higher education contain measures to increase the capacity for medical training. Unfortunately, in the event of a typographical error, there are four words left standing, ‘in the different regions’, with which a collective committee does not think it should be. So a little bit back to the main lines of education policy. Earlier today, I challenge the representative Lyngstad whether what we saw at the moment was a step towards closer cooperation on the non-social side of school policy. One of the answers given by the representative Lyngstad was a well. He said that equivalent training before a unity school tradition was the Christian People's Party's policy. Then I would ask the representative Lyngstad to note what the committee leader Grete Knudsen said in his statement today: ‘Perhaps the school has become so common that it becomes almost like a flake that no longer means anything.’ On the right hand side, we're for the unit ball. We're for the unicorn in the sense that we want all the elephants, without regard to each of them cages, economy and ability, to have an equivalent supply. But equivalent doesn't mean the same thing as equal. Equally, it must mean that there is a different offer, since we as human beings and students as elephants are different. It might be very interesting if the Christian People's Party also said clearly what they're putting in the single-spherical action, and what they're not putting into it. So maybe we could get a debate that was a little bit more transparent. When it comes to the private spheres, which is a very useful supplement and in many cases a very exciting alternative to the public schools, I am also sorry that the Christian People's Party has broken a barrier in this budgetary process and also in the fall during the treatment of the private spheres. For the first time, the Christian People's Party has been involved in setting limits, thanking the number of elephants that can get their way through top-school education, the top-level section that's lying there. This is with and prevents the development of an important school battle, and I hope it is not a signal that the Christian People's Party will also now begin to deviate from ideology and let freedom rule only where it suits that party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1013	Government of Carl I. Hagen's grace has its price. Hardly any budget shows it more clearly than the education budget. When the Minister of Culture reduces press support, or when the Minister of State reduces the finances of municipalities, or when it reduces labour market measures to those who need it the most, there is evidence of a stronger right-wing disorder. In the newspaper on December 6, 1998, Jon-Hjalmar Smith wrote: ‘Mighty gives merflavor, Lahnstein suggested when she got an interview from Geir Salvesen in the evening post at the last year’s turn — and it doesn’t help that the minority power has given 80 percent of us a certain taste. Of course, the dream situation was quite different a year ago.» I choose to believe that even within the Government it has been difficult for some government councils in terms of the education budget. It should sting painfully at those parties that have previously supported the Workers' Party's vision of a school for everyone, from elementary school to university. Now we see that the Government, the Right and the Advance Party are reducing the budget for public schools by 328 million. kr. The amount may not be large – it has also been underlined by the Council of State – but it shows a trend and a shift in line. Not all children are equally lucky with parents. Good and safe services in society’s institutions, kindergartens, leisure facilities and schools can be the only safety net for some children. It is no wonder that reducing transfers to public schools reduces the supply of most children. Is this an A and B school we're looking at now? Why have private schools not been reduced? Is it the Christian People's Party, the Advancement Party and the Right Family Policy and School Policy we now see? Where's the Center Party? An increasingly complex society and working life requires knowledge and skills that never before. Primary school is no longer available to meet the demands of modern business. Therefore, it is also necessary to offer those who want to acquire new knowledge. Hedmark is among the countries with the lowest level of education in the population. This Hedmark has worked purposefully to change. The college in Hedmark has managed to reverse this negative trend. College in Hedmark teaches, among other things, Young people in technology and data, and students are so in demand that they are hijacked before they finish exams, and that is joyous. At the college in Hamar, it's tight. Yes, the Council of State is well aware of that. The working conditions of the students are under any criticism. Hamar high school is one of the few teacher schools that have an increase in the number of applicants, but the physical conditions are too bad. State Council Lilletun has traveled a lot around the country and visited many teaching institutions. However, it becomes a problem when you learn that the Council of State has promised the same thing to everyone. I hope the Council of State can confirm that the construction of a new school at Hamar can start soon. Education promotes self-esteem for individuals and will be the key for Norway to remain a fair welfare society. Finally, I have joined the debate, and I have noticed that the Central Party in particular is committed to blaming the Workers' Party for the fact that the Government has joined the Right Party and the Advance Party. But I assume they've gone there by themselves. I guess they weren't unpredictable at the moment of action, as it's called. Now it's actually time for the government to take responsibility for its own actions. The rest of us have at least realized that the government has been sitting for one year. So now it's up to you to stand upright on your own choices.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1042	Unfortunately, the budget of the Church, Education and Research Committee, as it stands, is an example of the fact that the central government has laid the foundation for a right-wing policy. Because in the agreement between the centre, the Right and the Advance Party, private schools are the priority, while public services are being reduced. State Council Lilletun said in the reply that both the Right and the Center parties in their alternative arrangements had more money for education than the Workers' Party had. But the reality is that after the negotiations between the centre parties, the Right and the Advance Party, we had to cut our budget by 234 million. kr to keep the frame. So even though both the Right and the Center government had more money than us, it was well the Progress Party that decided that the framework should be reduced so strongly. It is a pity that this government has chosen to make a backwards cash support reform so important that it is the Progress Party that governs. Still, there's some sparkle, because it's said some part here that doesn't have to do directly with the distribution of money, but that's still important. I want to highlight in particular what a broad majority says about student housing, on a proposal from the Workers' Party, because here the basis for several rule changes is laid. The most important thing is to remove the current ceiling on grants and allow the grant to amount to 60 pst. of the pre-approved construction costs. The majority understand that fewer housing units can be built, but it is better that fewer dwellings are built than that good projects that are needed cannot be realized. The time doesn't allow me to go into the other rule changes we're going to go into, but what needs to be underlined is that there's a great need for student housing. A broad majority agrees that there is a need for increased investment. We have not made proposals to vote on this matter, but we expect the department to follow up the setting, and we will also have the opportunity to discuss this in Stortinget when the Government presents the action plan that we have requested. Several people in this room have probably received hundreds of e-mails about fixed interest rates on student loans in the last few days. In my reply to those who sent an e-mail to me, I refer to the decision that was promoted by the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right, and that the centre parties also voted for in the final vote. I have added in my answers that I expect that there will be an offer for fixed interest as soon as possible. But saying to impatient students as soon as possible isn't very concrete. So I want to ask the Council to help me so that I can become more concrete. One of the reasons why I asked about it is that the Council of State has given a little vague signals in this matter. In a letter to the Workers’ Party’s Group dated 30 November, the Council of State states that the Ministry, in cooperation with the Loan Fund, will facilitate the work on a fixed rate offer ‘to be investigated and prepared so that it can be put into operation in the year 2000’. However, further down in the same letter it says that the department ‘estimates different options and tries to find solutions that can be implemented at an earlier time’. It is no longer clear that the same government councillor Lilletun in a headline in the evening post 29 November, i.e. the day before this letter is dated, says that the fixed rate is coming – hopefully during this year. That must be 1998, after all. The question is whether the Council of State can help me to become more concrete, and answer when the refunders receive an offer for a fixed rate. Will it be this year, will it be before Easter, or will the Council of State still expect to wait until the year 2000? We have received a lot of e-mails – and to someone I answered, I tried to have a little fun and asked why they could not go on trains, like when I was young. But in fact, many young people have gone on trains in the fall. There have been students in high school in particular. There's a lot of reason to be concerned about the working environment of high school students, and we're very excited about what the Council of State will do when that matter comes to the Storting to spring. Another major issue for which students have been involved and demonstrated is free school books. There are many people here who have promised a lot in school debates in the election campaign. But it's actually just the Workers' Party that has followed up the promise, and we've added 50 million in our alternative arrangement. kr for the lending of school books. Even when we had to cut the budget by 234 million. kr after the majority had reduced the frame, we put off 50 million. kr for school books. Unfortunately, we don't have a majority this year, but there are new budgets coming, and this case we're going to work on.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1068	All parties want a good school, but we have different perceptions of what it is, and we have different bases for how we think different aspects of education and training should develop. The Christian People's Party wants to see the students as whole people. The Labour Party and the SV stress in their comments that the school should not be value neutral but based on democratic values. These are important values, but we are concerned that people also have a religious side and that the Christian basic values are still important for the development of individuals, for good association between men and for the preservation of the Christian cultural heritage. The fact that students are whole people means in school context that while we want the school to be a knowledge school, it should also provide care and contribute to the well-being and construction of good interpersonal relationships. This is why we regard the Government's commitment to prevention in school as very important at a time of great concern in many schools, where students feel insecure and insecure and teachers need help to deal with school life. Bullying, racism and violence can be countered by accountability in the form of democratic development, pupil council work and school conflict councils. But mind-creating work is one of the most difficult things there is. I think the learning methods used in this field are very important. Drama as a method is a tool that allows students to get into the situation of others in a special and educational way. I've said something in the past about it being valuable to get other professionals into school. The competence development programme that we have discussed in the past is also something that I have great faith in can be involved in and do something for the school situation and for the individual in the classroom. I also think that you need to bet on classroom research to help students and teachers. In the past, all parties have also said something about the importance of cooperation between home and school. Doesn't everyone here trust their parents and their ability to take care of their own children, since all the time it makes sense that it is society that can best care for the children, and that parents should get to work as early as possible and give priority to it rather than caring for their own children? The Christian People's Party is in favour of a school leisure arrangement. We could have wanted more money for this scheme, but we have thought that it should be a voluntary scheme with a three-part financial responsibility, where the municipality and the municipal politicians can decide the standard and price themselves. But SFO and kindergartens are not the beginnings and stages of the education chain. In his speech ‘The welfare state ahead of new road barriers’, Hill-Marta Solberg said that the 6-year reform was an investment, while cash support was a distribution. It is important for the Christian People's Party to clarify the dividing lines between the Workers' Party and us in this field. We believe that the parents' association with the children from them is so absolute is a very good investment in the future, both for individual children and for society. How can a person believe that employees in schools and kindergartens can in any case give a child more care and mutual responsibility than his or her parents can? I don't think so! It was said instead that the children do not choose their parents. Neither do they choose their kindergarten teachers and schoolteachers. Norwegian school students are not back on a professional basis in relation to other countries, although very many of them have neither been in kindergarten nor have had a full-time schooling in the form of a school holiday scheme. There must be other motifs behind the desire for early school start-up and that the smallest should have full-day services in kindergarten and SFO. Finally, for the school and not least for the teachers, the local and pedagogical freedom of action that the Government points out in its budgetary comments is very important. Entrepreneurship and resource centres are positive measures in the right direction. Reform 97 could easily be given a commitment that deprived students, teachers and parents of desire and, after all, the capacity for initiative and innovation, which is immensely valuable for commitment and work.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1094	We have had a debate today and also earlier on the Committees' budgets, which have been marked by the fact that there has been a shift in centre parties. We have experienced that the Right Party and the Advance Party in the Committee have been made aware of the fact that public society systems are to be downgraded, while the private, personalised systems are at the forefront. We're experiencing a center that acts almost like a political prop, that can't really defend itself. We saw in the negotiations that when the centre had to choose, they said – and they still say – that they prioritise the school, while actually depriving it and public society solutions. We have just received a very clear statement from the representative, Mr. Strådveit, as to why they believe that cash support and private, personalised schemes are much more important than the overall social arrangements. We have to respect that position, but we don't have to agree with it in any way. And it must be allowed to say that it is gross, not so much for the Workers' Party, but for the Norwegian school, that those who have always claimed that they are for the school of unity and want to strengthen it, now change sides. I also feel that representatives from the Central Party are trying to defend themselves with the fact that they had to cooperate with the Right and the Advance Party, if not, the Labour Party and the Right would have created a budget that would be considerably worse than what is being adopted today. That's not right. The Labour Party offered itself in a chaotic situation in which the government parties seemed unable to take control, to cooperate with anyone in order to bring about a sound order. In such cooperation, it would never be felt that the Workers' Party failed its principles of the school leisure system, of primary school, of the single school and of our general, large social institutions. Once the government parties have now gone to the Right and the Advance Party, they will be in charge of it. They will learn to stand on their own feet at some point, not to drive and hang in their trousers and skirts to the representatives of the Workers' Party. But we're taking note of the line break that has taken place. We do not believe that the cuts – even though they are large, and even if they are bad – in public schools themselves will lead to a total breakdown of the school offer. But it'll notice, and it's an expression of a trend and a line that the center parties have now chosen. The representative Lyngstad de-dramatized the cut in the school leisure scheme, saying that it will only cost NOK 120 more a month. First of all, I think that number is wrong. It will vary greatly from municipality to municipality. And I have to say, it's probably not difficult for the representative Lyngstad to pay 120 or 150 kroner more a month, which after all has an income and diet plan of over 500,000 kroner a year. But there are many with small children who have it considerably tighter than the representative Lyngstad, and who will notice the cut that the majority now chooses to make. The Labour Party is betting on public schools, and not least we are betting on higher education. The opposite has been claimed today. I will then be allowed to draw attention to the fact that the Workers' Party today is proposing that 42 million be used. kr on decentralised higher education to bring education into the regions, so that it is possible for people who want higher education and higher qualifications to settle in the regions. If our proposal were adopted, there would be a promise for the decentralised higher education, and it would have given the opportunity to get on the legs a lot of offers around the country. The Committee agrees that universities with professional qualifications may award doctoral degrees. I assume that this happens quickly. We have also recorded that the Council of State has made a great deal of promises about new buildings and co-locations in the higher education and university sectors. Now the state council has traveled around and promised a lot. Now it's time for him to start concretely specifying the priorities and actually tackle the space problems that are at many institutions. Then I would like to remind you of the comment that a majority is behind, which says that co-location should be given priority, and we are looking forward to the Council of State presenting a case and actually starting to prioritise its own promises.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1115	From a number of speakers here today, opinions have emerged that the school does not require any of the students. It's a calm and an incorrect statement. The school has never demanded more of the students than today, and today the school requires a lot of all its students. An increasingly complex society and working life requires knowledge and skills that never before. However, it is very important to be clear that these requirements are not only a requirement for knowledge of several cities in Belgium. Young people get a pretty bad start if they just get the traditional knowledge. They are helpless in society and working life if they have not achieved a minimum of cooperation capacity. They're pretty poor if they haven't been trained through school for solidarity. They need, like no previous generations, both their critical sense and their creative ability. The answer to such challenges is not in what was. Several national knowledge tests, national assessment systems, national controls and several characters are miserable responses to the challenges we are now facing. In this work, the individual teacher, the individual team of teachers, are more important than both the Council of State, the Committee and central regulations. The assessment system that we can make on the basis of what's going on in each school is what's ahead of us in the future. In the debate today, the government parties, the Progress Party and the Right have used most of their muscles to defend their right-wing triangle. The grant to private schools has not been reduced. At the same time, the consequences have been reduced by the fact that public services such as school leisure arrangements, educational resources for 6-year-olds – not least Lilletun’s prefecture should be much higher – and measures for minority groups are being cut. Then it doesn't help much that the Council of State defends itself by listing who spends the most in the various budgets. For the last and seventh, the way you spend the money is the way that you always want to specify the direction you want to go in. In relation to what the Council of State has done in the past, I feel that he is not showing the same commitment now to a single school that is actually under pressure from many sides – a lot of sides. Clearly, with an emphasis on the individual arrangements, which the government parties have now made every effort to get through with their cash support, a different growth and family policy is also indicated. In addition, when there are now changes with such a large reduction in the school leisure system, it would be right if the Council of State could have said whether it would also indicate a different direction of school policy than before. It's no wonder that those questions are raised here, because it fits well with the weight put on the individual schemes in kindergartens. With cash support instead of kindergartens and with a reduction in school leisure arrangements, many of us see a right triangle in relation to the growing-up schemes that we've been focusing on in the past and that there's been a great deal of excitement in our society. I experienced that the Council of State did not say anything about which lines were to be taken into consideration. We all know that the Christian People's Party was nothing special for the 6-year-old reform, and that's where the Council of State is now taking money from. He's taking the 50 million from there. We know that the Christian People's Party was nothing special for the school leisure system. That's where he takes money from. He should have said whether he's setting another line here, and that the Central Party, which has been for the public schemes in the past, has really lost that battle.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1133	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1136	I think it is very gratifying that the Committee, apart from the Progress Party, expressed such a positive opinion about the University of Tromsø and the great importance it has for higher education, research and business in North Norway. Because it is a fact that the University's almost thirty-year-old presence in Tromsø has produced good results in terms of economic value creation and industrial renewal in the north, and it is the most important player to meet the needs of highly trained health professionals in North Norway. Unfortunately, we now see an increased failure in medical coverage in the north, both within the hospital unit and in primary health services in the municipalities. While the number of doctors working in Norway has increased by 1 202 doctors from 1995 to 1998, the number of doctors in Northern Norway has decreased. The reason is complex, but the Kuf Committee has pointed to one delicate point, namely the expansion of the University of Tromsø, which is not yet completed. It's structurally dimensioned for 3,000 students, and now it has 6,000 to 7 000. The Committee therefore makes it right to point out once again that the highest priority of the state-owned construction projects is the theoretical engineering, and that this project must be implemented quickly. I had hoped that we would get a redeployment on the budget so that the construction work could get started on the east wing in May next year. Fifteen million. kr is what is needed, and I assume and hope that the Government in the revised national budget for spring will take a new review and see if there is room to initiate the construction of the theoretical knowledge building. In this context, of course, an extension of the Regional Hospital and the medical profession is a prerequisite for us to be able to expand in the short term the number of medical students to 90, and then in the next round to increase to 120 per. years at the University of Tromsø. In this way, I am pleased that another committee, namely the Social Committee, in its budgetary position, promotes two Roma proposals that will both be of great importance for education and professionally interesting environments related to medicine in Tromsø. I am thinking of the social committee's proposal to ask the government to investigate the establishment of a national telemedicine centre at RITØ, funded by state resources, and the social committee's proposal to ask the government to assess the increased admission of medical students at the University of Tromsø. In addition, the budgetary agreement between the Right, the Advance Party and the Government has resulted in 5 million. extra as an incentive to increase and improve the medical coverage of the outlying areas. I am convinced that the sum of these measures will provide a new period of time for both medical training and healthcare in North Norway. Because it is that studies show that the educational capacity of the University of Tromsø has a clear link with medical coverage in the north. The study confirms that 80 pst. of Nordic youth who are educated at the University of Tromsø, are left in the county as a doctor after five years. Of young people from North Norway traveling south, only 40 pst. which returns to the continent after five years. So Stortinget can barely make a better investment in North Norway than investing in increased education at the University of Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1147	Fisheries and aquaculture are one of the most important industries in the economy of the country and the most important for employment and settlement in coastal regions. The significant research activity taking place in this industry is part of the current position of the Committee. In St.meld. No 51 for 1997-98, perspectives on the development of the Norwegian fishing industry, a value chain perspective underpins the fisheries policy. Based on the market challenge, challenges are discussed, inter alia: in research and development. The Ministry of Fisheries's R & D priorities for 1999 are based on this Communication, and I am pleased that the Committee adheres to its priorities. In the context of the increase in marine research and development in 1999, research aimed at strengthening industry profitability, competitiveness and value creation will be a priority. In line with the priorities of St.meld. No 51 for 1997-98, priority research fields will be market, product and process development and improved overall use of raw materials, including: through marine biotechnology. In order for the industry to be competitive, market requirements must be integrated into the whole value chain. Research into consumer behaviour, price formation, competitive conditions in different markets and commercial policy conditions is therefore a key area of action. I have noted the Committee's emphasis on the importance of marine biotechnology and by-products research. Biotechnology offers great opportunities for the development of new products and applications of marine raw materials. The Ministry of Fisheries budget supports biotechnology research both through the research programmes of the Norwegian Research Council and through the funding of the Programme for Marine Biotechnology in Tromsø and the Laboratory for Molecular Marine Biology – the Sars Centre – in Bergen. The Food Development Programme for Marine Species in Breeding was launched in 1997 in order to contribute to the realisation of the nutritional potential of marine species that have not been researched sufficiently and is set up to strengthen these efforts in 1999. The main challenge for resource research in the future is to reduce the uncertainty of scientific advice on the status and development of fish stocks and populations of marine mammals. It is a challenge to further develop and improve calculation models for the most commercially important populations. Monitoring the state of resources and the environment in the sea is costly and the requirements for evidence in this area are increasing. There is therefore a need to develop cost-effective methodologies for monitoring activities. This work will have a high priority in marine research and development in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1160	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1163	In fact, the Minister of Fisheries is to be commended for the fact that an increase has now taken place which makes it possible to start with ‘A sea of opportunity’. Here, there is an enormous potential for value creation, and we still need to further develop the methods of calculating what is sustainable fish harvesting. But then it must be allowed to say that in the Labour Party we are disappointed that the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party and the Right led to a reduction in this area too. In the order of the Workers' Party, they are in the money. With regard to the research fund that a majority of the Workers' Party and the Right voted in favour of establishing in the context of the treatment of the financial position, it is important to point out that the Workers' Party – for the time being we alone – has pointed out in its comments three areas to which this research fund should be committed. It's medical research, it's environmental research and it's marine research. I would therefore like to ask: how does the Minister for Fisheries intend to follow up the further work of setting up the Norwegian Research Fund?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1172	: I thank you for the praise that was given in terms of the Ministry of Fisheries's commitment to research. But let me say that it's not just the Ministry of Fisheries that is paying over the Ministry of Fisheries' budget, it's the entire Government. The entire government is behind the efforts being made here, not least the minister responsible for research in total. This is an overall effort directed towards the marine sector, where it is seen that the value creation potential is significant in the years to come, a potential for value creation that can have a significant national impact, not least in districts. In the case of Norway's research fund adopted here in Stortinget, the government has to look at how we should deal with the areas of activity that have been promoted. But I'm pleased that marine research comes in as a bet area, in line with what the government has also set up. I can tell you – I don't know if the Minister of Church, Education and Research has said that earlier in the debate – that the Government is working on a research report, where research funds are one of the issues. I guess it's not wrong to yell at that, so it looks like government and sprawling are at a wavelength. I think we'll figure out the right bets and come to an agreement with the Storting in that area. Otherwise, I find it a pity that the Workers' Party did not invest any more in cooperation with the Government on the budget, if that is the case that the government's original budget was better than what was the result of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1183	Several have not asked the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1186	Two brief comments first: I hope that the Council of State will comment on what has been drawn from several speakers in the debate on the Loan Fund and fixed interest rates, because there is one thing that concerns – for good reason – a lot of people in these days. A small comment also on the small exchange of views on scholarship positions for private colleges: the principle new thing in this is that the department allocates earmarked posts to institutions that do not receive permanent teaching positions in this way, but through another financial support system. Therefore, I would like to ask that this be presented to the Committee in an appropriate form before a new system is implemented, because it will also be able to easily create precedents in view of the future. The most remarkable feature of this debate is the peculiar disturbance of proportion that has marked the pace of transition of the Workers' Party in this debate. In fact, the priority of school leave seems to be higher than that of school leave, because what is set up for each other in post-intervention posts is the allocation of the school leave scheme within the public system against private school appropriations, for the primary purpose of the school. And if I have understood the message correctly, the Labour Party says that school leave in the public system is more important than school time in the private schools. It's an amazing sort of priority. And it confirms, in my opinion, what was the main reason for the Right's not to go into the law of a school leisure system, namely, that in a very short time you create a very serious delusion, that it is the task of the public to give priority to child care in leisure as part of the education budgets. It is an important purpose, but prioritizing it as if it were an ordinary part of the primary purpose of the school is obviously not right, and it should not be in the future either. It is certainly true and important that the school is trying to solve societal problems in general. But it is even more important to maintain that in Norway we do not have a public school with school responsibilities, and that it is not as the representative Upbeøen Hansen said that we give priority to the public institutions ‘which include all’. They are not all! There are many parents in this country who choose to send their children to Steinerskoler, to Montessori schools, to life-vision schools, and they must have the same rights as other parents – if that is not the freedom of choice you want to live, because the freedom of choice itself is a thorn in the eye if you put a rather ideological view to the point, that it should actually be a duty for everyone to go to public school.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1200	The Council of State asked for clarification of what the Progress Party puts in the majority opinion on the co-location of Søndre Land and Bredtvet. It's pretty easy to get ready. The Progress Party is of the basic opinion that consideration for current users must be given to the debate on centres of expertise and the ability and willingness of employees to move. I would like to remind you that the Progress Party and the Right were the only ones who went in to preserve all the centres of expertise where they are located today, when we adopted this in June. I am somewhat surprised when the Council of State now finds it opportune to tell us that there is much in this matter we do not know. The main issue of the Progress Party, whatever we know or don't know, is to maintain as much of the existing point competence as possible, in the light of the majority decision taken. I'm not going to question the good will of the council regarding Halmrast school and Upperby school. What I have to decide, however, is whether such a mixture of Överby and Halmrast will make it easier to achieve what seems to have been a goal since 1991, namely a complete closure of the offer. And it does not want the Progress Party. At the same time, if the Council of State makes any provision in the majority opinion other than the letter, it assumes no negligible responsibility for the assistance and training required by users if it allows for a closure which would otherwise have been difficult. Then I'll take up one more thing. Proposal No. 20 will be converted into a transmission proposal, and will recommend – if possible – that it can be looked at in the context of the communication on the housing situation for young and disadvantaged people, which is currently being discussed in the Municipal and Regional Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1211	The President has noticed that Mr Evje has made a proposal No. 20 to a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1214	First, let me comment on what Mr Wohnung says. He says that it is not a public task to give child care priority in leisure time. And my truth is that this budget has shown that the Right has been fully impressed by that view, both by a dramatic decline in the expansion of kindergartens and by a dramatic cut in the school leisure system. Then we get to hope that women stand up and go back to the community where mother was at home when the children came from school in the 12th hour in the morning. Unfortunately, it is the Right Party and the Advance Party that push government parties towards their school policy. Education was one of the fantasies of the centre parties in the previous election campaign. In the area by area, dramatic and beautiful changes were to be made to the then government. Now what we have to ask is, where has it become of all these promises? Where has there been a decrease in the number of primary school students, which was one of the taboos? Where has it gone from the escalation to 40 pst. scholarship? There'll be some violent lifting in the last two years if you want to reach it. Where has it been of the million bet — if not billions of bets — on safe school roads, which would be given to the six-year-olds? The Christian People's Party, by its spokesman Lilletun, said in a press release on 14 August 1997 that the Government must immediately guarantee that all 6-year-olds with dangerous school roads are offered free school kisses. Resources must be made available to enable municipalities to provide shelter for those students who will travel on a dangerous school road from the next week. I assume that's why the government now has a budget that gives the municipalities NOK 1 billion less than what would have been possible in a compromise with the Workers' Party. Where has it become of all the election vows, which were so bold that it dripped more of them than of the ribs we get served in the feast that stands before us? If only the heart issues in the education sector had been dropped in favour of all the other choices to be met in terms of transport, roads, the community economy and care for the elderly, it might have been acceptable and perhaps understandable. But that's not the reality either, on the contrary. It is said that there is concern about the lack of political interest of the youth; the youth no longer believes in the politicians. Those who have attended school selections and have seen the promises flying between the walls can see it. But compared to what the centre parties did in the campaign last year, an average school debate becomes as sober as the Christian People's Party Christmas party. Lilletun is also Minister of the Church, and I want to say that the election campaign that was conducted violates one of the commandments given – then Lilletun can find out which. A breach of promises seems to me to be particularly evil. It is promised that students will receive a scholarship to school books in high school. It's a deep injustice that parents and students have to pay maybe $4,000 to $5,000 in school books, when we have as our motto that we should have equal rights to education. That promise is also abandoned. The working party is in a minority with that proposal. SV has also, after the frame was given, left it. I hope the voters will notice this in the municipal election campaign we are going into.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1230	There are many speakers from the Labour Party who today have mentioned the government’s vision, almost as a kneecap for the Right and the Advance Party in school policy. I don't share that view. There is still a good deal left, at least for the Progress Party's school policy. It shows the many proposals put forward by the Progress Party in this budgetary procedure. But there are also a lot of positive moves that we have found to be able to support. Some words about the study and professional counselling. An overall review committee highlighted the importance of youth education and vocational advice during the last year’s budgetary procedure. In the preliminary remarks of the Progress Party and in a concrete proposal during the year's budgetary procedure, this is also the focus. A factor that may be a contribution in the field of vocational and training guidance is the processing of the data programme Road Selection, referred to in the submitted by the Government. Road choices have been used for a number of years, both in schools and in the labour market, but signals I have received indicate that the time is overdue for a significant revision of the programme, both in terms of lack of information and in terms of user-friendliness, which can be significantly improved. Whether the future is in the direction of a database of Internet access, or in the direction of versions that can be used without the Internet, I shouldn't say too safe. At least I am pleased to note that the vast majority of the committee, all but the members of the Right, have found this work to be important. In addition, close contact and cooperation with the labour market in the field of education and vocational guidance is very important. It is perhaps the best way to say something about future needs in the respective industries in the labour market, and the fastest way is to note fluctuations that are happening in the markets. Another theme I want to address is the significant costs we have for teaching foreign languages, in terms of language teaching and teaching in Norwegian. In the State budget, appropriations are made both in the field of primary and secondary education. The Progress Party notes that there would be a significantly less need for subsidies on these items if the bulk of the population had pursued the restrictive immigration policy of the Progress Party. However, we record that this has not been done, and we therefore have a problem. This problem wants to be solved by the Progress Party. We are therefore positive about appropriations earmarked for training in Norwegian for foreign language students. However, we do not believe that appropriations for parenting should be made above public budgets. It is entirely right for parents to want to conduct this type of training, but it cannot be considered a priority public task. It is also the case that mother tongue training will limit the time available to follow Norwegian education.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1247	According to the Labour Party's view, investing in education and research is one of the most important things we can do in a forward-looking district policy. Through an active knowledge policy, we must lay the foundation for innovation, and there is an increased focus on fisheries research. An example of what we have achieved through fisheries research is the production of something called alkaline phosphatase from the tine water to shrimps. The product has a value of several hundred thousand dollars per. grams. If the total market for this product is not so big, then we have a huge resource in what has so far been thrown at the sea, and this is a good example of it. It is obvious that this type of research needs to be given a high priority, and I would like to highlight in particular the importance of the MABIT programme, which is also one of the recommendations of the industrial strategy for North Norway. Both the industry and the research community around MABIT agree that the budget for MABIT needs to increase to 14-16 million. kr per. years to extract the enormous potential we have in this field in Norway. Through higher education and research, we will lay the foundation for new incomes and jobs, but also meet the need for labour, and I will mention doctors and dentists in particular. As far as doctors are concerned, it's dramatic that despite the fact that we've got about. 1 200 new medical positions in Norway for the last three years, have actually been a decrease of six doctors in North Norway. We know, as Svein Ludvigsen also said, that training doctors in the district is the best thing we can do to fill the vacancies. It was a pleasure that the government found room to grant $40 million. kr for the development of RiTø, but at the same time the University has made the assumption when they said yes to increased admission in the autumn, that both the RiTø and the MH building will be further developed. I hope that the Council of State Lilletun will be able to reply to me later today on how far the planning work has come, and whether there are any concrete plans for development. In the case of dentists, the situation is even more precarious if possible. The coverage is small, and the penetration is large. With today's training capacity in dentistry, there will be a shortage of between 500 and 600 year-olds in Norway in 2015. So anyway, there's a need to increase the capacity of dentists. A working group of the Ministry of Social Affairs has been set up in cooperation with the KUF, including the following: shall describe the current situation in North Norway and the ongoing establishment of dental studies in Tromsø. Unfortunately, the government parties do not agree with the Workers' Party's and SV's wording that dental training at the University of Tromsø may be a necessary measure to increase access to doctors in North Norway. There would have been an important signal about the State Council of Lilletun yet today could say something about his position on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1266	I think the debate today has been quite predictable. The Workers' Party claims that the public education offer is cut and the private priority is given. Individual schemes are given priority over Community solutions, says the Workers' Party, while the Right is running a diffuse quality campaign without clarifying their content in the concept of learning and knowledge. I record that the Christian People's Party and the other centre parties are being accused of a line break. I will reject that. The Christian People's Party still wants an equivalent training offer in the framework of the single school. The economic environment involves a prioritisation of higher education and basic research. Yes, and then the Church gets a little bit more, and I think that's a pleasure. And the Workers' Party is over. The Christian People's Party represents a family policy that prioritises increased freedom of choice for the young children's parents. This is not surprising. Nor can it be said to be a line break. But the unanswered question is how the Workers' Party would cut to agree with the Right on an introduction of cash support. That question is unanswered. Then the representative Løvik challenged the Christian People's Party on the content of the unit school concept. The installation reminded me of some sort of allergic reaction to the term. The Christian People's Party has a good relationship with that concept. We're talking about the compulsory primary school, we're talking about an equivalent school offer with emphasis on the individual student's development and learning. The offer shall be independent of gender, geography, social background and economy, and we shall talk about a school within the framework of a national curriculum with room for local adaptation. In the debate, the Labour Party and the representative Norvoll have accused the Christian People's Party of destroying the Unitary School. Then I do not understand why the Right and the representative Løvik are concerned. The truth is that the Christian People's Party stands on its own policy and implements it. We focus on school content and equivalent training. We're working on a decentralised school structure. We want to focus on quality in education and research and on skills building across the country, including: through increased appropriations for the regional research foundations. We are facing major challenges in the education system. The Christian People's Party will be involved in shaping Norwegian education policy in the future. A budget decision is part of a larger mosaic that shows how the Christian People's Party will shape an educational society for the next millennium.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1283	The representative Gisk was within a little walk and swung violently. He told me that we had now left our promise to all of us, and it went to free schoolbooks for high school students. The actual ratio is that it is likely to cost between 300 million. NOK 500 million and 500 million. to introduce such a system. A selection that KS put down, calculated it to cost between 300 million and 400 million. A couple of years ago, so I'm assuming it's going to cost between 300 million. NOK 500 million and 500 million. kr, a little depending on how a rains. That's the actual situation, and we added this to our original budget proposal -- it was a set-up for free school books. Then we're told that we've left this because we're not now following up a It doesn't give free schoolbooks to everyone, unfortunately. But I can promise that we'll come back to the free school book scheme in the next budget proposal, and then we'll see if Trond Giske and the others are involved in granting what is needed to implement such a scheme. A majority proposes two new basic courses. I feel the need to comment on it a little bit. We in SV can already say that we are prepared to go in for a basic course in the media and communication. It's a new basic course, a course we've asked for a long time. We know that there is a need for this within this new field of study, and that there is a need to establish a basic course within VK I and VK II and possibly also with a curriculum for apprenticeships, perhaps – we will see that. When it comes to breaking up one of the basic courses we have today, we believe that the place to do so is not in a budget debate two to three months before we are going to have an evaluation of reform 94. We also see the need for a new basic course. I am not sure whether it is going to be a commercial subject, but I am quite convinced that it should not be a basic course to create labour for companies that can assemble and organise the annexes, as the representative Løvik was concerned about. I think that the new basic course within this area will go in a slightly different direction than the old trade and office, which was completed in connection with Reform 94. So if they're not for this, even though we're basically completely too already, we're getting a new basic course in the media and communication. The council did not answer my question instead about a conversion unit. I hope he can do that, because I assume that in the case of such a conversion unit, which will last until the year 2000, there may be a need to implement measures that cost some money, such as early retirement. The Ministry does not currently have the power to enter into such arrangements, so I hope that the Council of State may confirm that he will return to the audit, if necessary, with an arrangement so that the Storting can make the necessary decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1294	Let me first place a small visit to the post now last. He said a lot strange, but at least what he obviously didn't understand was that the school leisure system was part of the total package around Reform 97. But there is no unknown concept that the Workers' Party and the Right are on different frequencies in terms of education policy, so I find no reason to go into any violent polemics with him about it. But he said something I agree with, and as the Council of State should note, we have not received a good explanation as to why the recruitment grant programme will also apply to the private colleges. I would like to support the representative in calling on the Council of State to present it to the Committee in an appropriate form before making any changes to that system. The Labour Party is concerned that there is a need to focus on two things in education policy, and especially in higher education. One is that we need to invest in strong regional centres of competence and education, with decentralised education. Then it is important not to tear away the ground under these centres that are located in the regions. It is important to establish new courses, new offers, to look at the division of labour in the Norwegian network and not to do anything that could destroy the established environments around the country. To date, there has been an unconditional success in providing high-level education to the districts, in the regions. But if you start to tear away the foundation of it, it'll be very unfortunate for the regions, which I'm worried about. The representative Lyngstad was concerned that we did not know what the cuts would be like if the Workers' Party were to negotiate with the Right. We never got to see that, but I can guarantee that we wouldn't have seen the same cuts that you now see. We never experienced that situation, because as the government actually discovered that they could actually have to leave the taboos, they panicked. They panicked completely and ran across their heads right in the arms of the Progress Party and drilled their face so far down into the trap of Carl I. Hagen and his party traps as they could only handle. With regard to the Workers' Party's cut in the appropriations for the private schools, I can't understand that it's worse than the cuts made by the bourgeois parties in the public schools. Public schools are also governed by laws and regulations on the nature of the offer, and not least they are governed by decisions taken and agreements concluded here in the house. We have only to note that the agreements, the positions and the decisions that were previously behind the centre parties have now been abandoned and jumped straight into the arms of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1307	The committee leader said in his last post that the center today uses muscles to defend the budget. Yeah, it was supposed to be missing, I thought that was the point of a budget debate, that we're justifying why we've done it, and why we've prioritised things like that – for good and for bad. It is quite clear that the Workers' Party has also today pointed out the Center Party as a main target. Maybe that's the way you discipline the one you love. But to present it as if the Central Party's programme for education and school were almost identical to that of the Workers' Party, that's wrong. We have our own program, and I can offer the representatives to read what's in our program, and then see that what I've claimed and defended here is completely in line with that. We are in favour of a strong public sector. But we also want a diversity, and that's why we think it's right that private schools are also right. I also remind you that the Workers' Party and the Right introduced the six-year-olds' school start, against the wishes of the centre parties and the majority of the people, and also against the opinions of many trade unions. But this is talking about the snow that fell last year, so I'll quickly go over to something else, but since other parties have done so, I fell for the temptation to follow in the same track. So another thing. I noticed that the Workers' Party and SV in particular have been running a quite active process with regard to the threat of closure of the branch schools, and it is serious. But as far as the Workers' Party's concerns are concerned, I must say that I agree with the leader of the nation, who characterises this as crocodile tears. For everyone knows that a threat of school closure does not come in a year, but is the result of a longer-term budgeting. It is the responsibility of all of us who have been involved in decision-making and structural measures over the last few years, including the conversion of municipal transfers. Recent surveys in the nations show that the Norwegian Teachers' Team's study, based on the advice of the councillors on the school closure, was somewhat nuanced, because of 35 decommissioned schools by the councillors, the number is seven after the politicians have spoken. It tells me that local politicians have a good sense, and they make their judgements. I think it is important that we here in Stortinget also take seriously, and that we do not rush into criticism until we see what it has ended up with. We agreed to present a tight budget, we are responsible for it in the Central Party, but unfortunately it is a fact that there was no majority for it, so that we could have secured even more to the public sector, as the starting point was for us.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1318	Of course, the government party is on its own and for the budgetary agreement that we have made. Of course, we're defending what's there, otherwise we wouldn't go into it. But it must still be allowed to say that cut would have come equal to what plural constellation one got. And when it comes to the private schools, the Labour Party probably had to think that they had to give a lot of money in a possible deal with the Right, because as well as I know the Right, they wouldn't give them the principles on the boat even if it was the Workers' Party they were going to cooperate with. So when one says here that it wouldn't have been affected by the budget that the Labour Party was going to present, it doesn't think it's goal. So a few words about it with grant options for private colleges. This has been a longtime desire for the Government to follow up, and there are warnings in St. pp. No 1st@item: There is no comment in the budget setting, I have just checked. But since both the representative, Mr Wohnning and Mr Norvoll, are addressing this issue, I am concerned that we are implementing it this year as a temporary arrangement, that we are discussing it and that the Committee is going to discuss it in the context of the research report, so that they can see it in a broad context. Then one could get a safe treatment that would satisfy all the parties. So a little bit about medical training. It is obvious that there is a success in medical training in North Norway. The government actually tried to get them to take more students than they could take this year. So we didn't close it down, so part of the student survey is now located abroad. But I'm set up in the budget now to allocate more places, and that's also why you've seen the expansion you have. When it comes to clinic capacity, I hope that one in North Norway can go into the same model as one in the West, to use several hospitals until RiTø can be further expanded. When it comes to the dental study, I want to see the results before I comment on it more. If there are huge costs associated with creating a faculty of our own, we might feel better about strengthening them in other areas and increasing the number of students at the faculties we already have. But I'll come back to that when we get this statement. Then there have been some questions about fixed interest rates. What I can confirm is that we're working on a bomb in order to do it, but with all due respect for the representative's salary: one cannot compare the Loan Box with any building bank. There are 770,000 clients to be treated by 300 case handlers, and one is required to take responsibility for the 2000 problem first, and one cannot implement a fixed-rate scheme with the social schemes in the Loan Fund. Now we're trying to find another way. We're not quite done with the distribution, but we're working on a bomb to make it as early as possible. This is announced in the revised national budget. There were no comments at that time, but because we know that the Storting and the Committee are impatient, we're working on bombing, and we're going to do what we can to make it happen. But, finally, it must be allowed to say that think if one had followed the center party in this case. Then the problem would not have arisen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1331	After all, it was a prerequisite when we introduced market interest rates, that we should also have a fixed bonding of the interest rate in the Loan Fund. The students have now been tricked – at least those who are finished, because it is only when they pay their study loan – because they cannot bind the interest rate. I would like to ask the Council of State to assess whether it is possible that, when this system is finally completed, it can have retroactive effect, so that those who want to bind their interest rate can start from the last quarter of this year. Because that's only when it's going to work. We're assuming that the interest rate will go down next year, how much you don't know. But it looks like it would go a long way if the governor didn't get instructions to lower the signal rate, which he should have got at my discretion. But if he doesn't get it and you're going to stick to today's currency policy, it'll take his time before interest falls, and I don't think it should be paid for by our youth. We should make sure that a binding becomes retroactive – and I want that to be assessed by the Council of State. Otherwise, I'd like to take up the school book situation at primary school. I have received many reports that it is not satisfactory. Among other things, I've heard about 5th grade classes where there are only three textbooks in the new Christian science, so you don't have enough textbooks, for example. in that profession. The workbooks cannot be written in; they must draw the crosswords and create their own workbooks. They just get the books as a model, and it's very unsatisfactory. I wish the Council of State could also do something in this area, without it costing the schools too much work to report. They have so much work to report back to the department and the level above them that they take a disproportionate amount of time and effort from the teachers and the administration in the schools. Otherwise, I will stop saying something positive about the government. I'm really glad that you're re-establishing the medical training at SiA. It was closed by a Right-State Council in its time, and I am now very happy that it seems that this medical training will be restored. That means a lot to Akershus. In Akershus there are as many people as it lives in the whole of North Norway together, and there are thousands of new Akershus citizens who want to live with us every year.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1340	Grete Knudsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1343	First, a brief remark to the representative Arne Lyngstad, who spoke hotly for freedom of choice without defining what he means by it, what values he uses, what investigations you even built on when you came up with the cash support, and who it becomes a real freedom of choice for. The same applies to the values and estimates underlying the reduction in the school leave scheme and the estimates behind the 50 million reduction. kr for educational material. However, it is surprising today to read the Municipal Report, where the Council of State is now preparing to find 50 million dollars. kr, from the discretionary pot to remedy the schools proposed for closure. What assessments will he base, which municipalities are the ones that are to be prevented from leaving schools, are the deprived municipalities, or are they the ones that have made their professional judgements and yet have strong local economy? I hope that the Council of State will clarify this before we leave this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1350	No pay has had the word twice, and gets the word to a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1354	A minor correction to the information provided by the representative of Dørum on medical training at SiA. It's not right that it was closed by a Right-State Council. It was created for a time-limited period and was completed within the time-limited period that was always the prerequisite. That there is today a need to resume that part of medical training is excellent. A brief note of the Council's response regarding the grant scheme. I assume that no decision has been taken in this case as long as the Storting has not taken any budget decision, and will therefore prefer if the Council of State does not put in place a separate review scheme until the principles that I requested have been clarified. So finally, a note on the question of fixed interest. It is clear that the Storting decision has made this a prerequisite for the interest rate reform. And it's not acceptable to blame neither for the year 2000 issue nor for any other problem inside the Loan Fund from the Council of State at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1363	The representative Lyngstad was in a previous post that Right misunderstands this with quality. The representative said that the learning environment is both quality and care. Yes, of course, I agree with this, but I can't quite see where the difference is between these elements. There have also been questions from the same representative about the knowledge circulation, and there are those who love to make it so that the Right School is a cold doggy school without anything else. It is also, of course, wrong. We're going to have factual knowledge at the bottom, but both creativity, cooperation and social relationships are important elements in the Right's knowledge school. But let me make it quite clear that without the facts, without the knowledge at the bottom, it's kind of meaningless. And those who want to suffer the most from a school that doesn't focus on knowledge at the bottom, it's the weak students who don't have a community that stimulates, helps and builds up knowledge in other ways. So the best distribution policy we can have is a school policy that focuses on knowledge at the bottom. Then the State Council was Lilletun thinking that Lånekassa is not a building bank. Of course, there must be agreement, but the House Bank can do this. And then the Council of State said that if we had got it the way the middle parties wanted, we had a politically governed interest rate! Yes, it was an alternative, but if we had today a politically driven interest rate like monna so that it really was a lower interest rate, it would mean huge spending on our budget. And when we know that both the council and his party are closest to crying in their throats, they've managed to happen some single millionaires here and there, this would be a lot harder. There was one thing I didn't get the time to say in my previous post, simply to express joy that we can now help our foreign students a bit on the way when it comes to free return. We've had a 50 pst system in the past. scholarship on two trips, we are now going up to 70 pst this year. on two trips, and the goal is that on the next crossroads we will complete the full scholarship in two trips. Finally, a little visit to the representative of Ulf Erik Knudsen, who obviously has both the joy and the benefit of reading Right's program. It's of the jobs that I thought the Progress Party should spend a greater part of the time on. But I can assure the representative Mr Knudsen, who questioned whether we would follow up our own programme, that it is clear that we are following our own programme, that is why we are here, and since one of the proposals from the Progress Party is quite close to our wording, we will of course vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1376	It was the representative of Tingelstad who lured me to ask for the floor again. She wonders about the Workers' Party's criticism of the Center Government, and the Center Party in particular, is a result of the fact that the one you love is disciplined. I don't ignore that even though Tingelstad didn't quite hit the nail on his head, so at least in the vicinity, because we might have more expectations for the Center Party than for many others. Some of us actually had expectations that some of the promises, some of the visions, some of the thoughts that the Center Party presented in the opposition, were actually meant to be honest. Some of us were so naive that we thought. In the Gudbrandsdølen Dagningen Monday December 1st, 1997 there is a very difficult look with the representative Tingelstad, where the title is «Hån v. Centerpartiet». ‘It’s a mockery when a government’s Central Party is involved in Kutter’s $20 million share of adult education funds. It considers that the party’s representative from Oppland, Marit Tingelstad.’; Now I'm going to leave just that heading and that point, because we're not going to keep choking the Center Party, as we seem to love them. On the other hand, I'm going to quote something else that Tinkelstad says here: ‘Personally, I am very concerned about the framework conditions for higher education.’ Yes, then the representative Tingelstad could join in supporting the Workers' Party's proposal to grant more to decentralised education. Tingelstad also says: ‘And I am particularly concerned about the economy of the College of Smallhammer. In addition, the textbook situation, including in secondary school, is currently unresolved.» It is still unresolved, thanks to the fact that the Workers' Party's proposal on free school books in secondary school does not receive the support of the representative Tingelstad. Then the Tingelstad article ends with saying the following: «Rightly, the Sp supports the cash support scheme, but not uncritically.The working party is quite right when it claims that the consequences are not sufficiently addressed. If, for example, the scheme undermines the kindergarten coverage, it falls.» Now we know that kindergarten development is reduced from 12,500 to 2,500 places. One must return to Kåre Willoch's days as prime minister to find a lower kindergarten expansion. We hear from one district after another that district kindergartens are in danger, destroyed and disappear because of the cash support. If the child care coverage is undermined, the cash support falls, said Tingelstad. The conclusion should be a good thing to draw.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1410	Rolf Rikvam has had the word twice and gets the word to a short comment limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1413	A little comment to Petter Løvik, who said that we had a politically controlled interest rate now, there had been large counts. Yeah, that's what's the actual ratio, and that's what's why we need a politically driven interest rate. It is unreasonable that those who have completed a long education now get a heavy burden, that we transfer the burden to one and only to those who have taken training. That's the unreasonable thing, and that's why we need a politically driven interest rate, where we can distribute the burden in a more reasonable way. We in SV are also followers of a fixed interest rate, but it must not appear to be anything seductive, seductive – I think it is important to stress. The fact is, those who commit to a fixed interest rate are often the ones who are left as losers, we know that from the private banking system. So there's something seductive, sedentary, it's not, but it would be a good solution today for those who had the opportunity to choose a relatively low interest rate. The only way to clean this up is to introduce a policy-driven interest rate.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1420	I noticed that the Council of State Lilletun did not answer the question that the representative Grete Knudsen had about the look-up in the Municipal Report today, and that I understand the Council of State has been in a post here today, that one is now going to prevent school closure by taking off the discretionary pot and earmarking parts of the discretionary pot. The representative Knudsen asked which schools this is about. In which municipalities are they located? Is it the case that the schools that the Government will try to'save' are located in the least favoured municipalities? The reason why we want to have an answer to that question is that the Storting has clearly said from the point of view of the verdict that it should be real judgement. That means it's the municipalities that are the worst, that's going to take off that pot. If these schools are located in those municipalities, of course it's their case, but if these schools are not located in the most disadvantaged municipalities, it's a breach of Storting's assumptions. That's why it's vital for us to know where the government is going to take that money from, what municipalities they're going to let them fall into, and what schools we're talking about here. It's important that someone knows that, because we've ordered the government to come back with a review of the referee just because for too many years we've seen that it hasn't been used judgement, but that there's been too much automation in it. And it's a little bit weird if the government is going to try to save schools because you haven't been able to get into a budget that's to live with too many municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1425	Marit Tingelstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1428	Yes, there was a lot of snow falling last year – now it was one said last December to be defended. I stand for what I said last year – because it was 1997 Giske talked about – about it with the colleges. They've got better framework conditions than last year, so in that area we've fulfilled the promise. Higher education has been better counted. As far as textbooks and the AUF drive are concerned, it's quite strange. I know that they're in favour of lending school books, which the student organisations don't give priority to, because they want a school box grant. I agree with the student organisations. But we haven't made it clear yet because we have the economic situation we have. And the third thing they do is they are now going into the debate on another framework area, namely kindergartens, which is not within this framework area. But I have to stand for what I've said there, too. If it is true that there is not as much demand for nursery facilities as it was intended last year, it may come about that more than provided for in the cash support scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1437	Petter Løvik has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1440	The representative, Rikvam, said that if we are to get a low interest rate, it must be politically governed. In theory, yes, in practice it shows how short SV's memory is. We're going no more than two or three years back, at that time interest rates were politically governed and so high that many converted their loans into private banks to get them lower. So the payroll of a policy-driven interest rate is for the students and those who have finished studying, at best, a situational salary. This is why, together with the majority of the population, we have opted for a market-driven interest rate combined with fixed interest rates as an alternative, so that students know what they have to do – not just have to stick to more or less random political decisions made by changing constellations. The size has said this clearly. It's the council's job to follow it up, and I hope most people have done it once or twice today and many times before.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1445	Tomas Norvoll has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1449	First, I would like to underline what is going on: now, at some point, the Council of State has to quickly get its finger out and make sure that there is an opportunity to bind the interest rate. Then we register that the representative Tingelstad believes she has followed up her promises, despite the fact that everyone could hear in the change of words here that she does not have it. What she also forgets is that she promised more to teach, but that she herself is involved in cutting educational material both in high school and in primary school. Finally, I am going to be a little pleasant: I record that the Minister for Fisheries has been responsible and listened to the debate, and the debate has been very little about fish. I just want to say that we in the Workers' Party are very pleased that the project 'A sea of opportunity' is now receiving funds – as the Workers' Party proposed in its time, and as a centre removed last year – from the state budget. There is nothing we can do but congratulate the Minister for Fisheries on having had an impact on the Government for the important investment in fisheries research.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1458	To the representative Tomas Norvoll: the expression ‘get out your finger’ does not appear to fit the President in this Chamber. Arne Lyngstad has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1463	The reason why I'm taking the floor now at the bottom of the debate is that I'm actually a little surprised by the Workers' Party's critical questions about the use of the discretionary pot for poor communities, which are at risk of leaving cross-border schools. It has not been many days since the Workers' Party called for an orientation here and was very concerned about school dropouts in the municipalities. Now I think the Labour Party has to clarify: what are they going to do? Do they want to save the small schools or not? What are the double messages that the Workers' Party is now beginning to broadcast?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1468	Trond Giske has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1471	A comment to Marit Tingelstad, who says she responds to the ‘very’ drive to the Workers’ Party in terms of free school books in high school. Interestingly, it seems strange that we see that there is a problem for a lot of parents and students that they spend thousands of dollars every single harvest of books that could have been used again, that it's strange that we think it's contrary to the goal of equal education. The problem is that we actually shared that strangeness with the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in every school debate throughout the election campaign in 1997 – not by saying that you should have free school books, but by distributing scholarships for which the students were to buy school books. I wish we could use the majority that exists in this room, to do something for the students, to do something for the parents and to do something to get equal rights to education. Regrettably, you ally yourself on another team.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1481	A good number of speakers from the Workers' Party have been busy with unfulfilled promises, and they have attacked the Government and Tingelstad representatives. It's quite clear that in some areas they're right. For the first time, this applies to a four-year period. Secondly, it is obvious that no one could predict last year – it could be the Labour Party or the Government – that we would need the tight budget that we received this year. That's why there's a lot of other stuff going on. I thought it was an actual one that could also be accepted. So let's do it with fixed rates. It is clear that it is my responsibility to have it implemented, and I am working on a bomb to make it. But I have to say that those who were in charge of government responsibility at the time it was agreed, should also have checked – no prior investigations had been carried out – how much work was required to carry out fixed interest rates, and how it was right to do so. It's a statement from my side of the committee. I'm trying to find simpler solutions and I'm going to implement it as soon as it's justified in relation to the 2000 problem, and I hope it's going to be quite quick. But it is therefore necessary that I take that responsibility and the rest, but of course I will comply with what is decided in the majority. It's not that it would now have cost more with a policy-driven interest rate, because even if it had now fallen, it would have gone up slowly again in the five-year term. It went down slowly, but it would also have gone up slowly. That's why we would actually have a low interest rate no for politically driven interest rates. But now it's not that reality, because it was abolished. This was just an actual information. So to that sniper that many people have said something about. What is the reality there is that in comparison with the Right and the Advance Party it was 50 million. extra kr to the hamlet. There will be a letter to municipalities that are not completely finished, which will of course be based on the Storting's statements that there will be a real understanding, not an allocation, based on a particular type of priority, to those who have a good economy. But that letter from the Ministry of Local Affairs is not finished, so I can't put it here. But, of course, Stortinget should keep an eye on its intentions. I hope we can be happy that part of the deal actually gave us 50 million. kr more in mind, which can now save a good portion of these crossbows. In addition, there is work in progress in relation to the criteria, because criteria are also partly due to this consequence. I'm very pleased with the commitment that the Labour Party has had to the bulk of this budgetary procedure. It has never happened before. That's where I'm going to say I'm very happy for the commitment that's coming. So to the scholarship holders. After the Storting's allocation in the revised national budget, allocations have been made on the basis of the money we had in the budget this year. When it applies in the future, I will present this in the research notice, so that the committee can deal with it in principle.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1503	Before we continue on the list of speakers, Marit Tingelstad will have the floor to clarify a misunderstanding. The President hopes it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1506	I'm sorry if what I said was perceived as running towards free schoolbooks. It was school book loans I meant to say, and I think that's what I said, too, we'll see that in the minutes. And then I'm on what I said. It was a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1511	I am pleased that the Council of State is resolving the question of a bet. But in the same article in the Kommunal Report, he also expresses his opinion on the so-called activity plan – 70 million. He says – and he hopes that the reallocation of the 70 million to municipalities that do not have enough money to make a living at the health level for the elderly will release money to the schools. But that's not the case, because it's clear that municipalities that can't afford a proportion of the activity plan, they don't have any surplus money to keep schools. This government is used to swallow camels, and here they try again on camel piss. I'll ask the Council of State to justify what he means by the 70 million. kr to activity plans, as stated in the Municipal Report.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1516	On a direct question, I'll solve it. If one hadn't received these 70 million, it could have been that one laid down schools in order to be able to meet the performance plan so that one could get the other government funds out. This flexibility, which has come in here, avoids the need to get rid of existing activities, such as: the school structure, in order to obtain state resources in relation to the health plan, the old age plan, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1522	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1049]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1536	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1083]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1550	As a spokesman for the matter, I'm just going to make a few brief comments. The one comment applies to the school leisure scheme. So the government thinks it's necessary to increase the amount of time spent on school leave for the current year by 5 million. kr. The Committee has no comment on whether this is true of the crown sum, but it is striking and strange that this evening the Stortinget will make an increase for 1998, and then, in the next round – i.e. for the 1999 budget – to reduce the budget by 137 million. kr. One can rightly ask questions about what remains of this scheme or whether there will still be a great deal of activity in the school leisure scheme in 1999. If that happens, I wonder what kind of supplementary calculation the size must allow at this time the next fall when we are going to deal with the proposition on changes to the state budget for 1999. I shall not go further in this matter, but just refer to what Mr Dørum said in his speech during the debate earlier today. When the notes apply, they are shown in the setting. The Committee has no comments or amendments to the Government's proposal for budgetary changes. The Committee agrees with the amendment tabled by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1565	I'm going to try to clarify what's the reason why we're now proposing $5 million. kr more versus that of the year's budget. A specified rate is determined from the expected created school-advantages, where a higher need is met. Now, what's going to do is regulate the rates with respect to the budget proposal, and it makes sense that the next year can come up with a bomb with a little plus or minus, depending on the number of places that might be created. But then the rates are in proportion, so that it shouldn't be as dramatic as it is now being produced.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1572	I actually asked for the floor to reply to Mr Hansen's representative. I've already noted that I find it strange that the largest party in the country is making almost the entire budget for the field of education a continuous leisure activity. It is even more remarkable to take the opportunity to do so retrospectively. Of course, cuts in the school leisure system can be of varying importance, but it is quite easy to see that what is the effect of the grant decision that will be taken today is exactly what the Council of State said. There is no statutory allocation of expenditure under the school leave scheme. Of course, if the government appropriations go down somewhat, then the other shares have to be adjusted accordingly. More complicated, it's hardly.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1577	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1083]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1585	We are therefore ready for voting in case No. 1-3.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1592	A total of 26 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 8, by Grete Knudsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 2, by Rolf Rikvam, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 3 – 7, by Grete Knudsen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 9, from Arne Lyngstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left Proposals No. 10 – 26, from Ursula Evje on behalf of the Progress Party The President first refers to proposal No. 7 by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, and proposal No. 23, from the Progress Party. These are in their form transmission proposals. The proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party reads: ‘It is recommended that the Government return to the Research Communication with proposals for closer cooperation and coordination between the regional research foundations and colleges.’ The proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government examine actions with a view to making operational expenditure and basic appropriations visible by the institutions financed by the Ministry. Furthermore, clarification of quality assurance systems is requested for the same institutions.» In the course of the debate, there is also proposal No. 20, from the Progress Party turned into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government make proposals to amend the House Bank’s rules on loans for the construction of student and student housing, so that projects in areas under land pressure and high land prices are not jeopardized by the House Bank’s loan rules.’ The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will then address the minority proposals outside the framework of the 1999 budget. The proposal for a decision in the framework area 17 and its proposals shall then be put to the vote. Finally, the proposal for a decision outside the framework area, with the remaining proposals, is being put to the vote. – No objections have been raised, and this is what will be done. It is then voted on the proposals Nos. 10-14, 16-19, 21-22, 24 and 26, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up regulations for the school leisure scheme, based on the experience of the Sund municipality of Hordaland and Sund municipality. This is a school holiday scheme based on parents’ own specific needs in terms of capacity, manning and opening hours. The school leisure system shall be self-financing and parent-run.’;» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to amend Sections 2 to 7 and 6 to 8 of the Training Act so that language grants to these groups cease and that these groups receive adequate training in Norwegian.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a broad evaluation of Reform 97, including among municipalities, schools, teachers and parents who were not positive in implementing the reform.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a modified funding model in primary school, so that the money follows the student – a single price – rather than the framework finance, and that all primary public schools are transformed into independent economic units with their own boards. Private primary and home schooling with professional secrecy shall be treated in the same way as public primary schools.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: «The government asks the Government to propose a modified funding model for secondary schools, so that the money follows the student – a single price – instead of the framework funding. Public secondary schools become autonomous economic units with their own boards. Private secondary schools shall be treated as public when it comes to financial matters.’;» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to maintain high-risk cross-border schools by allowing parent groups, individuals or other interested parties to apply to the Director of Education for this purpose and by withdrawing the estimated proportion of the municipal framework grant for the children concerned from the municipality and channelling the Director of Education into an established Management Board. The composition of the Management Board shall consist of parents, teachers, other staff and representatives of the Director of Education. [[e]] The Executive Director shall have a majority of the Management Board.’;» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the laws and regulations on the employment of educational institutions, in order to facilitate the adaptation of the workforce to the needs of the individual educational institution at all times.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to introduce rules to ensure that students who have been found unfit or unfit for a profession in teacher, health and social education cannot continue the same training at another school.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to promote the necessary legislative and regulatory changes in order to deduct the tax return on interest and repayment on student loans.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the introduction of a new system of financial grants to universities and higher education institutions, based on the principle of unit price compliance.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that Norwegian universities and colleges be converted into autonomous foundations.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government to submit proposals for the repeal of the Law of 19 June 1997 No. 83 [[on music and cultural schools]] Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the legislation on the granting of support for adult education within the study associations with a view to concentrating state-subsidised activities in this sector on the courses which are clearly vocational and competent. The course of a hobby character shall not be supported.»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1708	Proposals Nos. 15 and 25, from the Party of Advancement to voting. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to take the necessary steps to improve guidance/advisory at secondary school.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the introduction of professional qualifications in all subjects at school from 5th grade onwards.’ The right has said that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1731	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 8, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a National Trade Council for Indoor Climate and Learning Environment to assist the Ministry in the guidance of municipalities and user groups of schools and kindergartens.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1747	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3 – 6, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is requested to provide the Stortinget with a wide-ranging report on the state of school and higher education at regular intervals, in which conditions such as content, performance of education, equality, continuing education for teachers, physical disability, the working environment of pupils and differences between municipalities, regions and educational institutions are assessed from a national and international perspective.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to present a separate case on the basis of school closures in the municipalities. It is particularly important for a person to be discussed the causes of closure and the role and responsibilities of the State. The size should be given the opportunity to discuss the matter well in advance of the revision of the national budget.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to launch extended adult contact trials in particularly vulnerable schools.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide an overview of the costs of upgrading public school buildings in order to meet the requirements of the Regulation on environmental health protection in kindergartens and schools launched on 1 January 1996. The summary must include a plan on how to comply with the requirements and the State funding contribution in question.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e1778	It is then votered over the 17th framework area. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, by the Socialist Left Party, then by proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, and finally, on the proposal for a decision under the Framework Area 17. The proposal from the Socialist Left is as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e6043	The proposal from the Workers' Party reads:
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e14492	The Socialist Left Party will vote against, and the Labour Party supports the vote subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e14510	Under this Roman numeral, proposal No remains. 9, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the establishment of basic courses that focus on commercial subjects and media/communication’.» Alternatively, between the X and proposal No. 9th@item: inlistbox The working party, the progress part and the right are behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e14554	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-10.ana.ud2210e16928	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed.
