ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e54	From the representative Berit Brørby there is an application for leave from 7 December to 9 December to attend the Bureau meeting of the Nordic Council and the Children's Conference in the Nordic Council of Stockholm. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Kjell Ivar Fossnes, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e74	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office for today’s meeting – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e79	I suggest Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e84	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is unanimously elected President. Before the proceedings are brought, the President will propose that the Storting should depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and vote collectively after the case has been brought. 1 and 2 on the current map have been completed, and then total voting on case No. 3-5 at the end of today's meeting. - No objections to the President's proposal, and it is deemed to have been adopted. Before case No. 1 is recorded, the President will inform you that this position has not been beyond the regulatory period — i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Rule 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. – No objections have been raised – and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e102	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 15 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from main speakers from each party group and after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e113	The starting point for criminal policy must be the victim's situation. We have to ask ourselves how the victims of crime experience our legal community, and then we have to answer whether that's how we want it, or not. And if we don't want it this way, we have to be willing to change something, both instruments, money use and laws. Those who say that the crime scene is exaggerated and that only has anticonceptions about all the solutions that are being promoted say at the same time that the victims are experiencing today is something they have to count on, and something we have to find out about. I don't want it like that, and the Right is willing to try out large and small measures to show that the victims have the right to much better protection than today. This is about something far more than compensation for victims of violence. It just comes as a tiny patch on the wound, in retrospect. Ask the parents of the children who were robbed about what this is about. A 13-year-old was robbed with a knife on Karl Johan: No adults who passed by helped him The police didn't have time to accept the report when they met up at the Oslo Police Chamber It took over two years from the raid to the juveniles were put before Oslo Byrett In the meantime, the youth boy performed a series of grotesque, terrifying rants – and is aimed at rape. The boy had no one to seek protection from threats of reprisals from the crowd, and as it approached the testimony, the boy became physically ill, unable to go to school. For the last two years the boy has barely slept a good night, and the child's doctor refused him to stand still in court if he had to meet the «ten-headed troll» face to face. The ‘tenth troll’ are five hard-boiled, violent young criminals and five of the country’s best defense lawyers in black robes – sitting in a row – against a single child, who must take the floor alone. The fear of represals, the fear of being recognized in the street, the fear of being ‘exposed’ in front of scornful overtooks with support players in the stands, are feelings no children should experience. In this very special case, the judge closed the court and sent them out, but at the same time informed that it was uncertain whether the law provided sufficient grounds for this. The other children who asked for the same treatment received no – a new victory for the perpetrators. The victims withdrew, and the actor had to resign because of the position of the evidence. Parents have told about representatives of the judiciary and other professionals who know the gangs, who have recommended the children not to stand by the reports, because it becomes too dangerous. Several cases were brought before the courts, and the fears of the witnesses have become the main weapons of the robbers. In the adult world, we have a parallel development. Mafia environments with mafia methods threaten police as well as victims, and as a representative in the intelligence section said, if this continues, we are in a situation where ‘we know everything, but no one is convicted’. In the last year, the Judicial Committee has gained an in-depth knowledge of the conditions that give me such expressions as I have described. The Kripos report on the crime scene in 1998 and the half-yearly report of the Oslo Police Chamber for 1998 are two fresh reports documenting the same reality. That is why we must act. We can't pretend to be exaggerations, find ourselves in the fact that criminal reactions the Storting is asking for, not being followed up, or believing that the situation goes over if we close our eyes and sit still. It is gratifying that the Right Party and the Advance Party have been able to turn the centre parties in the right direction with regard to the allocation and draft decisions relating to the budget. Well, the majority of the committee's going to be 100 million. Healthy DKK for operation in the Oslo Police Station and pressed regions in order to increase the number of people in the streets to receive the search reports and to enable cases to be sent to courts at a much greater rate than at present. In addition, we grant 20 million fresh people to the courts, concentrated on bottlenecks that allow the ranes and others to go free and threaten their victims, and that leave most people with an impression that assaults are not being met with reaction. It is particularly important for young offenders to meet the Court of Justice quickly, and a faster way of getting them to justice, by means of supplementary appropriations, to be given high priority. In addition to the 20 healthy millions, it is the government’s responsibility that a sufficient proportion of the government budget’s wages – then I think of the various items to go to pay negotiations – be used for the alerted adjustment of the judges’ salaries to keep and recruit judges to our offices. This is a premise of the majority, the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party, in the vote. If the Government has not made enough of this item for wage negotiations, it must return to the revised national budget, as requested by the Right and the Advance Party, in order to obtain the necessary coverage. It is important that access to the use of custody is exploited where it is clearly unreasonable not to do so. When the elderly person is convicted and the perpetrator is known, it is contrary to the general legal opinion that the perpetrator walks straight into the open after interrogation, and in the event of gross acts of violence by a known perpetrator, it is such a burden for the victim to meet the perpetrator immediately after the attack, that both the consideration of possible repetitions and the consideration of the general legal opinion must be given greater importance to the courts. The best way to ensure that this is done is to clarify the legislative paragraphs that concern this, which have promoted private legislative proposals, which will be dealt with in the new year. My hope is that no parties initially reject this, but that we can unite on majority solutions that bring practice more in line with general legal opinion and more in terms of the victim than is the case today. The Committee is today promoting a unanimous proposal to increase the use of custody of repeaters as well as a more effective criminal proceedings in cases of known perpetrator. Here, different, faster court solutions have to be tested. Oslo Byrett and Borgarting Lawyers are central court offices for this. We are also aware that many police and their families are facing threats. That is why the Committee unanimously supports a proposal to strengthen police security, both by opening up an increased level of anonymous diplomacy and by strengthening criminal law protection for police officers. In addition, we get the method set-up for treatment, probably before Easter, and then we can get legal instruments that are adapted to the reality we live in. Prevention is also important. Preventing, among other things: to ensure that the repeats are kept away from the street and a rapid reaction between attack and judgment. But it's also prevention to take the New York model seriously, so that petty thefts, terrors and street fights are dropped early. I hope that the Minister of Justice agrees that it is not acceptable practice that shoplifting in several places does not lead to a criminal response. Now the department, along with the country's police officers, has to step up the reactions here, so that we can stop, among other things. youth at the beginning of a criminal career. It is more serious to steal at a store than to park a fault, but today's criminal reactions often suggest the opposite. That's why we have to change it. Prevention is also help to non-governmental organisations, and I'm incredibly happy that we've gathered a majority to support Youth Against Violence and the Church's Bymition. Youth Against Violence does a very important job among youth workers where other public services are often quite helpless, and their plans for their own youth station in the centre can probably now be realized. The Church’s Bymition is also very important, in particular in the post-protection of long-term convicted security prisoners, which are followed up with housing offers and other offers after termination. The million they receive is likely to secure such projects for the next year. In order to follow up the Committee's position, considerable action must be taken by the Minister of Justice. There is an urgent need for action, and there is an urgent need to re-enter the confidence of most people that we are actually familiar with what is happening, and are willing to make changes. We can no longer say that we are shocked when new things appear in the media. Because we are well informed, and we have been so at least for the year since the last budgetary procedure. Now is the time for action and to show the victims – the children who are running on the street, the elderly who are knocked up in their own homes, and the raped women who experience the judicial system as a new offense – that we want to change, that we are able to change, and that we actually get it. There is no small responsibility that now rests on the Minister of Justice. The majority of committees have given funds, we have taken decisions along the way that can provide a basis. But the exercise, it remains, and I can only say happiness to!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e204	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e207	I am pleased that a position in such an important area is marked by consensus to the extent that it is, and I am also pleased that in the fight against violence, all parties are now looking at the Stortinget value of prevention work. I want to quote from the setting, where we say: ‘The Committee would stress that a lot of prevention work is of a long-term nature and that it will not always be easy to measure the impact of such measures. These conditions must not, however, lead to the depriving of such measures. The Committee considers it important that resources be allocated to what can be called the normal arenas of children and young people, i.e. home, school, leisure. An effort here can prevent children and young people from developing in a negative direction.’ But how does that comment relate to the budgetary settlement in which the Right Party participates? After all, the budget agreement is losing children's normal arenas for resources. We see that the local government's economy is more under pressure than for a long time. That's why the Workers' Party will give more than $1 billion to the municipalities. Because what's going on when the economy is pressured there? In fact, the provision of leisure time for children and young people by municipalities is driving the cultural services of the municipalities to the same and various integration measures. The right also goes in to cut off the school leisure scheme, even though school is specifically mentioned as a place where we have to bet. And the school leisure system gives children an alternative to running the city. Right will cut support for language teaching for language minorities in school. The right is behind a system that makes it lucrative for many to take children out of kindergarten. Those who most of all need adult contact in addition to what they get at home are the ones who won't have it in kindergarten. Those who need integration most of all, are just the ones who won't. So I have to ask, how does this relate to the handles? It's said that you want to support the normal arenas of the kids and add more resources there, at the same time you bottle up the same areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e221	I think we're going to avoid taking up the entire state budget debate again, but I want to grasp a very central difference between the Labour Party and the Right. The right believes that the money left in the individual family is as hot and has the same preventive effect as the money that is first taken into tax and then handed over again to various public measures. The right-hander thinks that the most central place to drive prevention is at home. And the state budget we've adopted gives parents far better opportunities to spend time at home with their children, as well as avoiding a tax increase that would make their parents less likely to travel with. And in the case of a school leisure scheme, as was mentioned here, it's true that it's getting a little bit more expensive with the budget compromise, but that price increase is far less than what the same families have saved to avoid tax increases. So in fact, the parents here have both the means to pay the hundreds extra in leisure arrangements and to be able to do other important things for their children. Of course, when it comes to prevention, it's not just what's going on in the home and in the families. It is also prevention for crime – as I said in my speech – to apprehend repeaters, and it is prevention to be able to respond early to young people on their way out. I therefore have no bad conscience for the prevention profile of the Right in the Right Alternative Budget. But I would like to remind you that the Labour Party in its alternative budget had a cut in the justice sector of NOK 17 million, while the rest of us had an increase. So with the arrangements of the Labour Party, there would be little good for prevention in the justice sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e228	If I heard correctly, the representative Krohn Devold said in his speech that there was a proposal from the Justice Committee on anonymous witnesses. If it's the same proposal that I've read, and I'll assume it's, it says that you can give a testimonial 'without having to give your full identity'. And I allow myself to ask if this is the same thing as anonymous witnesses. The second thing I could want to challenge the head of the Justice Committee is that I realized that the whole story she was making was about crime policy and criminal justice. I would like to ask her to say something about what other challenges she believes the Ministry of Justice is facing in its field of affairs, than the special area.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e235	I wasn't going to find the exact place in my post where I treated it with increased security for policemen, but I think I used words towards increasing anonymity. I do not think there is any disagreement between Mr Hove and the Committee on Legal Affairs. What we're in favour of is that police officers should be able to pass testimonies to the court without having to give their full identity. How much and how little they have to state, we get back to when the final text of the law is to be fined, but the purpose is to remedy a very serious situation that we have today, where police people feel that they are too easy to identify, and that it leads to threats and reprisals, not just against them, but against their children, and it is too serious that we can let it continue. Then Hove asked what challenges I see in the Ministry of Justice's budget area. Obviously, there are a lot of records. I can mention the Data Protection Authority, which I think we are concerned with both, and which will probably affect my other colleague from the Right later on. It is clear that legal certainty and security about how information about your person is processed are important. I am pleased that the representative asked that, because in a situation where we are forced to tighten up our legislation on police methods and we have to open up video surveillance in certain cases, it is very important that we have a strong Data Protection system that can be a counter-post argumentative and can make us get the right balances. Therefore, the Right also had in its primary arrangement an increase in funding to the Data Protection Authority, for which unfortunately we did not receive the support of the Centre Parties, and which was therefore not adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e244	The representative of Krohn Devold said in his previous reply to me that she would not go into the rest of the state budget and have a debate on it. I get that very well, because that's exactly where very much of the prevention against crime lies, and there doesn't have much right to have a good conscience for. So that she won't go into it, doesn't surprise me. So the representative of Krohn Devold believes that by slowing down kindergarten expansion and paying people for not using kindergartens, they get more time at home to run prevention. But now preliminary figures from Akershus show that the parents become very little more at home, but they find other stores and passports for the kids than the pedagogical offer in kindergartens. Besides, some kids need to be integrated. It is also about the Nordics who come from a weak home, who need an adult contact in addition to what they can get at home, who need to be present in a kindergarten, who need a school vacation scheme so that they can get in touch with the adult world, get in touch with professionals who can catch up with young people at an early age before they get into service, before they get close to crime. We also need their integration with a foreign cultural background. They just need to get an offer to be in a kindergarten to be integrated into the Norwegian community, to get their contacts, to get their social network, and they need a school leisure system to get the same thing. When the offer is restricted because there is simply not enough space, because you don't want to use common crowns to expand it, and when the offer becomes inaccessible because it's too expensive, it just means that those who need it most in order not to fall outside of our society are the ones who are being excluded from that world.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e253	Although this is a debate on justice, I am pleased that the representative Tömerås gives me the opportunity to talk about some of the things I burn most for, namely the fact that what is best for the individual child, the parents know best. I am strongly provoked when it is made so that those who choose child care solutions for their children other than a kindergarten take a kind of responsibility that their children can develop in a criminal race course, because it does not have the same preventive effect as choosing other childcare solutions. I have two children, and I've chosen completely different babysitting solutions for both of my children, because they're different individuals with different needs. I have to say that one of them needed to be in a small environment, where two-three children were actually enough to be with. Then a day - mother solution for a young child can be as good as a kindergarten, according to the safety needs of the individual young child. And that it should be the same as leading my children out on a criminal track, I have to respectfully say that it's just bullshit. But what is important in the representative's line is, of course, for children with special needs, what is involved in the integration of both foreign-language and by others. I believe it is a clear duty for municipalities to provide special support or lower payment for children with special needs, and in particular foreign-languagers may need to have a kindergarten. That it can also include a school leisure facility, I see quite clearly. And that's access to today, because we want everyone to be able to keep still when they start school, both in terms of professional knowledge, language, etc., and that can happen within the system. But we do not therefore need to have arrangements for the entire Norwegian nursery.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e260	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e264	The fight for a safer society and against crime is a common goal for all parties here in the Chamber. The attitude of the Justice Committee shows that there is broad agreement on the content of our criminal policy in terms of action in the justice sector. I believe it is an important signal, and I would like to stress this fact before the debate on numbers and individual matters is focused. Maybe someone here or outside this hall has an interest in the latter being dominating, but I actually believe that politicians have a responsibility to find solutions that can bring together broad ups and downs. In this way, I believe that the Justice Committee has done a good job in the present position. In the fight against crime, causes and instruments are complex and complex and require politicians to move under headings and symbolism policies. There are no simple solutions. Good crime policy requires a focus on the responsibility of individuals for their own actions as well as on the conditions in society that affect the development of crime. We must tackle criminal acts, but also counteract and prevent illegal acts. The fight against crime can therefore not be conducted alone within the framework of the justice sector. The strategy of the Labour Party is therefore a comprehensive policy where work for all, social protection and small differences between people are important. A society of justice and security prevents and dampens social and ethnic contradictions, crime and violence. Strengthening the growth environment of children and young people is central to preventing a criminal career. We need here a reinforced effort for children and young people in the risk zone in interactions between home, school, volunteers, child protection, police and other public agencies. Limits shall be set and responded to unacceptable behaviour. But the penal code can never be the only answer. In all these areas resources are needed. The Labour Party is for the police to secure funds for their work. But when this is going to be covered in by cutting by over 100 million. I believe that the whole policy in the fight against crime is lost in the budgetary agreement between the central parties, the Right and the Progressive Party. There is a close link between the practice of violence and the use of drugs. The majority of the violence in the capital takes place from Friday to Sunday. Therefore, the fight against violence cannot be distinguished from the work against drug abuse and, no less important, the offer for drug users. We have to tackle the problems before society has to react to a criminal act. The Labour Party believes that a comprehensive policy must also be taken into account in the justice sector. In the field of security and legal certainty, police, courts and criminal justice are a chain where all stages require follow-up. The individual's need for safety, law and order must be met. The police have a very important task here and have therefore received significant increases in appropriations in recent years. In the context of the increased framework for the justice sector, the Labour Party attaches importance to strengthening police prevention. Police must be visible and accessible in the vicinity. In the context of reorganisations, this must be carefully assessed against the objective of a decentralised police force, and operational units must not be reduced in such a way that the availability of people is most impaired. The Labour Party sees the need for a comprehensive review of police duties and resources in order to achieve a better distribution of police districts. Oslo police districts have special challenges in terms of crime development, such as: violent crime and organised crime, and we believe that the Oslo Police must be given increased funding. We also support the staffing of Follo and Rome’s police districts. With the special challenges of the capital and the national tasks of the district, we believe it is right that the department considers separating Oslo police districts as its own budget line. However, future competition between police districts and the prevention of flexibility in resource use must not mean meeting changes in the development of crime. We register that other cities and urban areas meet the same challenges, and we believe that cooperation within and between police districts needs to be exploited. In the field of economic opportunities, the Ministry needs to facilitate the use of pre-educated high school police students in active service. I refer here to the necessary work being carried out on the further development and efficiency of the Police and National Staff Act, and stress the objective of releasing resources to strengthen the outlying and direct crime-fighting activities. Policemen today have a tougher everyday experience in the work against, for example: organised crime and violent crime. We are committed to providing the necessary security in the performance of the service. The Committee has pointed to some aspects, but it is not exhaustive. Organised crime has also had its foothold here in Norway. Police need to be ensured methods to detect and counter these backers for serious crime and as a source of much other criminal activity. We repeat the information in the Government Corridors of the Methodology Committee's setting. In many contexts, there are international branches. International police and customs cooperation is necessary. The Labour Party is therefore pleased that the Government of Bondevik is preparing Norwegian police participation in the Schengen cooperation and is continuing with the aim of joining the operational activities in 2000. To ensure the individual’s right to security, the fight against violence is crucial. The new trends in juvenile delinquency and cases of gross violence are upsetting us. I am convinced that we can manage to reverse this if we make a concerted effort, which the Government's plan of action against violence in public places is also at issue. But here the scope of the measures I mentioned initially, both prevention and responses, is needed. The violence in the street is clearly visible and the attention around this large. At the same time, it is a fact that most cases of violence and assault take place at home. This is hidden and often not reported, and many cases are blamed or do not lead to convictions. This should occupy us. However, security is more than freedom from abuse, it is also freedom from fear. We also need to expand our aid and support for those who have become victims of crime. I agree with the Norwegian Fengsels and Free Care Associations that we now need a more comprehensive and systematic review to strengthen the position of victims of violence. It is also a call to the Minister of Justice. Police shall provide rapid investigation and clarification. However, if we are to succeed in a rapid response to criminal execution, we are dependent on the next stage of the justice chain, the courts. We want to strengthen the courts in order to reduce the length of proceedings and thus get a faster judgment. We are familiar with the recruitment problems in the courts, assuming that the ministry follows up with various measures to improve the situation. The treatment of the Crime Prevention Communication in the Stortingen this autumn represented the preliminary final stone of long-term work on an overall review of criminal enforcement, rehabilitation and post-criminal protection. A key challenge is to structure and target settlement content that can better facilitate a crime-free life, based on the prisoner’s own responsibility. It requires more use of individual resolution and oversight plans, impact programmes and better manning, as does investment in building stock. There was a broad political consensus on the main lines of the Criminal Service Communication, and that it would require increased resources to follow up on the ambitions. In order to ensure the integrity of the justice sector, we have chosen to use part of the increased framework for action in criminal justice. The current reports on closed departments, the absence of job vacancies and the assessment of the need for activities underline the need. Criminal care is important primarily for people’s needs for security, law and order, but also for lawbreakers. Prisoners are going back to society at some point, and today new crime is the likely outcome for most people. I am disappointed that the budgetary agreement between the centre parties, the Right and the Advance Party, which gave increased frameworks for the justice sector, only provided for a unilateral commitment to the police. This disappointment in spite, I will return to the starting point for my post. Work to ensure people's security and legal certainty is at the heart of our welfare society. Yeah, that's part of the foundation of the welfare community. The position of the Judicial Committee shows that there is broad agreement on the main lines of the fight against crime in the field of justice. Policies often consist of pure-breding contradictions, and, of course, there are differences of opinion. But I would like to stress here the attitudes and solutions that bring together broad ups and forwards. I think it helps to create security in an important area for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e313	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e316	The representative Vidar Bjørnstad also gave a clear indication of the problems that violence in society represents. And then he also referred to prevention measures like what's going to help save the situation. I sat and listened to the post, and it struck me that with the completely dominant position of the Labour Party in the post-war Norwegian policy, the post-war posts of the representative, Vidar Bjørnstad, are a unique settlement with a failed policy in terms of prevention. For the record, I don't agree with the central government in everything, but it turns out that if it's taken a little heavily in the ears, it's moving in a reasonable direction. But it would be totally unreasonable to say that after one year it is to blame for the failure of the preventive work that, according to the Workers' Party's own reasoning, has led to the crime we have today. Could it be impossible to cut back on the school leisure system, adopted for the 1999 budget, which is the cause of violence and misery and people's feelings of insecurity in today's situation? I would like to make this clear: does the representative, Vidar Bjørnstad, realise and accept that this is the result of a policy which is largely labour party-dominated in the field of crime, which is the cause of the misery that we must try to deal with today? And as Vidar Bjørnstad correctly says, we're going to fight back the violence created by a failure of politics. It is the alternative budgets that often express the priorities of the parties. The fact that the Workers' Party has taken part in the distribution of the extra millions that we have created in the justice sector is good and good, but in the Workers' Party's own priorities, they agreed on a cut of 17 million. kr. What are the views of the Labour Party on crime prevention measures on such a priority?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e330	With regard to the solutions to be put forward in the Committee on Justice today, and the position put forward by the Committee on Legal Affairs, it has been proposed on the basis of the reality we are experiencing today. And it's no wonder that we've had a crime development like, among other things. have given e.g. serious use of violence. I think it's important to bear in mind that focusing on one type of crime might give a different impression than the whole of the evolution of crime. I think it's important to bring with it the actual background. The Oslo Police Chamber stresses that they have had several cases of gross violence, but at the same time the total number of violence, assaults and street violence has fallen. So I don't want to say that we have any state of emergency per. today. My point is this: if we're going to be able to solve this, we need an effort from all parts of society. I underlined in my post that it means that one should cooperate with the homes. I pointed especially at children and young people in the risk zone, in the sense that it must be targeted. I said it was important that a puller bring child protection and school. We underline in the Committee's position, for example: the use of school mediation. A further step is the question of conflict advice. I think the most important thing for us to stress is that we need to solve some of the challenges we see in the development of crime, that means that we need more on the ground. And there I just have to record that in the budget agreement it's just talking about the efforts of the police. With regard to the extra allocations, the situation is such that the framework for the justice sector has increased due to the new budgetary system, and it also obliges us to participate in a distribution. And we've laid the foundation of the whole justice sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e339	I'm trying as hard as I can to understand the logic of the Workers' Party when talking about frameworks for the justice sector. It is said that solutions need to be found that can be wide-ranging, and that is quite right, but in this context there is no concern about the framework given to those bodies that are actually going to fight and punish criminal acts. These are other areas that first need priority in order to combat crime, such as the school leisure system. At the same time, the Workers' Party in other contexts claims that other parties are responsible for light solutions. I would say that the Workers' Party does not care about the conditions under which our legal system lives. It is not useful to combat crime by promoting resolution opinions alone. It must be disappointing for those who have been subjected to criminal acts to experience that the largest party in the country has such defensive attitudes to obtain the necessary and sufficient appropriations for the justice sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e346	That Jørn Stang and the Advance Party should understand the logic of my reasoning, is perhaps too much required. In fact, the party of progress is outside the main line in the sense that they have their own specific comment, and what is distinctive about that particular comment is the emphasis that crime can only be met with more police and more stringent penalties. However, there is no experience that suggests that one will achieve a lower rate of crime by investing only in those areas. I stressed that if someone, for example, to have more police, higher clearance rates and more prosecutions, one must also strengthen the other parts of the justice sector: the courts, which have large assets, and the criminal justice system. As I said, I think it's a little disappointing that one in an agreement where in fact all the parties put emphasis on the whole of the justice sector, has not found room to be able to add anything to the criminal justice system, which just points out that here has one thing to do with a group that one might contribute to getting into a crime-free life, a group that today basically returns to a criminal act – and back again to the prison system. I believe, as I said, that the Progress Party stands out by not placing emphasis on the breadth of action against crime. We have said in majority comments that we also want to look at the fight against crime in relation to other policy areas, but I stressed that there may be parties who want individual cases to be dominant and who want the efforts made in relation to stricter penalties and police to appear as the only way to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e355	No one else has asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e358	The attitude of the Justice Committee contains many fine words about combating crime. At the same time, the parties' proposals in the financial position, which were discussed on Monday, and the Government's draft budget, which was presented in October, show that there is no willingness to follow up those fine words through practical action. The government’s draft budget for the justice sector, supported by the Workers’ Party in their alternative budget, actually meant a reduction both for the police and for the prison system. Then these parties' pretty words about the need for better efforts to stop street violence and fight crime become more or less meaningless. As far as the police were concerned, the Progress Party was standing alone to follow the wishes of the Police Joint Union. Even the Right added 110 million. kr below what the police organisations thought was absolutely necessary, probably because the Right did not see the need for new service cars. Over several years, the Progress Party has proposed increased appropriations for both police, courts and prison services, but has been downgraded. Today, we see the result in the form of the wave of violence. In Oslo, the street gangs, 84 of them. by members of foreign origin. This development has been warned by the Progress Party. For years we have pointed out that the outcome of a liberal immigration policy and a poor integration policy would just be what we now see, but then the Progress Party was stamped as both xenophobic and almost racist. And the Vice-Chairman, Inge Wohnning, even suggested in an election debate with Carl I. Hagen that the Progress Party had views that were closest to those Nazis had in the 1930s. Now – a year and a half later – it should be time for an unreserved apology for these grotesque personal insults to the members of the Progress Party, including those who are signed. Right should have a spine enough to now realize that such statements were unreasonable. Instead of making personal attacks on all the members of the Progress Party, and not least on those who have never had racist or xenophobic positions, no pay should have listened to our factual arguments, and the Right should have supported our proposals for automatic expulsion of foreign criminals. Perhaps today Oslo would be a safer city for both old and new countrymen. In recent years, a whole series of proposals for a tighter criminal policy have been rejected by all the other parties, most recently in the context of the Criminal Service Notice, where the Right and the other parties voted down nine proposals from the Progress Party, including a proposal that would prevent criminals from leaving prison after merely having sonised parts of their judges. Even a moderate proposal to recommend to the Supreme Court to impose stricter penalties on violent offenders and sexual offenders, all other parties voted against. A new criminal policy is needed in Norway – a policy of action that treats criminals as criminals, so that honest people can move freely in our streets without fear. There is a need for radicalisation. Today's liberal policy towards the criminals must be thrown at the scrappowder. It has led to nothing but unnecessary human suffering. There is a need for a strong upgrading of the police, the courts and the prison system. It has to be concluded that persons who commit serious acts of warfare or burglaries are free of conditional judges and social services. Prison time should be doubled. The parole system must be removed. Quick courts must be established and the settlement must start immediately after a final judgment has been given. The result of today’s stupid ‘collapse on the shoulder’ policy neither helps the criminal nor the victims. The discouraging result of the fact that the task of combating crime is neglected by the majority of the population, we unfortunately see today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e373	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e376	In the Committee’s position, the Progress Party has many important, unanimous opinions on the whole of criminal policy, such as the need to focus attention on responsibility for own actions, the need to focus on conditions in society that affect the development of crime, the need to strengthen the growth environment in order to prevent a criminal race, and the importance of the interaction between family, school and other public services in this context. It is when it comes to action and budgetary procedure that there will be an impact on the whole of the Progress Party. This was also made clear during the speech by the representative Simonsen. There is a great deal of consensus that the police need to be strengthened, and that special measures must also be taken to address the violent incidents and developments we have had in Oslo, especially in recent times. But as the political situation was when a entered into the budgetary agreement, I think it was possible for the Progress Party to achieve much. Why was it not then important for the Progress Party, in addition to strengthening the police, to strengthen prevention, including integration measures for people with a foreign cultural background? And wasn't it also important to strengthen the whole chain of criminal law? Then it is not useful to point out what the Progress Party proposed in its original arrangement in relation to, for example, Court of Justice and Criminal Court. Obviously, these areas were not a priority in the negotiations themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e389	I agree that the Progress Party in the Committee's vote has been involved in important, unanimous comments, and so does the Labour Party. The problem has only been that for the Workers' Party, the empty words are not followed up in action by proposing to grant money. A unanimous committee has said that it is important to improve the growing-up environment of children. In any case, the best growing-up environment believes that I can get a child through better time with their parents, and the Progress Party has also agreed to grant money to the cash support scheme, which the Workers' Party has voted against. In the alternative budget of the Progress Party, the Progress Party proposed 290 million. Extra for the police – 280 million. DKK to the police and 10 million. $43 million for the Police College. Extra to the courts and 40 million. In addition to the prison system, the Labour Party proposed 0 to the police, 0 to the courts and 0 to the prison system. So there is a context in the policy of the Progress Party – we want to strengthen the whole chain of criminal law. In the proposal of the three government parties to the State budget, which was discussed on Monday, there was an increase in the justice sector of relatively de minimis 100 million. kr – significantly less than the Advance Party requested. Such a negligible amount is impossible to spread across several sectors in order to have any effect on that amount. 60 million. extra to the police, as the Workers' Party is now proposing within these limits, is only sufficient to cover the reduction in operational resources compared to last year.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e396	The representative Simonsen put very much emphasis on the fact that the Progress Party was the only party willing to do anything. That is possible, but politics requires something more than will – it also requires ability. And sometimes the ability is more important than the will. It is no secret that in the negotiations that have taken place on next year's state budget, it is the Right who has been pressured by the marked increase in the appropriations in the police and justice sectors, while the interest of the Progress Party in this matter during the negotiations was relatively moderate. To the representative Simonsen's long investigation into my alleged attacks on the members of the Progress Party and individual politicians, I must say that it is simply a misleading drawing. I have not characterized either the members of the Advance Party or named individuals in terms of their attitudes towards people with a different skin color. I have no interest whatsoever in discussing that question either, for I consider that to be irrelevant. On the other hand, I have pointed out that the Progress Party and the leader of the Party have a bad habit of using this in political terms and playing on the foreign fear that exists in Norway, like in all other countries, and exploiting it for political purposes. In this context, I consider it a much bigger problem than racism, because I think it is a microscopic part of the problem in Norway, that there is a political party that is so opportunistic in its use and exploits and plays on prejudices and xenophobia in order to reap political gain from it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e405	I find it strange when a right-wing representative tries to present it so that the compromise on a government budget and an agreement between the three government parties, the Right and the Advance Party, are primarily due to the Right's efforts. Who said what at an enclosed meeting in some room here in this big building, it is difficult for us who were not present at the meeting, to have any opinion about. What is the case is that the Progress Party in its alternative budget had significantly greater increases to, for example, the police than the Right had, and thus the Progress Party was more than right to move the police budget in the right direction. When it comes to attitudes towards immigration and xenophobia, I read the newspapers after the election campaign. There is no doubt about what Inge Wage said to the media and at open meetings in the election campaign. So when it's like 84 pst. Of the young people who are in the streets of Oslo, walking around with knives and guns, are of foreign origin, we should be able to admit that this is a problem that is also linked to integration policy. If you don't dare point to the problem of fear of being labeled xenophobic, you can never solve the problem either. It's nothing more than what the Progress Party has done. We have to put the search light on something that is a problem, and then we actually also have to propose a solution to this problem. Then I think we're not going to hear statements that we have xenophobic views that are comparable to attitudes in Germany in the 1930s.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e414	When I hear posts from Jan Simonsen, I record that he must have some special pleasure in attacking the Right and making the Right his main opponent. It's got to be. I'm going to leave that to the Right to repeat it. Furthermore, I also record that the representative Simonsen spends a lot of time going into the previously voted-down proposals that the Progress Party has promoted. I will then be allowed to state a little in general that I am pleased that the policy of the Progress Party in this area does not have a greater impact than it has. The Ministry of Justice has increased its budget for a limited period of time. Now it is clear that it is difficult to get the Progress Party to deal with the need for tightening up, as the party far on the way indicated that it was limited. But what's a problem is that it's natural to deal with Simonsen's representative when it comes to demands from the police, is whether the police are going to have a suction tube into the state box. For as I perceive the representative Simonsen, it seems that he believes that any claim that comes from the police and from the police organizations should be met. Would it really be a good criminal policy in the budgetary situation we've had, spending 130 million. Do more to police cars, as incorporated in the proposal highlighted by the representative Simonsen here? One last question: The representative's salary was that it's not on purpose enough, it's also important with ability. It is also important to have a well-qualified police force. The high school of police obviously provides a good education, so in general we get a well-qualified police officer. But some of the challenges facing the police are the relationship with people with a cultural background. Would it not then be a good idea to bet on getting into the police people with the same background, who might have a better understanding of some of the issues that exist, as the Progress Party, as far as I understand, has gone against?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e425	As far as the first question is concerned, on the Joint Police Association, it is my opinion that the police union knows better than we do on the Stortinget where the shoe prints, and that we should therefore listen to this expertise when it comes to how to prioritise money in the police sector. If you think that there is a need for new service cars instead of new PCs, there is something that police organisations know better to assess than we do at Stortinget, and then we'll have to follow it up. When it comes to recruiting the police, I am very much in agreement with the representative of Hove. I even persuaded one of my best friends, a youth of foreign origin, to apply at the Police College, and he came in. The admission to the Police College is discretionary. A person’s general fitness is assessed before picking out the relatively few applicants who are admitted to school. Of course, in this assessment of fitness, the background of the person, as well as language skills and knowledge of different types of environments, should be included. When so much of the crime in Norway is committed by people of foreign origin, it is of course an advantage that people with knowledge of these criminal environments are brought up at the Police College, and I do not consider it to be a special quota scheme. I would be negative to any kind of quotaing of persons of foreign origin, because everyone has a right to be assessed according to their qualities and personal qualifications. But that a person's background, e.g. Multilingualism and knowledge about some environments, counting positively, I think is right.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e432	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e435	The Christian People's Party is very pleased that democracy and cooperation work, which led to a budgetary agreement with the Right and the Advance Party. We have also discussed solutions in the justice sector that we can stand for. One of the results is that cap. 400 Ministry of Justice has not been reduced, even though several parties initially wanted it. The main means of operating the ministry is the cost of wages and salaries, and the direct administration and follow-up of the courts and tribunals involve important and comprehensive tasks, not least through the initiation and follow-up of development and efficiency measures. A reduction in this chapter would have resulted in a longer period of time for administrative tasks and limited capacity to carry out investigations and legal proceedings and follow-up of necessary development measures across the justice sector. In addition, it would have weakened the department's ability to carry out the necessary conversion in order to achieve the objectives set by both the Government and the Stortinget before the courts and the courts. That is why the Christian People's Party is pleased that a joint committee has seen the importance that the Ministry of Justice is also given the opportunity to do the best possible job. An overall committee has gone in to increase the chapter on the rights of the team by 6 million. NOK 14 million in the royalties and city councils. kr, and it is known that the need is greater. But this is a step in the right direction and an important addition in order to achieve a better balance in the criminal justice chain. The police have over time been top-ranking, while the consequences of further work in the criminal chain have not had the same attention. The police will also be at the top of this budgetary procedure with an increase of 100 million. kr in the budget following the agreement with the Right and the Advance Party. The increased appropriations allocated to the police and county council in recent years oblige the department itself to focus on how resources are distributed and used. The priority areas for the policing and policing services are in the middle of prevention and crime control. In the chapter on criminal justice in the institution, there was a proposal for the closure of Vik and Kongsberg relief prisons. The Christian People's Party believes from an overall assessment that Vik aid prison should be maintained, and we could support the proposal to shut down the activities of auxiliary prisons in Kongsberg, assuming that competences and resources were transferred primarily to Ringerijk County Prison. The Christian People's Party could not initially see that there was a need for further explanation as to the consequences of shutting down Kongsberg relief prison before taking a position on the proposal. But there we got into a solid minority, which we accepted and found then also no reason to highlight the views with a particular note. The Committee has asked for an explanation of the consequences of the closure of both Vik and Kongsberg auxiliary prisons, so that the matter comes to the Committee again, possibly under the revised national budget. In reallocation of funds within Framework Area 5, significant cuts were made in three areas: the Registering Unit of Brønnøysund, the Central Collection Centre of the State and the Civil Protection Officer. It's our job to prioritize and redistribute on the basis of an overall assessment. That's why these were 22 million. kr relocated to the Law of Lawyers and the Magisterial Court, as mentioned earlier, to the City Mission of the Church, earmarked important post-protection works as they have started, to Youth Against Violence and to an information office and a night open youth station in the centre, plus a redistribution within the same chapter of 1 million. kr to increase the grant for legal aid activities directed by students. In the resolution, an overall committee has written comments on action to combat drugs in prison. For this reason, I would just like to stress the importance that relatives as a resource are important to take care of and maintain during their detention, as part of the network that should be in place on the day they leave prison. And how can we give prison accommodation a content that will make the need to rush less? How do we give information to a group of people there maybe 35-75 pst. have difficulty reading and writing, and where they give feedback that they need a glossary, an explanation of the content of terms, to understand what politicians and departments actually write? It's also a relationship we have to have in our responsibility for information. There is a joint committee behind the comments on violence. That's why I just want to make it clear that we need to be better at capturing all the signals that lie ahead, before they become criminals, and putting in appropriate measures. There are no quick, simple solutions, but we all have a common responsibility, and there must be cooperation to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e452	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e455	Not in one word in the post, after which I could right, the representative mentioned important things that happen, among other things. in the criminal sector, namely the agreements we are negotiating with EU countries, which are called Schengen and Schengen cooperation. So I have a small question to the representative with a background in what's in the government's staging proposition: ‘International police cooperation shall ensure cross-border joint action and contribute to the more effective fight against international and organised crime. The Ministry of Justice attaches particular importance to the work of Interpol, the European cooperation within Schengen and police and customs cooperation between the Nordic countries.» When, through binding cooperation with EU countries, we can ensure cooperation on cross-border control of criminals and maintain passport freedom in the Nordic region, it is striking that the representatives of the Christian People's Party together with the Central Party only refer to the three central parties their political basis for the central government and stress that Norway is opposed to Schengen. I then feel that the representatives, at least from the Christian People's Party, should feel a little bad about the Minister of Justice, who, with the remark I have read, suggests that we have a Schengen agreement and that we have an organized agreement with the EU countries on this important work. Do they not feel a bit disloyal to their own Council of State when they cannot share in the joint comment on the importance of reducing organised crime across borders?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e465	The Christian People's Party fully agrees that there is a need for extensive cooperation with other countries to combat cross-border crime, and believes that international police cooperation should take place flexibly through bilateral cooperation with other countries, which has been developed in particular with the other Nordic countries. We also believe that Interpol's importance as the most central coordinating element in international police cooperation is important, and for Norway, the most important and most effective bi- and multilateral police cooperation in which Norway participates. I would also like to stress that Interpol's definition of Europe includes 45 states, while Schengen will not even be such an inclusive body in the foreseeable future. In addition, Interpol operates worldwide international cooperation, with a total of 176 countries currently connected. With regard to the question of whether we cannot support the observation of the majority that the Government of Bondevik's work on preparing Norwegian police participation in Schengen cooperation is continuing, with the aim of joining the operational activities in 2000, I can well say so in that way that we take note of it and look positively at it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e474	I would like to commend the Christian People's Party for participating in constructive cooperation on the budget, so that we could achieve a maximum required improvement in the budget that we are discussing today. It is on the basis that we now have a long way to go, and it is perhaps almost untimely of me that I have allowed myself to bring with me a document, the so-called Waxenås declaration. What it contains is, of course, almost entirely added to the maximum impractical policy — fortunately. But it is actually sporadic elements of this declaration that are quite good. I've read it carefully and found a passage. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘A central government will support a strengthening of the Data Protection Authority, both in terms of resources and a more independent position vis-à-vis the Ministry of Justice.’ A few months ago, when we had what I would call a hard political struggle over the independence of the Data Protection Authority, it was the Ministry of Justice, under the leadership of the Christian People's Party, who was on the wrong side of the Data Protection Authority's independence. I would like an explanation of how it fits with the beautiful words of the Adult Declaration. Unfortunately, this continues, because in the context of budgetary negotiations we did not get ahead in the area that went beyond the beautiful words, namely money. Right-wing proposals to strengthen data protection, not just in words, but by means, so that it could do a good job and defend its independence, defend privacy, among other things, it was impossible to get the government parties involved. Once again a relatively simple question: how does the policy of the parties and the Christian People's Party correspond to the Waxenås declaration in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e489	The adultås declaration is so far from being sidelined. But we were going to have four years to implement it, and not just one and a half years, which we have now been through. So there I'm not worried, because we've done a lot already. More comes later. As far as data protection is concerned, we wanted a broader assessment. The solutions we got seem to be good. As far as money is concerned, we have to conduct a responsible economic policy, and it has been put into a tight budget. It will characterise all areas, including the funding of the Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e498	When I had a reply earlier today to the Progress Party and Jan Simonsen, he gave me no answer as to why one in the negotiations on the budget agreement had not made the total in the area of crime and crime prevention. As I said, I did not get an answer to what I asked for. I will therefore go further with the Christian People's Party. The representative, Wisløff Nilssen, stressed the importance of prevention and the whole of the criminal justice chain. We know that, based on her commitment to the committee, that she is concerned, among other things. in the case of people with difficulty in writing and reading. Then I have to ask the representative Wisløff Nilssen: can she and the Christian People's Party be comfortable with the profile the conciliation got in this field? Anyway, I got a hundred million. kr more at your disposal, which the Christian People's Party has also been involved in entering one sector of a total criminal justice chain where prevention is also a very, very important element.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e505	I hear that the Labour Party believes that the budgetary agreement does not have the overall strength for which the Christian People's Party stands, and for which I also speak. But at the same time, I would say that there was a sudden and great commitment to the whole of the Workers' Party to the Committee on Budgetary Control. I'd rather angle it that way that we now in the committee in many areas have taken a step in the right direction. I believe that good cooperation and discussing different themes in the future will improve the overall profile of the budget by next year. What was important was to get a government budget and someone who was willing to join in and secure it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e512	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e515	First, I would like to say that I am very pleased with the great degree of consensus that characterizes the setting. The debate here today also bears the mark of it, even though we see tendencies to do a number that some parties have a few more dollars to route with than others. Of course, a good or poor criminal policy is not determined by the fact that the police and the sensitivities are granted 50 million. kr extra, or for that matter 150 million. kr. A comprehensive criminal policy presupposes a focus on the responsibility of individual offenders for their actions and for social conditions that particularly affect the extent of crime. It is therefore not enough simply to take action against the individual offenders in the fight against crime. It is also necessary to look at the importance of social conditions, so that action can also be taken in such areas. Relationships such as housing and dissolved social networks may, for example: explain a part of the crime. It is necessary to consider more cooperative social conditions in the design of crime-fighting measures. In other words, an interaction between prevention and the criminal law principle is necessary that each individual is responsible for his or her actions. Crime consists of a series of individual acts committed by persons who might have acted differently if their overall situation had been more favourable. Knowledge of matters that may have an impact on the nature and extent of crime is important because it gives increased insight into why each individual commits crimes rather than being law-abiding. It cannot, however, be reconciled with the fact that at the end of the seventh and last elections are concerned, and therefore also with freedom and responsibility. Crime has an impact on people’s well-being in two ways – directly by reducing the well-being of those who are subjected to violence or theft, and indirectly, crime also affects other and larger groups of the population in terms of insecurity and anxiety, i.e. loss of quality of life. I allow myself to draw attention to the strong wording of the position that goes on the importance of maintaining the decentralised structure within the police and the county council. A joint committee says, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the ‘In the opinion of the Committee, operational positions and local community offices will provide the best starting point for the police to become part of the local network through cross-cutting measures to prevent and combat crime.’ The closure of local labour offices is a matter that has been discussed in Stortinget on several occasions. Since the start of the reorganisation, 34 changes have been made at the level of the holding to date. These are largely agreed upon, and a few similar changes are to be considered. The organisation of local holdings must be based on the needs of the population for environmental safety. The cost savings in the closure of canning offices are minimal, but have a significant impact on the public’s sense of security, as confirmed by the very large local commitment triggered when some police officers propose the closure of canning offices. To try to replace this with a branch office that is open for a few hours per. a number of sites have been tried over recent years. Everyone's gone after a short time, and the local police are gone. In addition, it is well-known that the local community and its presence in the local communities are a very important hub for the networking necessary to prevent and combat crime. I am aware that in a very short time, there will be a meeting of the Reference Group for Phase 2 of the reorganisation of the Police and Lone Civil Service seat, where there are proposals for merging holdings in different municipalities. In the light of the clear and unambiguous signals given by a unanimous judiciary, I think it would be right for the political leadership of the ministry to stop proposals to shut down labour offices that help to deprive the population of the service and security that people have elsewhere in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e544	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e547	Nor in the post of the representative Tor Nymo did I hear about international cooperation and the Schengen Agreement, even if we know that the whole of the Central Party has its basic plan of telephone meetings with the cabling on the very important issue. It might have been natural for one to have also sacrificed a little bit of time on this in the debate on justice, given the fact that it's about passport freedom in the Nordic region, and it says about organized crime, which we don't see following any limit. In connection with the treatment of the judicial budget last year, I also had a reply to Tor Nymo about the same question, where he answered: ‘With regard to passport freedom, we feel reasonably confident that it would also be preserved without necessarily having to adhere to the Schengen Agreement.’ Now we have been proved that we do not have a passport freedom without entering into the Schengen cooperation. Today, in the newspaper today, we read that the negotiated agreement is so good that the government of Bondevik will recommend it to the Stortinget, and then the Center Party is running on with its internal medicine to try to get advice so that the government has to go out and say no. Then I would like to ask, how will the Centre keep up the freedom of passports? How will the Central Party tackle international crime when we have no binding agreement with other countries in such an important area, and perhaps organised crime will be given a foothold in our country because we are not willing to cooperate with others?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e559	I will be very careful to claim that the representative who now had the floor has a hard time doing it, but I think it's a little strange when she asked me an almost identical question last year, which she said, and also had a rather identical question to the representative of the Christian People's Party, where I think she got some clear feedback about the situation. What she ended up with is that the Central Party was against international police cooperation to prevent crime is a positive mistake, not to say wrong. The representative of Nistad knows very well that the international police cooperation in which Norway participates, in so far also bilaterally, and not least through Interpol, we have stated in the past that we seem to provide the best basis for combating international crime. It is related to the large organisation and includes a significantly larger geographical area, several countries. I believe that continued efforts at Interpol, in which Norway has decided to participate, will ensure us, secure our borders, and give the police the best opportunity to combat international crime. So to the question of Schengen. We in the Central Party have said that we want to take the Schengen Agreement seriously, but to advance my position on the agreement at that time probably also the representative Nistad is quite difficult, not to say unreasonable to demand.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e568	The question of read and write difficulties has recently been drawn into the bulk work. That the representative Nymo now also seems to want to introduce who is heavy on it and who is less heavy on it, on a more general basis, I do not feel convinced that in and on itself is very constructively contributing to the debate. Let me first say that initially in the post of Tor Nymo, there was an almost unique underestimation of the importance of the appropriations for police work, and I understand better the priority that the Central Party, as one of the government parties, did by putting on under zero growth for the police, and where they first through the negotiations, among other things. with the right allowed to move in the right direction. It was their original proposal that indicated the priority of the Central Party's police and criminal policy. It's okay to see that. I would also like to comment on Schengen. The position on which this debate is based states that ‘these members are, however, familiar with the preferences of the majority of the population in this case’, and they declare that they are opposed to Norway’s relationship with the Schengen cooperation. For the sake of order: there is agreement between the central party and the government parties in the setting, and what is stated in the Adult Declaration, but it does not belong to that part of the declaration that I think is particularly good. But the question is, what happens now in the future? Is it the case, with this clear emphasis, that the representatives of the Central Party have decided to vote against the Schengen Agreement when it comes to Stortinget? The clear statement in the setting cannot be understood in any other way. Does it also mean that the recommendation of the Central Party to the Government of which they are members is that it should oppose the Schengen Agreement which it has negotiated?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e579	At first I would like to express that I didn't think anyone had a hard time for it, I almost assured the opposite. In fact, on the question of appropriations, we have had a significant increase in a budget that had been well cleared in advance by resources. I think it's a little interesting that the Right – of all people – questions whether the judiciary should get 50 or 100 million. kr more to strengthen the police, to an important point. I think that's a little interesting to hear. It's not more than two years since the same game were the ones that had the least to go with, so the memory of Heresy is not particularly impressive, you ask me. To Schengen again: we are actually in that situation – and I assume that is also the case with the Right and the representative of the Netherlands – that we have not even received the text of the new agreement. Then to start asking what the center party will do is unreasonable. He clearly understands that before we can take such a position, we should – and I can assure him of that – have a thorough review of the text of the agreement, which goes on the institutional issues. I think I can assure Hernæs that we will make our choices when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e588	After my previous reply to the representative Åse Wisløff Nilssen, she said in her reply that the Workers' Party had now also begun to think completely. I must say that then she could not have followed much in the hour. If there is something that characterises the Workers' Party in terms of criminal policy, it is a holistic idea. But what I thought was very important was the admission she made to the pulpit. She said that the most important thing when it comes to the negotiations that took place at the budgetary conciliation was to get a government budget in place, and she clearly said that she could have thought of a different profile compared to the distribution of the 100 million. NOK that was available. Then the same question must go to one of the other partners in the government we have, to the Central Party and to the representative Tor Nymo: Is Nymo also of the opinion that the profile of the budgetary agreement that has been concluded is not the right one, that he should wish for something else to be the case?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e596	I am also very surprised by the sudden concern of the Workers' Party over the profile of the budget, because when the Workers' Party was in position, the strong signals from the organisation that organizes civil servants in criminal matters were given that they had to lift that part of the criminal justice chain. It didn't happen. The current Council of State Valla was properly reviewed because she could not give the budget a profile where the police also got a lift. So I think – with respect to reporting – that it is reasonably speculative of the Workers' Party and the representative Rasmussen now to express such great concern about exactly the criminal justice system. If I'm allowed to say that it seems a little bit hollow, it'll probably be a reasonably comprehensive expression.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e601	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e604	Poor policies to combat crime are adopted in 1999. And it's not because the bulk of the population has agreed with SV – it's actually SV's proposal of 100 million. kr more to the police who will be adopted here today – it is not because it will be adopted at the end. This is because these crowns are taken from children and young people, and because the majority of the population have simultaneously adopted a budget for the municipalities, which means that many important measures to prevent crime and violence are now under the edge of the country and the beach. Even measures for young people in big cities have been cut by 2 million. kr. It's funny and petty. For traders – the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party – it has been more important to ensure that high-wage groups and those who earn millions of capital should not pay a single penny more in taxes than fighting crime through preventive work. And if the Progress Party were to have a full impact on its local economy or youth policy, we would be in a situation where we could never get enough police in Norway. I refer to the financial position regarding SV's overall proposals in the justice sector, and I want to spend the time I have, to say some important things about criminal policy. In SV we want to strengthen the police. There is a need for more police in the streets and police who can actively participate in preventive work. When the police have too little capacity, they have e.g. not being able to follow up a 14-year-old who they find in free flight in the middle of the night down at the Central Station, grab him and drive him home to his parents, wake them up, say what is happening, and perhaps follow them up the next day. When the police have too much capacity, they don't have time to talk it over with a victim of violence who may have been exposed to something she'll never forget for the rest of her life. They have to leave her to go on the next callout. If you don't have enough resources, you get a blue light police. Before I go further, I just want to remind you that there are two areas where we have major problems of violence in Norway today. One is the one visible, which generally hits men with proms on the streets. The second is the invisible, which affects women mostly at home. It is as serious and deserves not to be as hidden as it is. These are women and children who cannot be safe in their own home. It is a field that requires much greater effort. We in SV have proposed that more women should go to the restaurant, and more sober men should be at home. It would have been an effective and active fight against crime. I've been talking a lot to police lately. On various politicians around the country, a real job is done. It is particularly important that it is brought down on the first offence. Young people cannot commit 20-30-40 serious crimes until they meet the judiciary. It's important for two reasons. It's important to stop the individual youth, the individual who's about to get into a criminal racetrack. But it's also important to send signals to the other kids around, who may be in the same crowd, but not leading, to show them that crime doesn't pay off, that it's not tolerated. In SV, we're concerned with a criminal policy that actually works. When 80 pst. Of those who are in prison, who have the son before, it is one of the great defeats we have. That means that the tools we use most seem bad. In SV, we've been involved in near-politics, and I've noticed with great pleasure that this budget is adding something that means a lot in my community, namely that we can get our own police station. We are 100,000 people who have the Police House as our local police station. It is so scary and scary that we hardly dare to renew the passport! So we need to get in line with other people around the country, we think we're good. So some words about integration policy: there is no one in this room who has to pretend to be talking about my children and the kids of others. Those young people who have problems, who have a different cultural background than Norwegian children, are our kids. There are no kids that can be sent anywhere. There are great demands for a proper integration policy, and then we have to make sure that the kids know that they can do something about their own everyday lives. Too many of these kids know adults who get 120 applications for a job in return — not because they can't Norwegian, not because they don't have qualifications, but because they have a strange name or a different cultural background. [[The President clubs.]] It can't be that the only people they see in the neighborhoods around them who have succeeded are those who have turned on a criminal racetrack. They're the ones with the finest cars, the prettiest ladies and most money. It can't be like that!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e621	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e624	I'd like to start by commending the last speaker for a strong commitment. Furthermore, I would like to be allowed to express that I do not stop wondering about SV. From being in charge of Lisbeth Holand's regime, where you almost didn't have a penny for the police, we had a transition last year with Solheim, where we put on a few crowns to strengthen the police, and to the representative who had the word now, who was almost proud that the party was approaching the Progress Party in strengthening the Police and Lensmen's Senate. It's a strong transition to record. I would like to have said that I fully agree with Kristin Halvorsen when she expresses the need to prevent and, not least among children and young people, have the opportunity at an early stage to enter home where parents have problems with borderlining, where, due to drug abuse, there is a significant care failure. We don't disagree with that point at all. In fact, I wish that the discussion we are having on youth issues, to see if one can catch up with the kids in the past, could provide the basis for a broader debate, including on resources to implement the necessary measures. But I totally disagree with the representative Halvorsen when she says that the existing state budget will make this difficult. It's positively wrong, ask me.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e633	If I was a central party magnification representative, I might spend my time wondering a little bit more about the centre party than about SV. But I'm not going to keep going in the same spooky tone. The question was whether this is a cover from SV, something completely new. No! No! But I think maybe the commitment, the emphasis in the argument is new. Take, for example: The Arms Act. Which party was it that consistently followed up what was the majority of the Arms Commission in this Chamber, for example. in the case of penalties? The majority of the population adopted a puzzled three-month penalty, while we followed the majority of the sample in six months. Many other suggestions on the matter testified that many in the hall thought they were hunting and not in the Oslo center. It's a poorer budget to fight crime. Take, for example: the cash support. Now Oslo can prove that very many immigrant mothers want cash support and apply for it. A large number of kroner could have been used in the capital to ensure e.g.: that all children could get a few hours of free babysitting every day at the earliest possible time – it could be a sensible policy! It could have been a very sensible policy! Then some children could both get a closer link to their own culture, and also get a solid Norwegian leg to stand on. Take the proposal to increase parental pay to the school leisure scheme. I know how this works from my own everyday life. This means that many of those who are home mothers will not be able to afford to have their children in school leave — of course not. It means poorer contact between Norwegian children and children with a different cultural background, and it means more fragmented child and youth settings. It is simply a very bad prevention policy!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e644	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e647	A few weeks ago, we had a strong press debate on the security of people in Oslo. The debate was largely linked to the fear of youth gangs, and it also concerned the question of child and youth safety. A key task for society is to safeguard people's security and, almost as important, people's sense of security. It concerns security for themselves, for their children, for parents and neighbours, and for homes and homes. It is important to be concerned about this, and then it is important to be involved in adequate instruments to provide greater security. In this context, appropriate instruments are far more than just a matter of greater police force and more effective criminal justice, although there may be important measures in themselves. It is important to avoid stigmatisation and to avoid the expulsion of persons on the basis of their origin, appearance, etc. It is also part of the security aspect. It is also important that we take responsibility for each other, and that we are committed to what individual citizens can contribute here in terms of creating greater security. As far as police and criminal justice are concerned, there is a joyful strengthening of this in the draft budget promoted by the Judicial Committee. To the extent that increased police efforts and increased efforts in the area of criminal justice can contribute to greater security, the budget makes a clear contribution in this direction. We have just dealt with the criminal report and through it expressed the different views we have, relating to criminal policy and criminal justice, and that is why I do not want to spend so much more time on this. However, it is important to stress that criminal justice also needs to be concerned with values and rehabilitation of people, rather than further exclusion. We have already been involved in prevention is important, and it is clear that a good police force, a visible and present police force, is an important part of the prevention of criminal offences and the need to provide people with security. Furthermore, it is also important to be oriented towards organised crime and to protect against it. However, continued prevention is far more than that. There is also talk of social policy in a far wider sense than just what is related to the Ministry of Justice budget and to crime prevention there. I very much want to stress that justice policy, the legal community and other responsibilities under the Ministry of Justice are far more than criminal law and crime policy. I have to say that I think the committee position is clearly marked by a one-sided focus on the crime side and an under-estimation of the other important tasks for the ministry. The courts are the most important institution in the rule of law, and the rule of law is something far more than just criminal justice and the fight against crime. It is also a matter of having an effective body for resolving disputes between citizens. There are also important issues such as follow-up to child protection cases, child distribution cases, etc., and I believe that this part of the tasks of the courts is far too little visible in the work of the Justice Committee. The well-being records are also important, and I only hope and assume that when it is done cut there, it will not go beyond a bet on form simplification, among other things. for small and medium-sized enterprises. Privacy, the Data Protection Agency, I would have liked to say a lot about it, but I just want to stress that privacy is something more than a counterpost to crime prevention. Privacy itself is an important value, which may have far more implications than the ones you usually give it. Finally, I must be allowed to state that at one point I am actually pleased that the Ministry of Justice's proposal has not received a majority in the committee, and that is in the matter of the closure of Vik aid prison. I think it's an important institution to maintain for many reasons, which unfortunately I don't have time to go into more detail now.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e668	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e671	It was a pleasure for the representative Hove to find something to enjoy in a otherwise miserable position – if I understood him correctly. Otherwise, I noticed that he continued to underestimate the importance of the police's appropriations, as Tor Nymo said earlier. I must be allowed to remind him that, through the budgetary agreement with the Right and the Advance Party, we were also able to cancel the appropriations to the courts. So it's connected. We've gone through the whole chain to get a better crime policy. Otherwise, I will go back to a previous line change on the Schengen cooperation. I noticed that the representative Nymo was almost indignant that I could allow myself to ask questions based on a document he had not seen. I agree – and accept self-criticism in this area – that it is quite unheard of to expect a representative from the Central Party to stick to what they have meant through two documents, into a debate. So I'm just asking myself the question: the document you now need to think of what you obviously mean, what access did you have to it when you wrote the Adult Declaration last fall? And what was the approach to the document when we wrote the position on this issue, where it is clear that these parties are opposed to Norway's connection to Schengen? Then I have to try to get the representative of Hove to respond to the representative of Nymo who could not answer: will the Left recommend the government parties to vote in favour of the Schengen agreement negotiated by the Government? Will the representative Hove vote in favour of the agreement here in the Chamber, or will he follow what was said in the Waxenås statement and in the vote, without having access to any document other than his own world of performance? How will he deal with this matter when it comes to treatment in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e680	I want to start by pointing out that what I said was not what was in the setting, was wrong or something I could not join. I also did not use the word "disgusting" about the setting in any way. That's what didn't say there, I asked for it. It was to get the focus away from the fact that this is about criminal justice and the fight against crime alone – that it is actually something far more. I also did not say negatively about the police appropriations. I made it very clear that the police are an important part of effective criminal prosecution, which I believe is important, and that the police have an important task in relation to prevention. What I underlined was that the prevention work is much more, and it is actually a part of that in the position of the Justice Committee – which I am pleased with as well. The representative Hernæs was far removed from some of the things that are my point when he mentioned this with major appropriations to the courts. The point is that when more funds are provided to the courts, the justification is only linked to the very criminal justice area and to having a more effective criminal case chain, taking bottlenecks, etc. - and that's what's right. My point is that strengthening the courts is actually important beyond that area, and that's what's not in the setting. Then to the Schengen Agreement. I didn't say anything about it in the post, because on the basis of the line-up earlier, I felt sure to get a line that made me say something about it afterwards. It is right that in June 1997 the Left voted against Norway's accession to Schengen, and so we have been against that agreement. The current renegotiation concerns not the substantive content of the Schengen Agreement, but the institutional issues. A final point of view from the Left on that question will be waiting for us, for example. has received the assessment from the lawyers who are required to assess its legality. But there is a lot of evidence to suggest that the government has done a good job with regard to the part to be negotiated.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e695	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e698	The aim of the Labour Party is to take care of the security of people, that everyone can feel safe from abuse and let go of walking around and feel fear. A society of justice and security is preventative, it will dampen social and ethnic contradictions, power and crime. This requires a holistic policy that gives all rights to education and work and guarantees social security through Community solutions for both young and older people. In later times, we have seen that the public authority on the streets and on the outdoors has developed dangerously and is frightening to many of us. In addition, we know that the hidden cellar in the homes has a much larger extent. We know that women of all ages and minors are affected. The abuse of women is happening all over the world, and one can ask the question, Why? It's a global problem and, therefore, it's not related to cultural traditions, as many claim. In our country, the extent is large. More than 10,000 women are treated every year in the health care system for the physical injuries they are caused by husbands or cohabitants. Here you can only imagine all those who never go to the lake, even if they have a lot of damage. In recent times, we have seen pictures of the beautiful Indian girl and read about how highly unlikely she has been mistreated. Around these women, there are often both one and more children, so that the number of people who walk in everyday fear in their own homes is doubled. We all know how difficult it is to go into the private space and disrupt the private space. But what's left of freedom when women and children go 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and 365 days a year in fear of something happening? For this reason, I am pleased that an assembly committee has asked the Ministry of Justice to consider setting up a women's election committee to raise the debate into public space. It can mean security for a minor child to hear that violence and harassment in the world are not accepted, feel that society is busy with the problem, and that one is not alone in it, rather forgotten in the debate. The private authority is a general problem and appears to be practiced by all types of men from all walks of life and in all age groups. And as I said, we see that it is directed primarily towards children and women – and not forgetting the older women. I want to balance the post and point out that there are also women who beat men and children, who also need the help of society, but on a much, much smaller scale. Today, we have great regard for the power we are subjected to in the public space, in the disco or in a taxi queue in a heavily loaded street here in Oslo. The fear is something we can choose from by not going in such places or in such areas, but the fear one has of entering his own private home, nobody picks up. We are therefore content to say that this power is not acceptable, and society has a responsibility to get it into the public debate, to research into the causes and to see how we will jointly fight against the frightening developments. The selected editor is a term that is used. When children grow up with power being used to gain authority and power over their own families, they will give an example of how to master the role of adults themselves. It is therefore a social responsibility that we address this problem to public debate, and that through our experience and actions we can help women and children in our own country, but also women in the world community. There will be content in the goal of a better society in which everyone can live safely, without feeling fear of what will unexpectedly happen in the private sphere that the world is too many of us. We want everyone to feel that security. So, in the Labour Party, we want a public selection that can go into the problem, and we also need an order for victims of violence. We have also seen that recently – they need protection for what they are exposed to in such a chosen society.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e717	The main areas of action of the government in the justice sector in 1999 are: reduced crime, security and legal certainty; transparency and democracy; and human asylum and refugee policy. I am happy to register that there is a broad consensus on this. The government will contribute on a broad basis to a social development that is crime prevention. Often, crime is a result of environments that do not give man roothold, contact, and positive challenges. This implies social development that promotes transparency and belonging, ensures fair distribution and contributes to good growth conditions for children and young people. The government will continue to give priority to combating crime in areas such as: violent crime, drug crime and internationally organised crime. In addition, it is important to combat so-called everyday crime, where winning crimes are the main focus of the offences. In particular, the government will give priority to the fight against crime of violence. Racist-motivated violence and conflicts between youth groups form part of the violence, especially in the big cities. The same applies to the unprovoked violence that is completely meaningless. As part of the prevention and control of the crime of violence, the Government presented the ‘Centre of Safety’ action plan earlier in the autumn. Several measures involve targeted efforts by the police to be visible in places and at times where there is a risk of violence. Crime of violence shall be combated by the police and in close cooperation between different ministries, local authorities and non-governmental organisations. Oslo police districts are facing particularly major challenges and will receive increased funding for this effort. The government also continues to work to improve the situation of crime victims. The pilot projects with crime victims advisory offices and the Centre for the Competence of Victim Work will be continued in 1999. The government will also step up the fight against economic crime and organised crime across borders, where the fight against the abuse of children in particular is a priority. Important emphasis will be placed on international police cooperation and on cooperation with other cross-sectoral and governmental bodies. In the fight against crime, the Government follows two main strategies: strengthening prevention and effective prosecution of crime. In prevention, it will be particularly important to focus action on children and young people. It is essential to capture those at risk of committing criminal acts in such a way that they are made clear their responsibility for their actions. Here, the conflict management system and school mediation are key instruments. At the same time, it is important to further develop cross-border and committed cooperation between local police, other public agencies and voluntary forces. The government believes that a visible police with good knowledge of local conditions will be an important prevention measure. A service based on proximity to the population will contribute to the security of the community. In the process of reorganising the policing and policing seat, a decentralised establishment will be maintained that provides a good overview and knowledge of the local environment. It is also important to have effective criminal prosecution after offences. This implies an increased risk of detection and a faster clarification of the cases. At the same time, the judiciary must react quickly so that settlement can be started at the earliest opportunity. This will also have a clear preventive effect. The police have been strengthened by several budgetary procedures in recent years. One of the challenges will be to ensure a better distribution of resources and manpower between police departments. There is now a thorough investigation of these issues in the so-called resource project for the Police and National Police College. The government considers it a central task to improve the flow and interaction of the various stages of the criminal action chain. The various parts of the criminal justice chain are closely linked. The treatment of the criminal health notification shows that there is a broad consensus on the main challenges ahead. An important task will be to facilitate the content of criminal enforcement in such a way as to reduce the risk of new criminal acts. The convicted person shall be stimulated to make his own efforts to change his criminal pattern of action. The government will focus on achieving a comprehensive, progressive and customizable completion. The overall state budget for 1999 is very tight. In such a situation, it is gratifying to see that the Storting today adopts a budget for the justice sector which, in my view, provides a good basis for the work to be done in 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e751	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e754	Following the mention of the Schengen cooperation in the budget proposal, I am convinced that the Minister of Justice will recommend the Schengen Agreement and use his influence to influence the other central comrades. So I'm not going to use this opportunity to scour the Minister of Justice more about the content or, if necessary, the position of Schengen. I am pleased that after some turbulence, which has now ceased, the new guidelines for refugee and asylum policy have become more calm, which means that a few more groups may be allowed to stay in Norway with refugee status, although in some cases the Minister of Justice goes a little further in that decoration than the majority believes is in the guidelines. But I'll pass it here. The decision in individual cases is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. And the Labour Party in Stortinget has, unlike previous opposition parties, been very careful about going into individual matters, because we don't know all the information. My questions are related to asylum decisions in general, and the impression that it may not matter as much if you get yes or no, because a very large proportion of those who have been denied remain in Norway. The Department of Justice doesn't quite know how many, it says, and it's in itself a problem. I have two questions. One is: what does the Ministry of Justice do to ensure that someone follows up, so that there is actually a difference between getting a yes or no to asylum stays? The second question is more about the individual. What does the Minister of Justice do if it is not possible to return the asylum seeker and there has been so much time that one actually has to find a lasting solution? How long does that mean? It is important both for individuals and for the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e767	I figured that part of the audience noticed that I did not have the right to mention the word Schengen in my post, but we will probably come back to that. What the representative, Mr Bjørnstad, points out, that an asylum decision has no meaning is, of course, not correct. But what is right is that there are some who have been denied their request for a stay in Norway, which is difficult to send out, and there are various reasons for this. I'll just mention a few. First, there are those who go underground and try to hide by changing their place of residence and living with friends and acquaintances, and therefore it is not possible to trace for apprehension and return. It's a pretty big problem. Then we have a lot of things – unfortunately not so few – where asylum seekers have made sure to get rid of their identity documents, and state different identities. When you try to find out who they are and where they come from, there are constantly new explanations, and in some cases it's very difficult to get the final evidence. This is something the sector has been struggling with for some years. Then we have a group where it is not possible to return to the home country. This may be because there are very unsafe conditions in your home country, so you choose to leave them for security reasons, because no one should be returned for persecution. It may also be because there are some countries that do not accept their own citizens, and then there is little we can do. Much is being done by the Department, not least through international cooperation, to try to solve these problems. And when it's not possible to return for security reasons, like we do. have seen Kosovo, both Norway and other countries have chosen to say that when it is not possible and it is not the applicant’s own fault, we will allow them to stay when it has been over. Then I can show that on the last crossroads Sweden stayed for Kosovo Albanians who have been in Sweden from before 1 January 1995, in Norway we said from before 1 January 1997.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e782	This debate has been a bit strange in a way, because many have stressed prevention, while others have stressed criminal prosecution, while the point is that we need both. And not just that: we go in for both. In addition, criminal prosecution is actually preventive in some cases. My question to the Minister of Justice is based on the statement in the evening post today that shoplifting in many cases is not being met with a reaction. I remember an exchange of lines between the Minister of Justice and I had last year, which went on this with the fact that no criminal case with a known perpetrator should be settled, but just met with a reaction, and there we totally agreed. What I want from the Minister of Justice is a confirmation that the contact with which the trade in goods has now come will be met with great interest and willingness to do something, so that many of these young people who do shoplifting also experience a concrete reaction. Today, there are very different practices from district to district. In some areas, the police are now automatically fined by shoplifting, as the article in the evening post shows, while elsewhere nothing is done. Then we can agree that this is not acceptable practice, and that the department, together with the country's police officers, is trying to intensify the response to this petty crime so that Norway can take the same benefits as it has done in New York, that is, bring down the total crime by just intervening and responding to the small, emerging cases of crime that we see. Then maybe we can avoid a 14-year-old girl stealing $30,000 in half a year because she's not being stopped in time, as the paper says.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e791	In my article, I put a lot of emphasis on prevention, which is not just what happens before the first-time criminals get into that situation, it's also in rapid criminal proceedings and in having relevant reactions. Now I know that the head of the Judicial Committee is well aware of the division of responsibilities between the Ministry of Justice and the courts, and this is a subject which has also been raised by the Advocate General, so to the extent that we still have a job to do in this area, I am absolutely sure that the Ministry of Justice and the Advocate General will agree on that work. When it comes to showing juvenile criminals from the first crime that this is unwanted behavior, we don't want this in Norwegian society, I totally agree that it's very important that we get into everyday crime and downplay petty crime. And this is something on which the government put a significant emphasis in its action plan ‘Security in the Centre’, which was presented earlier this autumn. We have grasped some of the experiences that have been made in the United States and elsewhere, tried to adapt them to Norwegian conditions and have been very clear that just to ensure that the law is observed even in the small circumstances is very important in order to prevent major crimes later on. So here, there's a complete consensus between the questioner and me in terms of vision and priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e798	Kristin Krohn Devold stated that when one is going to shape a policy to combat crime, one must have two thoughts in his head at the same time, both the one about reactions and the one about prevention. The problem is that the right is rather poor on one and that their impact on the budget actually makes prevention of child labour and youth work considerably worse. The municipal economy was already in poor condition, and we know that many municipalities are struggling to maintain their services, and there are a lot of earmarked funds in other areas, for example. In the case of care for the elderly, which municipalities need to prioritize and spend money to provide, we see that the cuts particularly affect schools, leisure activities for children and young people – that children and young people are hit hardest. That is why I would like to hear the Minister of Justice's view on whether this overall is a good preventive government budget. When local authorities and local councils are in charge of child protection, is that a good budget for prevention? When we look at the schools that employed an environmental worker, who has done a lot of the job that the janitor always did at school before, namely being an adult person as a part, especially boys maybe, got help and support from, from which they could turn, is it a good preventive budget when these environmental workers disappear largely? Can we not now find ourselves in a situation where we can strengthen the police with the SV's proposals, but that the police have very few to cooperate with around to prevent young people from entering a criminal racetrack?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e803	Sometimes you want to grab the old politician's bottle: I'm very happy to get this question. Because that gives me the opportunity to respond to a widespread misunderstanding. First of all, I know the local government sector so well that I know that it is also possible to prioritise within a narrow framework; I have a long experience with this from my many years in both municipal and county policy. The second is the misunderstanding that is based on the fact that police action has been rejected. Then what I want to stress is that the police are actually doing a very extensive prevention work in very close and good cooperation with other agencies. The police don't have much to cooperate with. That's what we've been doing to make sure that we're also strengthening the year that's now gone by. So we have a whole series of collaborations that attract the home, that attract the school, that attract the non-governmental organisations, and the police are often the ones that coordinate the work. So, with the same requirements for efficiency and proper distribution of resources in the police that you have to do in other sectors of municipal and county policy, that the questioner came up with, I know that here we have the opportunity to do this in a way that would be highly preventive. It might have been desirable to have more resources at your disposal, okay, but we should remember the political debate that has been about the real situation for Norway lately. It was important to have a budget with the necessary rigour to help us achieve both lower interest rates and other positive effects, which will benefit both the municipal sector and the state.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e811	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e814	A policy that provides low interest rates, low price increases and, above all, low unemployment is the best basis for meeting the challenges facing you in the justice sector. With these elements in place, a good starting point is to ensure safe and good family relationships, to give children and young people the best possible growth conditions and to give them the opportunity to use their abilities, and last but not least to meet the challenges facing society today in terms of worrying crime developments. In this latter case, the prevention work of the highest value has been underlined repeatedly by the Workers' Party today. It's worth noting that at a time when the number of policemen and the visible police in the streets are in focus, there's also a lot of attention from the police force. That is why there is real concern in part of the budgetary agreement between the centre parties and the Right and the Progress Party. Reducing government funding for the school leisure system will go primarily beyond those with the weakest economy, which in turn may lead to the loss of the children who need this offer most in order to provide everyday structure and content. The use of a babysitting system will not improve the situation. At all, the economic situation in many municipalities in the country can lead to harm caused by the prevention of child-related harm. This is particularly worrying when one knows in advance that some of the parties that are now responsible for a further weakening of the local economy are already not among those who give priority to this work the highest in the municipalities. Another area where the conciliation gives cause for concern is the level of labour market measures that will make it even more difficult for those with the greatest difficulty of entering the labour market today. These include, among others: people with a criminal background. Interesting projects between criminal and labour market services are now underway, and it would be extremely regrettable if this work were put in reverse. The best starting point for rehabilitation and for working in society is without a doubt having a regular job to go to. With regard to violence and the problem of gangs a particular one is facing in Oslo, it is a fact that young people with a migrant background are overrepresented. This must be taken seriously, but it is not enough just to strengthen the police, something not least the media angle would make you believe. It is necessary to address the underlying causes, and then work on the integration of our new countrymen becomes absolutely central. As in the corresponding debate last year, I would like to remind you of St.meld. No 17 for 1996-97, on immigration and multicultural Norway, a communication that provides a good basis for this work. In the light of the broad political consensus behind the measures set out in the Communication, it is important that the Government, in cooperation with the other key actors, provides the broad side in the implementation of the actions. The budget agreement, which is worth 20 million. DKK for grants for training of linguistic minorities in primary school, nor do you make good promises here. The interaction between the police, the courts and the criminal justice system is essential for a comprehensive and results-oriented criminal policy. It is therefore necessary to focus on the latter two as well, and the Labour Party has therefore emphasised this in the allocation of the increased funds allocated to it in the justice sector. An important and alarming feature of the crime scene is the increased internationalisation. In order to combat cross-border crime, it is important to put the Schengen Agreement in place. In this context, the Government must facilitate the orderly and constructive treatment of the agreement. So over to something completely different, namely the rescue service and the access to demand reimbursement for rescue operations where there is gross negligence. As in the previous budget proposal, the Ministry of Justice writes that a person wants to tighten up in relation to current practice. I would like to remind you that last year the Committee gave the green light for a tightening up, and then one must be able to assume a speedy implementation. I would also like to comment on the decision taken by Stortinget in connection with the handling of Doc. No 8:14 for 1997-98, on the establishment of a fund for the search for the dead at sea, in which a government asked for a declaration on the establishment of a fund or other financial instrument for the search for the dead at sea in connection with the presentation of the State budget for 1999. This clarification has not been provided by the Government. According to my concepts, this is serious, which is regrettable. I would like to stress that a majority of the Committee, consisting of the Progress Party and the Labour Party, is behind this criticism of the Government. Coast Norway has been waiting a long time for a decision in this case, and then it will not keep setting up a new sample. Clearance must now be made as soon as possible in 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e844	I'm not going to talk this time about either wolf, sales or otter, for that matter, but I'm going to grab hold of what Jan Petter Rasmussen said until the end, and a two-three other things. It is regrettable that the minority in the Committee does not share the reality of a decision taken by the majority, consisting of the Labour Party and the Advance Party. The size of the fund clearly stated that they would clarify the question of whether a fund should be set up. It is inevitable that the question has not been clarified, and that is also contrary to the Waksenås statement as far as I have read it. The committee working on the matter is well and good. A selection has also worked on this before, and the matter has been clarified enough. I do not doubt what the conclusion will be when the sample presents its position in March, but it is necessary to take a decision on whether or not to set up a fund. The size of the fund and the way it is to be financed should be returned to the Financial Committee, and there should always be advice on finding funding for it. I find it regrettable that this case, which has been going on for so many years, is being postponed again. This concerns the right of the coastal population to have a grave to go to – in line with the indigenous people, who have the natural right. I should also say a little about the rescue helicopter service. It has been decided by the Ministry of Justice to move the rescue helicopter from Vigra to Rygge. I have raised several times the question of a better rescue service in the Oslofjorden and Skagerrak area. There won't be a better rescue service by taking from one to the other and giving to the other. There is a need for rescue services in both places. Moving the helicopter from Vigra to Rygge is not a good solution. The Schengen Agreement was mentioned so far, and I must say a few words about it too. If the Schengen Agreement is adopted, it is a disaster for the fishing industry. Only ten import ports are approved. Five of them are located in North Norway, i.e. in the area where the most fish are landed: in Kirkenes, Båtsfjord, Hammerfest, Tromsø and Svolvær. The fish on land shall be subject to control. Then it's to be transported out to the fish farms for production. Is it not clear that here we are in one of the most gigantic centralizations we have ever had in Norway, if this is adopted? The matter is probably even worse than that, because there are probably fewer than ten ports lying in the cards. This is the Ministry of Justice aware of this, and I assume that it will also be made known to the Stortinget on the day of the adoption of the Schengen Agreement. I'm just pointing at it now, because this is a fact that definitely must be on the table, and it's not possible to boil it away in the cabbage and just talk about police cooperation, because it's not just what it's all about in this case. So a little bit about asylum seekers and immigration. During the Nordic Council I was here – I really shouldn't have been here, because I'm not in the Nordic Council. I met a guy on the Lion Hill one day. He asked for the police. I speak Arabic – he could hardly speak English, but I know a few words Arabic – and then I was told that the guy had come from Iraq. He wanted to thank the police. I asked how he had come here on the lion's tray, and whether he had passports and papers? No, he had nothing. I thought you threw it, I said. Yeah, he didn't have anything. So I had to help him with the police. Then it turned out that the guy had come running through Turkey, through Italy, I suppose, and Holland, and here he had come, and on the lion's tray he stood. That was the result without us being in Schengen. I now got hold of a guard, and then I let the guard take care of this. For so far the guy had come in the right place, he had come to the Stortinget, and we're well able to give people asylum, we're the ones who decide that. But I now see it was a bit mostly made that he was standing on the lion's tray and asked for asylum.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e855	In the budget position of the Justice Committee, there is a separate chapter on drugs in prisons. This indicates that the Committee considers this issue to be of particular importance when it asks for action and highlights these issues in a budgetary debate. The Committee welcomes the plan promised by the Minister of Justice to be presented in good time before Easter. It is important that this issue is dealt with promptly when we know the extent to which drug use and drug trafficking are occurring in Norwegian prisons. In this context, it is vital in the fight against drug abuse that the political environment gives clear signals that lower penalties for drug law offences are not tolerated and that the law should be considerably strengthened. 32 out of 46 drug convictions treated by the Supreme Court between 1995 and 1997 ended with a reduction in punishment. Only four of the cases ended with the penalty being increased. Like the Ordinance, the Progress Party is very concerned about developments when so many drug offenders could enjoy a milder punishment after having tried their punishment for the Supreme Court. Decisions taken by the Supreme Court often constitute a precedent and become a guide to the other courts. It is therefore a negative signal the country's Supreme Court gives to the city and county courts and law enforcement authorities when it is thus expressed that the criminal investigations in the bulletins are generally too high in drug matters. That's why it's the intention of the Progress Party to give just as clear signals back to our justice that you're on a collision course with the legislators. I assume that this includes the Government and the country's Minister of Justice. The Progress Party notes that last year the police and customs took heavy amphetamine seizures and that this was a sharp increase from previous years. The introduction of amphetamines is one example of areas where the Supreme Court has contributed to a reduction in the level of penalties. In the past, drug traffickers risked 15–21 years of imprisonment if they introduced 2 kg or more of amphetamine. The police department is very concerned about developments and believes that reducing the level of penalties in drug cases is particularly negative because it occurs at a time when the drug formally flows across borders, where drug seizures do not sink and new drugs are still entering the market. A reduction in penalties does not see the Progress Party as a precautionary measure – on the contrary. The government points out that the fight against organised crime should be intensified by, inter alia: directing efforts towards international criminal organisations, including: by means of measures against illegal immigration. For this reason, the Progress Party finds it particularly contradictory when the same government will extend immigration opportunities to Norway through so-called humane asylum and refugee policy. This is to send the wrong signals to the outside world. We know that today, foreign gangs applying for refuge in Norway actually control over 90 pst. of drug turnover, particularly in Norwegian prisons. Also, when there is no law that says that foreigners who commit criminal acts are to be expelled from the Kingdom, it is to make the door high and the door wide for criminal elements from abroad in order to be able to establish themselves in the country. In the fight against crime, police, prosecutors, judiciary and prison services need more funding for their respective agencies. Therefore, the Progress Party not only proposes a general strengthening of the judicial budget, but we also see the need to re-prioritize funds between administrative units for necessary tasks within the overall judicial budget. Finally, I would like to say that the Progress Party, among other things, is satisfied with the decision taken in the context of the Crime Prevention Communication on the construction of a new region prison for the East. We want it to be allocated 5 million. kr for the pre-projection of a new prison in Eastfold and an extension of the training of prison guards.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e872	I love the media's focus on violence, as we've seen this fall. The image of violence is not new to us, but we have seen a deterioration in the gravity and in the participation of children and young people. Such a long, broad focus as the one that has been in the harvest, I think in itself can help to help the situation. We all react with anger and disgust when we hear and read about episodes, and the immediate reaction is often called for more police and more punishment. We all agree that we need that. That is why we have established 2000 new posts in the police in recent years. Therefore, a few days ago, the Storting decided unanimously that police students must be offered access to crime-fighting work, and that is why we are in the process of reorganising to decentralize and make the police visible. We all agree that violence should be punished more severely than is the case today. We agree that the reactions have to get faster, we agree that we need to have more use of custody, so that once you have committed a criminal act, you have less opportunity to continue with it. But such a long-standing focus comes to light that we need more than police and punishment. The greater the breadth and depth of the debate and the more actors involved in the debate, the better we are illustrated that there are no easy solutions here, and the better we get what has been the Workers' Party's message for years, namely that the fight against crime requires a comprehensive policy, an effort at all levels. It's about stopping crime before it evolves, it's about choking it while it's still glowing, before it evolves to become a fire. Then we save the suffering of their victims and their families, we save the perpetrator to live a destructive life, and we save society from huge financial expenses. But to combat crime, we're talking more than police, we're talking, for example. on the local economy. In the alternative budget of the Workers' Party, we wanted to strengthen it by NOK 1 billion, among other things. precisely to ensure leisure clubs, in order to ensure cultural measures for young people and others, in order to ensure the school leisure system. We want a really babysitting that's cheaper and more accessible to everyone. We want a psychiatry offer also for the young, we want Norwegian training for linguistic minorities, we want less access to weapons. This list may be made long. It is not about either or, but it is about a perfect investment and a total investment in many sectors. Like Astrid Marie Nistad, I also hope that we will now have as much focus on domestic violence as we have had on street violence this fall. The statistics show that the very most dangerous place children and women can stay is actually home. Another key word in the fight against crime is to be held accountable. The businessman has to understand what he's doing. Melling has proved very effective in this regard. A few weeks ago, I talked to a 15-year-old boy who used to be the head of the school mobster. He has now become the leader of the school mediation gang. He described his first meeting with school mediation like this: I did not react so much at the meeting, but besides evening saw it inwards me what it was we had driven with. And then I wanted to puke. When we see how effective and successful the school mediation is, the Labour Party wants to spend $2 million. kr more to ensure that all schools wishing to do so are given the opportunity. And the big brother of the school mediation, the conflict council, turns out to be a bigger success than anyone had dared to hope for. Almost everyone who participates is satisfied, and almost all agreements are respected. The perpetrator is held responsible and the victim is given a retribution. Fortunately, therefore, a unanimous committee calls for more cases to be sent to the conflict councils, and we look forward to the assessment of mediation as additional measures for convicted persons. This accountability is also a key word in criminal law. It is wasted stay and wasted money if the compensation does nothing to the prisoner. On the doormat in Eidsberg relief prison, it says ironically ‘Welcome again’, but the tragic thing is that eight out of ten follow that call. And then there's something fundamentally wrong. Therefore, the criminal health report we have adopted in Stortinget must be followed up with crowns. The working party is now proposing to use 38 million. kr. I hope that we get a majority to spend more money on that sector at the next crossroads. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions that the Labour Party has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e893	Ane Sofie Timberås has taken up the suggestions she referred to. The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e898	Crime scares everyone and hits a lot of people. Neither in the street nor in the living room are we safe. The right-wing parties call out louder on more visible police in the streets, and it's a paradox when we know that most of the violence is actually happening in the home. I believe that the role of the right hand party is not credible. One thing is that they do not want to see criminal policy in a wider political context. In Oslo, the policies of these parties have been as far as possible – and as far as possible – free flow of alcohol. At the same time, they have been involved in the reduction of prevention measures among children and young people. Positive youth settings, such as: Junior and leisure clubs were in fact shattered when the Right Party and the Advance Party were placed with the City Council in Oslo. Putting resources into families with immigrants is also not exactly what these parties are at the forefront of. So what we see now in terms of violence and rang is, among other things, the outcome of the policy pursued by the Right and the Progressive Party in Oslo. Child crime is a direct consequence of the failure of child protection, school and parents. Ran is the drug addict's source of income. At the same time, the treatment provision for these is far too small and too poor. What about e.g. a waiting list guarantee for the treatment of drug addicts? Violence and killing must also be seen in connection with the failure of psychiatry. We need to see contexts and take responsibility for a comprehensive policy. I believe that a tougher meeting with the judiciary can be preventive for parts of the criminal environment. That is why we should, for example: See if the so-called atonement discounts work against its purpose. The possibility for the police to investigate suspicions, for example: after the use of weapons in certain threads, there may be a way to go. We should also consider whether it may be useful to amend the Child Protection Act. However, the most important thing is to prevent, reduce new recruitment and ensure a treatment provision and aftercare that works for first-time convicted people. That's why I believe that criminal custody is as important as more visible police in the streets. I would also like to add that I fully support the Oslo police offensive with a tougher line against fighting and unrest in Oslo streets, which was presented in the Evening Post evening number a short time ago. If we don't get visible results quickly, I fear an increasing number of violence episodes in the Oslo streets with a lightning mood and self-justice ahead, and we must avoid that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e913	On the basis of the proposal of the Bondevik government to put prisons in Vik and Kongsberg, I am pleased that a group of committees has opposed the closure of the prison in Vik. This is the only prison we have in Sogn and Fjordane, and it's a prison that everyone in my county has a relationship to. For us who come from the county, the House of Commons is identical to the prison in Vik. Therefore, I would like to take advantage of the need to point out that last year the Committee asked for a structure for our prison, and as long as the grounds are missing, one cannot just put down prison. But I understand that it is difficult for the department to find such a foundation for closure in Vik. The Committee has seen that there will be little economic gain with closure, as there will be a few increases in other police and prosecutorial expenditures with longer travel to other prisons. For visitors to the inserts it is also important to have short distances. For the prison in Vik – or for the ‘Vikjahuset’ – as we say, there are plans for expansion and modernisation at a reasonable price, and there are plans for education and competence enhancement for those added. In addition, there is a good supply before practical vocational training provided by the business community in Vik. For this reason, it is incomprehensible to me that the department will shut down the prison in Vik year after year without a good reason. Rarely is there a community that then fully accepts and works to keep its prison, just like Vik. For the Sogn and Fjords, it is also important to have a prison in order to provide for those who receive a punishment from society so that they have to go to prison in order to son.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e924	I actually want to say a few words at the end of this debate, and it bottoms up that this morning I sat and read the Evening Post. Then I was really angry – to put it straight: well cursed. And this is the article with reference to the chief of police in Tønsberg, about this Indian who has beaten his wife who has become both lame, blind and deaf and sits at an old-age home down in Tønsberg, and where the police demand that this rapist should not have such an offer as he now has, with a relative release after one year of prison. And when we can read this article – if it leads to correctness – that the Ministry of Justice actually says that the police must be wrong, then I get quite angry and despaired. Because we ordinary doctors have the impression that when you commit serious criminal acts, you must also be punished. And then it's no use that we judge a man to six years in prison when after one year he walks in the street next to the old man's home where he lives. That's not the point. I just wanted to express it at the very end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e929	The President recalls that it is not all words that are equally parliamentary. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e945	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 724]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e958	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e2414	President! I need a brief explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e2421	Kristin Halvorsen, for explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e2424	I would like to encourage SV's storage group to now vote for the setting. As far as I, II and III under B are concerned, you are an old SV proposal, for which I am very pleased that the committee is now setting a deadline. II and III are part of the reconciliation between the Centre Parties and the Advance Party and the Right. It can be interpreted in the direction of political leadership that SV initially disagrees with, but we do not want to underline the right turn further and vote for both II and III. At the same time, I would like to say that we want to be free to evaluate carefully and properly what the method selection set up comes with, when it is to be dealt with in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e2432	That's okay. Then we are ready for voting on the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e4591	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e4607	Do we take full account of wage and employer policy into account when adopting reforms and setting a framework for the local and public sectors? I don't think we do that, and I'll try to justify it. On 5 November this year, the Labour Inspectorate went to work on all the country's nursing home, and they found a lot to put their finger on. Heavy lifting is a problem that creates many evil backs, damaged shoulders and high sick leave. In many of the hospitals, there was no guarantee that the employees would receive help from a colleague in situations where it was required that there were two about the job. They were alone. Next year, they'll be even fewer. The nation on November 26 said that there were 25 000 help nurses out of the profession, and 70 pst. of those who were working, went to part-time jobs. In the action plan for better care for the elderly, a need of 12 000 new annual work is foreseen only within the care of the elderly for the next four years. The number has since been adjusted by the local authorities reporting needs, so that today the number is in excess of 13 000 new annual works. But can we recruit enough people? Does the youth view caring for the elderly as a good and forward-looking job? In October, Eastfold Central Hospital received the following irreconcilable orders from the County Councillor: 180 temporary posts must be removed – not converted into permanent posts, but removed – i.e. 10 medical positions, 75 nurse positions, 30 auxiliary positions, 11 bioengineering positions, 40 consultant positions and 14 other positions. There is no doubt that the jobs are needed, but the money is missing. The number of patients treated will, of course, decrease, and waiting lists will increase. So we need more, and not less! During 1999–2006, the Government expects that there will be a need for 9,275 different mental health protection jobs. The large-scale effort on psychiatry around the country has political support from all parties, but the lack of staff can hinder implementation. Recruitment and training of professionals will be a decisive step for years to come. Do we take these grips? So another description of reality. On 12 March 1998 there was no ordinary day. Then there was an interpellation debate in Stortinget, and that's not so unusual, but that day everyone thought the teachers were earning too little. If the salary is not good enough, the students will choose away the teacher's education, the interpellant Uppebøen Hansen from the Workers' Party to Norsk Skoleblad the next day. And the Minister of Education said he realized that Stortinget had given a clear signal that the teachers deserve a higher salary, and that it was to be passed on. It was also done, it was actually brought to reality by the national broker. These are some pictures from reality, and that's the background. At the same time, we have a tight labour market. The working conditions in several sectors of the private sector are very different from those in the public sector. They may have very high wages, benefits, options and great opportunities for continuing training and professional input via the job. Well-educated people can now choose, and many of them choose the public sector. We all agree on the major health reforms, in psychiatry, for the elderly and in school, and we are increasingly demanding better quality services. But do we take the consequences of it having to be followed up in many areas, with better economy and legislation, if this is to be done? We do not have direct responsibilities for employers, but we are responsible for the overall pay and employer conditions that can be offered in the public sector. We make the premise for the employer’s policy, which is carried out in both the state and municipal sectors. In the case of legislative decisions, they shall apply to all of them. In a wide range of areas, such as the working environment, gender equality and welfare systems, trade unions have moved ahead and fought through rights, and governments have failed to comply with legislation. One example of an equality issue that remains, which we mean means something to be able to recruit, is equality between turn and shift. I know the government is working on that, but it's still the way we send out this bad signal, when we're in an almost desperate situation and need more people who can work with care and care. This year’s paycheck was good, including for public sector employees – and it was just supposed to be missing! Income to owners of capital has increased and settlement in the private sector has improved. If settlement in the public sector were to deteriorate, the public sector would have fallen completely off the pay line. And at the same time that one is to carry out all these reforms that require competence, skilled professionals, commitment and commitment, one could not end up with a much worse pay settlement in the public sector. With regard to these jobs we are talking about – whether you are a teacher or an assistant at a nursing home or you work in the psychiatry – everyone knows that they are very demanding both physically and mentally. So we can no longer bet on just the spirit of good and cold when we're going to implement our reforms, or believe that we're going to be able to renew and strengthen the welfare state of a modern welfare state without thinking about it completely and taking responsibility for it being possible through the framework decisions we're making. It has not been common to compensate for collective agreements concluded in addition to those contained in the Community economicproposition, the Council of State said in a reply as to why the year’s wage settlement was not compensated in the draft budget. Not even the increase in the part of the settlement that the government had negotiated for the teachers was compensated. I also do not believe that it is right to compensate for kroner. That method does not work, but I do miss a general view of how to deal with this. This is politics and not engineering. If we want services in the public sector to be good, quality and adequate, we need to make sure that it becomes attractive to work in the public sector, and that proper pay and employment conditions in the public sector are not to be sold out with cuts in services or provide poor services, as it is now. The view of this must go hand in hand with the frames we put. It is not the Stortinget or the Government that will decide what kind of pay people should have, but we need to set a framework that allows for a wage and employer policy that can work in a modern society. Now the responsibility for a necessary and correct payroll settlement has been dropped down to the municipalities, which have to cut services and require more self-payment. There's bad signals, and there's bad services, and I don't think we're reaching our targets in any of the areas. It's actually so that in many places the manning is at best marginal already now. It gives heavy loads, for example. in the care of the elderly, less to share the burden with, and we get more and less bad backs. It is a paradox that a reinforced commitment to the reforms that we all agree on is not followed up with enough instruments that we know will work. If good wages and opportunities for professional updating and adequate staffing work in the private sector – and we know that they do, everyone argues that these are market mechanisms that work – why do we not think it necessary to do so in the public sector? What other groups in the private sector are referred to as market adaptations is called a pay spiral in the public sector and thus receives a negative stamp. One won't benefit from low pay and a lot of shit! There are too many in the public sector now. One does not automatically benefit from good pay either, sail if someone seems to think there is a clear link between skill and pay. But pay is a signal of how the job you do is valued. And one gets better by being appreciated, by being taken seriously and not taken for granted. Competition between municipalities and between municipalities and the state of individual groups is now strong. As we know, the purchasing power is very different between municipalities. And there won't be any more doctors or teachers that one municipality can afford better than another, and through it can buy the labour it needs. The last piece that I just get the time to get in, is the education bit. Especially on the care side, this becomes important, because we know that the recruitment of assistants/care professionals is now very weak. And it's essentially pay-and-work that makes these poor recruits. You don't see in the future, you know that you get worn out, you know that you have to go heavy guard, and that the jobs are exposed, insecure and weary. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State: are we going to have a different policy in this area in the future, or are we going to keep saying that this is not really our table, we are going to leave it to the KS or to the social partners, or are we going to increase our overall responsibility for these areas so that we can implement our policy, not just to implement the reforms, but also to keep and recruit the best people to these important jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e4652	In the light of key reforms adopted in recent years, the representative, Karin Andersen, points out that a reform also requires framework conditions that allow for the implementation of the reform. There's a central issue here the representative is drawing up. It does not help if the intentions are never so good if the needs, access and possible solutions in terms of staff and competence have not been taken into account. Similarly, it is important that a good job is done in assessing the economic impact and the financial framework. Access to qualified personnel is a central aspect of most reforms, and lack of professionals is an acute problem in many municipalities. In May this year the government issued a big message on the competence reform, St. ermeld. No 42 for 1997-98. The priority areas discussed there will form the basis for a national action plan on skills development and adult training, including: meeting skills needs in relation to new reforms in the local government sector. Not least in health and social services, we find many comprehensive reforms and action plans. Examples include the escalation plan for mental health, the action plan for care for the elderly, the national cancer plan and the permanent reform. As the human resources side is so important for the success of these different action plans, the plans also contain different actions in the areas of basic education, further training and empowerment. Education capacity in health and social education is also continuously assessed by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in cooperation with the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. It should also be mentioned that the Ministry of Social Affairs has drawn up an action plan for health and social workers 1998-2001, entitled ‘Just person in place’, and this document shows the breadth of this department’s work in the field of human resources. Creating a balance between supply and demand in the labour market is often difficult even with thorough planning and cooperation between the different authorities. For example, the result of a good labour market is that some job vacancies are difficult to fill. That demand for e.g. Nurses and doctors have been bigger than the offer, including: coherence with generally good economic growth, the clear twist between professional prostheses towards greater needs for more specialised staff, and demographic changes. In the short term, there is no possibility of solving this by increasing educational capacity. The Employment Act has therefore put in place special work for recruiting staff from abroad, in the first row of nurses and the second row of doctors through its own medical recruitment project. The so-called medical recruitment project recruits doctors from Germany, Austria and France, both for hospitals and for community health services. It should also be mentioned that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health supports recruitment and training measures against foreign doctors. Another issue with regard to recruitment is that of all the small municipalities and municipalities that we see having problems recruiting and keeping qualified personnel. It is limited how much it helps to increase educational capacity if this greatly leads to over-establishment in key areas. The challenge, therefore, is not only to provide a sufficient number of qualified personnel on a national basis but also to develop tools to help all municipalities in the country benefit from this human resources. In the case of activities in which municipalities and county councils are responsible for employers, it is the responsibility of the individual municipality or county council to pursue an employer policy adapted to the challenges of the individual reforms. In the municipal and county tariff areas, collective agreements are negotiated through the central federation of municipalities and the municipality of Oslo respectively. In the State, the overall responsibilities of employers and the tariff negotiations of the Ministry of Labour and Administration are taken into account. It is the State Human Resources Director who, through the powers of the Government, negotiates in the State tariff area, including the School. Both at the central tariff negotiations in the country and at the local negotiations within the individual scope, consideration is given to the ability to recruit and maintain qualified labour as an overall objective. In this respect, it can be mentioned that, at the year’s tariff settlement, pay increases for teachers were particularly prioritised. The reforms to which the representative refers mainly affect service production at municipal and county level. As everyone here knows, the annual overall income framework for the local government sector is determined in the context of the State budget. The size of the income frameworks will be, inter alia: established on the basis of demographic changes and proposals for new initiatives. At the same time, the local government sector is an important part of the Norwegian economy, so that the income framework of the sector needs to be adapted to a sound fiscal framework. Increased efforts in national areas of activity therefore also require re-priorities and more efficient use of resources in the municipal sector. The implementation of new reforms requires adjustments both on the economic and personnel sides. In most cases, more than one level of administration and one discipline are concerned. In addition, there are strong requirements for coordination both within and between administrative levels. All of this is a matter for which the Government is most concerned with reform.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e4678	It was not much it was possible to disagree in the articles of the Council of State. It was nothing special to put my finger on, but what I miss is an answer to whether you think it is necessary to take a new grip to get a better grip on this. Because it is a reality that, in the municipal sector, good enough pay and employment are not now in a position to be attractive enough for people to endure a long working life in jobs that we consider to be extremely important and that, I believe, the Council of State and I agree on the best – and preferably – to be carried out by the public sector, because it is important that these are Community services. I fear – and I think clearly see the outlines of – that when the reform is adopted, several of the overall ideas that we base are being negotiated when we arrive at the budgetary procedure, and we are about to begin to balance. It is not then possible to hold on to what is known, namely the need to invest both in the economy so that staffing becomes sufficient, and enough money so that it is possible to implement a wage and employer policy that follows the intentions of the reforms. It is true that it is not we who are engaged in the direct negotiations, but that the state and the local authorities through their bodies have a maritime and strong responsibility for this. But they give us clear signals about where the shoe is pressing, and I have no sense that those signals are being heard and taken seriously. Instead, every year you shift responsibility down the system and say, "Collect this as well as you can." And there are huge problems now very many places. So the Council of State said that most of the issues I had raised were about service production. That is true, but there are also problems in some other areas. There is a need for well-qualified and trained professionals in the municipal sector in very many areas, and in the public sector in the departments, for example. We have difficulties in recruiting and maintaining all over the line, and for many of these jobs, there is a competitive situation in relation to private business that is different from the school sector and fortunately also in the health sector, as long as we are able to keep most of the health sector in the public sector. The competitive situation we face in this area means that many municipalities are now losing municipal engineers, people who are going to run environmental protection and technical services, and people who are going to run a good process, so that people get the services they need. So this is true in a lot of areas that are not directly related to the heavy reforms I mentioned, but that are very necessary for the public sector and the municipal sector to function in such a way that people are satisfied and get the services they want.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e4687	The representative Karin Andersen takes on board a number of reforms adopted by the Stortinget, which the local government sector is responsible for implementing and following up. The question raised is the extent to which the Government, and hence the State, is required to introduce human resources and wage policy into the reform processes adopted. In recent years, the size of the population has adopted a number of reforms, particularly in the areas of education, health and care. These are important and necessary reforms to ensure and further develop our well-functioning welfare society. I agree that questions can be asked about whether the pace of reform has adapted to the availability of qualified personnel. But if we take care of the health and care sector, we see that we have more trained doctors and nurses per. For example, 1 000 inhabitants than you have. in Sweden and Denmark. Higher education capacity is significantly higher in Norway than in Sweden. What, then, is creating the problems of recruiting enough professionals in the areas of reform? One of the challenges facing Norway is that we have chosen to maintain the main features of the housing pattern. This is good, but it costs, and we have to be willing to bear these costs. We might also have to be willing to ask critical questions about the education structure, if we, for example, are going to do so. adequately align education with the needs of society. If the need for e.g. Nurses are 30,000 in order to carry out the older reform and the psychiatry reform — yes, we need to turn the educational capacity in that direction to meet those needs. The Workers' Party proposed and adopted, during the examination of the financial situation, the appointment of a State Modernisation Committee with a mandate to propose changes in the structure of the public sector in order to ensure more economie and human resources for elderly care, health, education and research. The Municipal Committee shall examine a Document No: 8 proposals promoted by Right-wing Representatives, which raise the same issues in many ways and which aim to improve efficiency and simplify at the different levels of government. In its budgetary position, the Committee also asked the Government to assess the exemption of some municipalities, with the same starting point and for the same purpose. Thus, the Storting has shown initiative and addressed many of the challenges that the representative Karin Andersen is facing. The answer is not necessarily one-sided to increase transfers to municipalities — the answer is likely to be more in the direction of a critical review of how public sector resources can be used more efficiently. The interpellant also addresses issues related to a comprehensive wage policy. However, I am confident that the social partners will at all times make the necessary adjustments to meet the challenges that the representative here addresses. I would therefore like to warn against government placing leadership in pay issues that bind the social partners and deprive them of their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e4702	Interpellant also said that in most areas, and not least in the private sector, this works reasonably well by providing workers with better pay and the possibility of continuing training. But it doesn't work in the public sector. Is it a good idea to just transfer even more money to the municipalities to get it to? I think that if we're going to be able to solve this, one of the things that Odd Eriksen had to do is start to think again: what does one do in the private sector that one does not do in the public sector? It is also a fact that in the public sector we have some sort of monopoly situation when it comes to employers' side. This means that there is no competition between skilled workers in the same way as in the private sector. That is why I believe that the monopoly needs to be broken up in some way. By stimulating public service production, I believe that there will be some of the same market there as in private service production. By doing e.g. Hospitals and hospitals turn into foundations, often in public ownership, but also in private ownership, will provide a few for a competition between the desired workforce, and thus such things as wages, working conditions, the possibility of continuing education and training at once will be things that one could put on the table. If one does as the Progress Party has said, if the State has the financial responsibility for the health, care and education services and implements it by means of price financing, so that these foundations, these hospitals, are provided with funds from a production of services, then one could enter into such a system of possibility of competition on the market in order to obtain experts with the qualifications we are looking for. I agree with the interpellant that it is desirable to have well-qualified personnel in these areas, and that we should have the best possible service production. But I don't think just improving an old system that hasn't been shown to give the desired results is the way to go. I think the way to go is to start thinking about new things – to be willing, as I actually experienced the National Meeting of the Labour Party, to think about new things in the municipal sector and in ways of running the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e4711	The interpellant takes on the many reforms and asks whether we should have a more comprehensive wage and staff policy initiated by the state. I have heard more and more questions from Kommune-Norway if we should perhaps have a reform stop now. I believe what we from the central team have to do first and foremost is to ensure a proper economy and proper plans for access to personnel when we adopt reforms, and we must continue to do so. We live in a modern society, in a welfare society, which needs reforms. In the case of staff and wage policy, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the municipalities must retain responsibility. It is they who are closest to the workers, it is they who must conduct and develop the wage and staff policy – and take responsibility for it. In the KS, there has been a debate on wage and staff policy in recent years, among other things. with a view to using some of the instruments pointed to by the interpellant, e.g.: to base the pay system on an individual assessment. I think it's an important debate that the municipalities have to continue, whether it's an individual-based wage policy or a solidarity wage policy, where everyone gets paid regardless of the measure of effort and knowledge. Municipalities and county councils provide many services in our welfare community, and services are increasing. Hospitals operate and treat more people who are ill today than ever before. Nevertheless, it is necessary that both municipalities and county municipalities are willing to rethink within their institutions and are willing to reorganise. As you've discussed before, we have a lot of nurses, and we have a lot of doctors, but it's not certain that these do the right things all the time. It is important that the municipalities are able to think new things, do new things and complete some of the old tasks. But there is also a conservative attitude in many municipalities to end up with old things that may not be necessary municipal tasks anymore in our modern welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e4724	At the beginning of the 1990s, the largest unemployment rates consisted of highly educated people, by engineers, by professionals in industry, of groups which had their usual private sector activity. The queues of the higher education institutions, such as for teacher training and nurse training, were long. The quality requirements, the character requirements, for entry were high. In the last two years we have had a tight labour market, where enough public sector in some areas has experienced competition from the private sector. But there is a difference between what is offered in the public sector and the private sector. There are some things in the public sector that you don't have in the private sector. Most of those working in the private sector have much greater job insecurity, and a lot of people experience it, for example. not to have an automatic statutory pension scheme. And then we want economic inequalities, which makes the results different when competition comes. I do not think we need an overall government wage and employer policy, at least not by Stortinget. The whole starting point for the interpellant is that we have a greater responsibility for the public sector than we have for the private sector. As elected to the Norwegian economy, I do not feel as a participant in a public sector user board, but as responsible for how Norway as a whole is going to develop. In that case, it is not possible to assume that it is unfortunate that at some point we experience that the private sector is offering more, when we have just a long period of time when the private sector has actually offered less. This does not mean that there are no employers' challenges in the public sector. However, with regard to municipal responsibilities, it should remain municipal, and there should be a greater municipal responsibility in the sense that teachers should also negotiate with the municipal sector and not with the state. In implementing major new reforms, the primary task of the State in the field of employers will be to ensure what we are responsible for, namely the education system, to ensure that there are enough training places and that it recruits professionals for what is needed. The right has given priority to each budget for the whole of the 1990s, among other things. more resources for higher education and the creation of more training places, including more than possibly focus on short-term labour market measures. The assumption that we have a greater responsibility for the public sector than we have for the private sector, I cannot agree. I think it's important that we have an overall responsibility for balance in the economy. That's where the whole discussion about framework and development comes in, and I don't think SV responds with any grip on the whole and the balance.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e4739	I am of those who are optimistic about the question of whether the local government sector is able to obtain enough and good labour in the future. But, of course, it depends on us at Stortinget. I'm optimistic because the municipal sector provides a variety of tasks that people find meaningful, because people with different backgrounds are needed – and there's something about job security. I'm optimistic because the municipal sector is so important. We have to succeed in providing enough labour for the sector that solves so important tasks. Then I think the municipalities will also be employed because people are looking positively at the municipalities and at what the municipalities are doing. Then it's important that the municipalities don't lose confidence among the population, that we don't do anything that makes them lose confidence. I can mention as an example the new building law. When people wait pointlessly for a long time for something that would give an improvement, as we have said, to be an improvement, but with which the municipalities are striving, it seems in the wrong direction. Municipalities will be given new tasks in the future. If they're going to solve them properly and reasonably enough, they need a basis for positive conversion. The employees have to be involved in this. I think we need to assess the pace of reform in the future in relation to financial capacity and will, but also in relation to the picture we see, whether those who are going to do the jobs are doing things to follow and change. I am also of those who think that competition for labour is good. Human resources can never be valued high enough, and high unemployment is the worst. It's good for municipalities like employers that it's demanding to be an employer, and I think it's going to always find labour for the interesting jobs where people thrive. What is the challenge for municipalities is to provide a good enough working environment to eliminate diseases and make people thrive. Of course, pay levels and continuing training have a lot to say. Competition for labour is good on the one hand. If this leads to instability, too much penetration, it is not good – not least for example. the elderly if home help is changed too often. And it's precious. We put the framework for municipalities, how they can be good employers, through financial frameworks, through predictability, through freedom to find good solutions. New grip calls for SV. I think we should have had a major new reform with the title Free and Responsible Municipalities. We need to achieve less detailed management through laws and regulations by providing less earmarking and bureaucracy that requires reporting and action plans, and we need to gain less control and review from statesmen and other small kings. Then I think we should get a agreed financial framework, where the municipalities should also be able to reserve themselves against tasks that they do not see doing within the framework offered.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e4756	Before this interpellation, I basically asked myself the question: Could we get something special new today on this topic? Would we see a minister who showed new tactics when it comes to structural changes in society? Would we have an interpellant that was willing to make changes to achieve its objectives? It's hard for us to go against the high-ranking, well-meaning plan documents, but to the seventh and last, this ends up in a matter of resources. That's what the interpellant also mouths into. We're being asked for new grips, but we can return that question to the interpellant. Is there a willingness to join in some new grip on reprioritizing resources, so that we can achieve what we want? It is shown to the local engineers who are too few, who may not be qualified enough, or who are dragged into another job. It is pointed out that there are no case handlers missing to keep the process pace. Are we, then, willing to look at structural changes in this society and perhaps look at a municipality that can be more efficient, where one can better solve its citizens' questions without access to additional resources in the form of Norwegian krones opened up to the municipal sector? It's essentially where it ends up. It's clear that we've all made a positive statement, for example. on teachers, who were brought up here, who needed a paycheck. But when we see people who trust the TV teachers by day, pointing to the Norwegian map, it's not an absolute quality of teaching that gives birth. Then the teacher has become a politician. He has in a way taken our role far away, entered into the press groups' arenas and fought on one side in a matter that might not have been so much done by him. It is not obvious that the number of schools in this country is the right number when it comes to the quality of teaching. The municipality structure may not be the answer. The middle management level may not be required. It needs a real sense of crisis to make a real change to this. The days before today have been marked by crisis maximisation, but understanding the crisis will mean that one stops prioritizing the tool and turns to prioritizing the content of the issues. Right-wing proposals for rationalisation in the transport sector, the Post Office, partially respond to the demand for access to staff in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e4766	The last post I thought was very interesting, because it was political. In my post, I said this is about politics, and that's what it does. The representative, Mr Hoddevik, was in charge of who is in charge of politics and who is in charge of the agenda. He pointed to the teachers, the teachers point to the Norway Map and say what's important. Yes, they do, but there are certainly other groups that act politically in today's Norway. They're currency speculators. These are stock exchange speculators. There are strong organised interests that also give strong leadership in how the distribution takes place in society. Mr Hoddevik said that there must be a sense of crisis, and I fully agree with that. But I see, then, that the crisis is not in the speculators' wallets, but in the municipal sector, at home, in school and in hospitals. That's where there's a crisis, that's where we need to do something, and they need resources. Yes, I'd like to be on a re-priority. I'm willing to re-prioritize in the public sector. I see there's a lot that can be done there. But what is important is now to re-prioritize between the private and the public that enables us to achieve the reforms we want. In recent years, the government’s share of GDP has been significantly reduced, not in dollars and cents, but in total. The percentage has gone down from over 50 until it's now down to approx. 44 pst. There are huge sums, while we want to do more. So it's this one that's not related. That's why I think the article from Hoddevik was one of the most interesting things, because it points to the political dividing lines here, which I think are now in the process of leading us into a lunatic, precisely because it's the right-hand side with its views that now have the hand on the wheel and that governs the policy. Those who are involved in implementing a budget now are unable to say that OK, when we can't give you more money, you won't be able to do these things. You can't do that. Instead you say, you're going to do these things, but at the same time you're going to get a lot less money. That's when we come up in such difficult situations as what I've been trying to point out. We must be careful so that the municipalities do not lose their trust, said Morten Lund, and I fully agree with that. But then we have to be very aware of who it is that gets the hang when home help can't come when it's going, when school isn't good enough, when patients get expelled from hospital before they're finished. It's basically not us. It's the nurse, it's the teacher, it's the home help and it's people down in the municipal sector who get the hang of it. We have to create jobs where people thrive, said Morten Lund. Yes, we must. And it's not just about pay. It is about the municipalities having enough money to have so many jobs that it is possible to endure a job until you reach retirement age. We're not there now. Crisis awareness must exist, but the crisis is neither on the stock exchange nor with the private capital owners.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e4773	I think it has been an interesting debate, in the sense that I think there have been some points of view on which I perceive that there is a relatively broad consensus. Firstly, it has been pointed out that a critical review of the entire resource situation and access is necessary. There have been several mentions here. I think that's right. Secondly, it has been pointed out that it is also necessary to have a critical review of the reform rate. I think that's also true. There has to be consistency between what we have of resources and the pace of implementation of reforms. I have understood that everyone agrees that it is necessary to see the relationship between what we are doing with new actions and what is required not only of resources but also of personnel, that there must be something in which there is coherence and balance, and that it is the responsibility of the state. I also understand that there is a consensus that, in terms of staff and wage policy, the responsibility for the municipal sector has to be maritime, as we have today. I think it is necessary for the person responsible as an employer – and the local government sector will necessarily have to be responsible for its employees – to also be responsible for staff and salary policies. Then I can finally say that we are going to have a meeting in the government's contact committee for the next week, where, among other things. experience from the last payroll will be discussed. If it is necessary, if necessary, to make changes to the entire system we have in the context of negotiation and wage policy and the mediation institute, then one of the topics that will be discussed is precisely to get all the organisations’ views on it – just for information.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e4784	That is when the debate is on case No. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e4796	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e4809	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e4815	The vote will take place on the proposal from Mr Lodve Solholm, representative of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, and on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on 23 November 1998: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the Industrial Concession Act of 14 December 1917 No. 16, so as to allow exceptions for the concessional management of intercommunal companies by way of conversion into a limited liability company.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e4828	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-03.ana.ud1733e4849	There is no record.
