ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e44	The representative Ivar Østberg, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Uppland County: Kjell Ivar Fossnes. For South-Trundellag County: Bjørg Bruset and Michael Momyr. Mr Hagen announced that he would withdraw the granted permit application for days 23 and 24 November. This notice shall be taken into account. Two permit applications are available: by the Group of the European People's Party on sick leave of the representative Anita Apelthun Säle from Monday 23 November until further notice from the representative Dag Danielsen on leave on 23 and 24 November to attend the meeting of the Joint Parliamentary Delegation to the EFTA and EEA in Luxembourg These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the county of Hordaland, Kurt-Arne Langeland, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the representative Anita Apelthun Sæle's sickness permit from 23 November until further notice, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The following alternates are invited to meet during the period of leave:For the county of Hordaland: Kari SørheimFor Oslo: Sissel Dagslet.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e113	Kari Sørheim and Sissel Dagslet are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e118	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e123	I propose Ursula Evje and Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e128	Ursula Evje and Per Ove Width are proposed as presidents. Other proposals are not available, and Ursula Evje and Per Ove Width are unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget's meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e136	The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e140	On behalf of the representative Terje Knudsen and myself, I am promoting a proposal for a wide-ranging government-designated sample that will explore the entire value chain in the food market to get an overview of the price conditions and the possibilities for fairer food.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e145	: Representative Sverre J. Hoddevik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e148	On behalf of Ansgar Gabrielsen, Ivar Kristiansen and myself, I will make a proposal that includes: shall be opened for private fish testing.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e153	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e165	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Progress Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Socialist Left 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the People's Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e174	As rapporteur-in-Office of the Council of St. ermeld. No 32 for 1997-98, I will address some of the feedback provided by the Committee. The message is very comprehensive, with many fundamental issues, various issues and government assessments and conclusions, in other words, a big message with the possibility of too much debate and commitment and with an invitation to comprehensive feedback and comments. A more open public space, a more open society, is the objective, and the Committee is pleased that the Government is proposing changes to the Public Health Act that will lead to greater transparency. The principle of public disclosure is based on the view that public transparency in decision-making is a prerequisite for the good and democratic exercise of authority and management of community resources. It is a living democracy, where an important prerequisite is to be able to influence decisions. In order to influence a be aware that the case may be dealt with in order to provide for the possibility of correcting incorrect information to verify that the administration complies with procedural guidelines; Knowledge must come at a time when it is still possible to influence the development and outcome of the case, because when the case is decided – or the suspension promoted – influence will often have no effect. It's too late. It is important to remember that public employees, administration and bureaucracy are there to create the best possible society. They are there to serve the people, and public decisions are made on behalf of all the citizens of the country. Public attitudes play a major role in the practice. The Committee is pleased that the Government is committed to disseminating knowledge and raising awareness of the purpose and functioning of the Public Service Act and that measures will be put in place to ensure better compliance with the rules of the Public Service Act. Active information on the activities of the management is also important to underline. In this context, it is appropriate to recall that many struggle with the writing language, and that written information should be designed in a way that makes it available to the greatest possible extent in our society. It will be a quality improvement for all users. In order to optimise the practice of the principle of disclosure, the possibilities for identifying a document are of great importance. The Committee considers that the Public Service Act must provide for an obligation to keep a continuous record of the public sector as a whole. Without a record, it is very difficult to gain transparency in the activities of the body. Journaling must be done in a way that allows the identification of the document, as far as this can be done without disclosing information which is subject to professional secrecy or other exceptional rules. It is necessary to adapt the rules on record-keeping to technical progress, even in relation to the necessary limitations. Some of the Committee's particular concerns are privacy issues. In addition, where administrative documents and records are generally public and for appropriate reasons digitised, search facilities are provided. This must be taken into account in the choice of systems and the development of rules to prevent misuse of information via data. It is important both for public confidence and for the Public Health Act to serve its purpose: to make citizens actively involved in social issues. The majority of the Committee – the Working Party, the Christian People’s Party and the Center Party – supports the Government’s view that the Public Service Act should be as transparent and clear as possible and that the specific provisions on record-keeping should therefore not be included in the Public Service Act. The Committee considers it important to consider the introduction of a right of access to factual information in internal documents, which is now covered by the second paragraph of Section 5, and asks the Government to base it on further work on the disclosure law. A clear distinction between actual information and assessments allows a person to avoid taking time to find out what the facts are and what the assessment is. It can provide a better quality of treatment for those who want to take the facts into account when assessing cases. This is a problem that several people have indicated during the work we have had with the message. A desire has also been added that there should be a distinction between actual information and assessments in the media, on the grounds that there is often a lack of certainty about what is at the heart of the matter, and therefore feels inhibited in being able to participate in a debate on society. The Christian People's Party and the Central Party wanted to go a step further in the assessments to see if the transparency of actual information could be made more extensive. The Committee agrees with the Government that proposals for legislative changes need to be made in order to increase the transparency of municipalities. All settings – regardless of whether the recipient body is to decide on the case or simply to suspend it – must be public. The same applies to the attitude of elected bodies to other elected bodies. In addition, the Committee asks for an assessment as to whether a rule should be given that annexes to the suspension be made public in order to ensure that useful information and background material are also available. It is important to get the public debate ahead of the political treatment of a matter in the municipality. Equally important is the administrative presentation of the facts and assessments in order to give an overall picture of the case. Opinions of bodies with independent decision-making powers are given the various considerations on a case. Therefore, it is important that they are public. These are some of the feedback that the Committee gives, together with emphasis on a solution that is clear and reasonably easy to practice and common to all municipalities. The size and organs of the Storting have never been subject to the Public Service Act. Nor has there been a broad principle assessment of the scope of the principle of disclosure. Now is the time for both assessments and changes. It would look strange if we were to demand more of ourselves than of ourselves – for example, greater transparency in municipalities and county municipalities. The principle of publicity is so important to society, democracy, public debate and to trust and control that we too will be part of this, and lead by example. It is claimed that the Stortinget is already so open that it is unnecessary to do something more, but it is rather another good reason to introduce the principle of disclosure and to find the necessary exception rules for neat conditions. The Committee therefore calls for rules to be drawn up on the publicity of the bodies of Stortinget and Storting, including the Civil Ombudsman and the Riksrevisionen. In the case of candidate lists, some would feel that the Committee's comment is a step backwards because it opens up the possibility for individuals to make a reservation from the public on their own initiative. The Communication pointed to several points, both in favour of and against publication of candidate lists, without considering how the different considerations should be taken into account. This was probably the last joint comment – and it is appropriate to recall that the Left and SV do not have representatives in the Committee. As a conclusion, I would like to say that the legal work it adds to the message will necessarily take time. Pending the revision of the law, it is particularly important that management actively exploits the opportunities provided by the more general rules, so that more transparency and public transparency can be achieved even before legislative changes can take effect. Finally, I would recommend the Committee's recommendation for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e241	This message could have been presented by a work party government as well as by a center government. Once again, we can see that the central parties in government act differently than they did in opposition – from swinging the flag high, reality became a blush in the wind. The Communication focuses on issues raised by day-to-day management and public debate. It is worth noting that the discussions in the communication include the follow-up to several legislative proposals submitted by the Stortinget to the Government – seven Document No. Eight proposals are referred to. Apart from the Government's proposal to repeal the exemption rule for State undertakings, the Workers' Party follows in all material respects the arrangements of the Government. The committee treatment bears the mark of a very large degree of consensus. The starting point for the Committee's consideration is greater transparency in administration, while emphasising the privacy aspect. The latter is not least required, in the light of the practices of parts of Media-Norway today, cf. the thought-provoking article by NRK's Hans Wilhelm Steinfeld in Dagbladet last Friday. In the practice of the Public Health Act, there are considerable differences between the different administrative bodies. There may be different practices between individual directorates and from department to department, and large differences between municipalities. For some bodies, a belief that closedness was the starting point was not openness. The Public Health Act clearly states: «Administrative documents shall be public in so far as no derogation has been granted by law or by law.» The law has clear rules of exception – plus the 1993 revision of the law on public disclosure, which states: ‘The management body shall assess whether the document should nevertheless be made available in full or in part, even if it may be exempted from publication under the provisions of the law.’;» One would therefore think that the law in itself was good enough. These include: the practice and understanding of the law which now makes amendments and clarifications necessary. If the principle of extra-publicity had worked after the intention, it would not be equally necessary to have a law audit. The media play a central role in relation to the Public Health Act. There is no doubt that strengthening transparency is a strengthening of democracy and democratic control over governance. Increased transparency gives the media greater opportunity to inform about the activities of the administration and to address critical issues, which in turn helps to provide better insights into the activities of the public. In this work, however, the boundaries between when the media are working to provide the public with the necessary information and when they are working with pure self-interest are floating. Sensation redundancies and sales redundancies, in which facts are best circumvented in an easy-to-use manner and where privacy is compromised, can quickly take over. I think it'll be very useful and important that the media even now put the searchlight on this. It will also mean a great deal for the overall interaction between the media, management actors and politicians. In respect of the exercise of the rights of individuals, a failure to observe the transparency of the parties to a case must be guaranteed by the Administrative Act. The large consensus makes it unnecessary to go into all the areas mentioned in the notification in detail, but certain fields I would like to get closer to. Public relations with the public have been low in the public debate. This is, of course, due to the fact that the Storting business today is largely characterised by transparency and transparency. The previous enlargement gave clear indications that the principle of disclosure in relation to the bodies of Storting should be reviewed in the examination of this notification. An overall committee is of the opinion that there is no general need to exempt the Storing and its organs from the principle of publicity, and therefore asks the Presidency of the Storing to carry out the necessary review. The Committee is quite clear that enquiries by individuals must be protected against public access. The same applies to the correspondence and activities of the batches and individual representatives. In practice, the Ombudsman shall comply with the disclosure law as far as it is compatible with the obligation of professional secrecy laid down by law, regulation or administrative action, which the Committee is satisfied with. For the Court of Auditors’ public relations, a careful review of the audit’s own wish to provide a basis for the possibility of deferred disclosure on matters for consideration is necessary. The Committee’s position discusses this desire – in favour and against. For the Labour Party, I would like to point out the unfortunate fact that a matter that is still under review may be the subject of a public debate at the wrong time and on failing premises. One of the most difficult areas for an overview of the application of the disclosure law is the publicly owned companies and the establishments in which the public holds holdings. There is a conglomerate of companies and corporate forms. An important principle is that the organisational form itself should not be able to influence or be decisive for the right of access. With regard to the relationship between an enterprise and the Public Service Act, several elements need to be considered: the size of the public holding, whether the business is engaged in administrative and/or business activities, whether it is in a competitive situation, or whether the business is in a monopoly position. A good starting point for granting exemptions from the disclosure rules is in the conduct of business and competitive activities. The Workers' Party agrees with the Government that a careful review and consultation is necessary before any specific rules are proposed. It is important to strive for as simple a rule as possible. We disagree with the proposed repeal of the exemption from the disclosure law in the State Enterprise Act. That is why I am pleased that the Workers' Party, together with the Progress Party, has a majority in favour of this issue being consulted as part of the overall issue. Otherwise, the Workers' Party supports the Government that the positive decisions of SND and NORFUND regarding aid applications should be public. The relationship between internal documents is dealt with in particular, and in particular the exemption rules for documents drawn up by other than the body itself, i.e.: what is referred to in the second paragraph of Section 5 of the Public Health Act. An overall committee agrees that a careful review of the second paragraph of Section 5 is being carried out with a view to increasing public transparency and that no proposals for amendments are made before consultations have taken place. When the Committee now asks the Government to consider whether to introduce a right of access to factual information, it is necessary to emphasise how this can be implemented in practice. Furthermore, one must pay particular attention to what is to be regarded as actual information. This is not unproblematic, and especially the relationship to privacy can be more difficult than many imagine. There is also a need for assessments and consultations on document publicity in municipalities. In particular, KS and the municipalities themselves are important hearing bodies. However, the starting point is clear: the right of access to municipal documents must be equal to that of state administrative bodies. Communication with foreign countries and international organisations is also an important theme of the Communication. Increasing internationalisation increases the need for transparency. This is particularly important in matters of direct relevance to Norwegian legislative development. In its analysis, the Bondevik Government emphasises the fact that a large part of international work is concerned with different types of negotiations. This interaction with other countries imposes specific confidentiality requirements. It is therefore essential that the follow-up at national level be carried out in a manner that provides confidence in the other countries involved. However, the restrictions imposed on the publication of documents and information must not result in the exemption rules in Section 6 being more extensive than is really necessary. In this area, too, the proposed proposals need to be examined and sent to the hearing before legislative changes can be made. Public access to candidate lists is also discussed in the Communication. The Committee proposes that today's practice be streamlined, by allowing individuals to make their own personal reservation from the public on their own initiative – as the rapporteur also pointed out. The current rule for the publication of candidate lists may have the effect of excluding some potential candidates for public positions. This may hamper the recruitment of important public sector posts and therefore a tightening is necessary. In the case of employment, it is important to point to the right of access by the applicants themselves. Finally, I would like to remind you of the rule in Section 2 of the Public Relations Act on extra-publicity, which states that it is necessary to assess whether a document can be published in whole or in part even if the document can initially be exempted from publication. In reality, this is an obligation for the administration to assess more publicity. Administrative staff must be given a priority task of strengthening their position on the principle of disclosure and the knowledge of the Public Service Act. It is absolutely necessary to provide for procedural procedures whereby more publicity is effectively assessed. The government has a special responsibility here. The legislative work set out in the Communication and the leadership of the Committee will necessarily take some time. In the period leading up to the adoption of the statutory audit, particular attention must be paid to the fact that more publicity is really being practised. This is something that an overall committee emphasizes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e327	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e330	The SV will continue to have transparency about the candidate lists of public positions, not least in order to ensure equality. In the closed processes there will always be forces that keep women down, especially when women aspire to top management jobs. With the widespread use of consulting firms, where the boys are on their networks, it is not least important to ensure the best possible transparency. For SV, transparency is important both for the ability of women to reach and to prevent employment on a political basis. I do not expect much concern from the Workers' Party lately. The Labour Party has a certain tradition here, to put it mildly, but I had therefore believed that the Workers' Party would take the grounds for equality policy seriously and really look at them. Or is it that the requirement for efficiency and concern that applicants from private businesses are hesitant to apply when the candidate lists are public, takes into account gender equality and that the right women are recruited? I heard the reason why the parties can control. But I would like to remind you that, on behalf of the Community, the staff of the administration are to manage the values and resources of the community, and that it is therefore important that the public be given the opportunity to check that the administration employs the most appropriate persons. So we believe that in many ways women will be the most suitable people, and that transparency promotes the employment of women.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e339	I based the position under the article, and I also pointed out that the main argument here is that we want everyone who can imagine a position in public to be able to apply. Today, there are some obstacles that make not everyone, based on the job they have today, feel that they can apply. In the case of equality, it has not been the intention of the Workers' Party to weaken it. The thing with party vision I feel is a very real argument, and I assume that all women, like all men, have the same right to party transparency. Well, that's for sure. With regard to recruitment, I feel that it is also important that we get the best possible recruitment for public sector jobs. But when that is said, it is clear – as the rapporteur also pointed out – that this was one of the points that we discussed very much in the committee. Here there were arguments for and against, and we landed as we did. As a conclusion, I feel that this is right, as the transparency that the individual has today will mean a lot in such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e346	The Workers' Party representative, Rasmussen, began his speech by saying that this message could as well have been submitted by a workers' party government. I allow myself to doubt it most strongly. If they had made as good a message as what the Government has done, I would have seen it as a good break for the Workers' Party tradition in these areas. In any case, the Labour Party had two years to prove that they could have provided an equally good message. It went over two years from Stortinget explicitly asked for a big message on these questions, until the government of Jagland left. You didn't use the two years to prove that you could do as good a job as the government that's sitting on it spent half a year proving it could do. I also allow myself to quote from an interview with Prime Minister Thorbjørn Jagland on March 6, 1997. The former Prime Minister, Jagland, was asked: ‘Are you going through the Public Relations Act with a view to creating more publicity?’ The answer was: ‘At least we go through the Public Relations Act.’ It's not exactly a quote that gives the impression of the offensive attitude to being in favour of greater publicity. I just get to say, as a general remark, that it has generally been difficult to perceive the Working Party in the Front Line in terms of greater transparency. And when it comes to the processing of the present message, the Committee setting just shows that the Workers' Party does not have the power to follow up the Government on all points: state enterprises, the second paragraph of Section 5, actual information, etc. I would therefore like to ask the representative to explain in more detail why the Workers' Party could have provided the same message.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e367	There were great expectations for the announcement from what the three government parties said before they joined the government, and the media actions have been quite unambiguous, namely that what was said before, and what really happened, did not agree. We've seen some cases from the departments that make it maybe necessary to lower the tabs a little bit, which I was in the introduction. That being said, I should like to justify the fact that we could present a message like this from the Workers' Party. First of all, we see the big consensus in the setting. That's one point. Second, we don't work in a vacuum. We know what the previous government was working on, and what was suggested. The message was about to be finished before the new government joined. Another point is that when we talk about the time you need, there's a red thread throughout the message. The current government also needs time to put some things into practice. This shows that these questions are not as simple as you thought at first. A review of the Public Health Act means, of course, a review to look at what to do to get more transparency, and that was of course what the former Prime Minister meant when he answered the question, that one goes through the Public Health Act point by point – also that one has to look extra carefully at which line to put on. So all in all, I'm on what I said, that this message could have been very well presented from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e378	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e382	There is a great deal of consensus in the Committee on Very Many Different Aspects in the Public Relations Act, but there is one point that I think it is sad that the Progress Party stood alone on, namely to provide a system where we can get compliance in practice with the many fine principles that we agree on in this Chamber. In reality, there is currently no body that is looking after and monitoring the enforcement of the Public Health Act in practice. The Progress Party has previously made proposals for the establishment of a Public Service Office and a Public Service Council following a kind of main model from the Consumer Ombudsman and the Market Council. The majority of the Committee, in the same way as the Government, says that the Civil Ombudsman is the body to take this into account – one can complain and have respect from the Civil Ombudsman, and it is then followed up. But in practice it doesn't help. The point of a public authority was that it was to be an instance that could be used to get a quick decision, while the documents that were being sought were still relevant in a debate – not to be supported by the civil ombudsman for half a year or a quarter of a year afterwards, but to have an agency that also has the legal power to provide publicity or to force the party as a secret stamp to go to a court to avoid the public order. We in the Progress Party believe that one of the most important changes that must be made to the disclosure law is to actively get someone who can make sure that the law is followed, that it is a council, a kind of court, which will first of all assess the reasons given for the omission of documents. If, after hearing the parties, the Board of Public Prosecutors says that something should be published, those who refuse must go to the ordinary courts, of course with suspensive effect. We believe that such an active public service agency and a wide-ranging public service council is the only practical way to avoid some documents being excluded from public disclosure, as unfortunately it is now almost routine in central government, to be on the safe side. Such an instance as a public authority would in reality be the only way to reverse it, so it is an exception to using secret stamping, rather than now, where there are many times the impression that it is normal. In this context, constitutional questions are also mentioned by the majority and the Government. It would have been very interesting if the Government or the majority could identify the constitutional issues that would prevent a public authority and a public council. I have mentioned, and it was mentioned in our Document No. Eight proposals, that of course it should be the courts which ultimately have the power to rule. It is also today, my acquaintance. You can also go to the courts today to get it settled, but it's too late, it has no effect in practice. When, in my view, these two arguments – on constitutional issues on the one hand – are given by the majority, and on the other hand, the Civil Ombudsman covers this purpose by monitoring and ensuring compliance with the disclosure law – I would argue that none of these two arguments are really valid. They are, in my opinion, merely temporary from a majority who really do not want any particular change in practice, really do not want anything much more publicity than what is today. I think it is sad that, after such a broad message, we have no longer come up with the crucial point, namely that the law should be followed in practice. This is done in too few areas today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e395	I also noticed the Workers' Party's main speaker's claim that this message might as well have been promoted by a previous government, and notes, like a former representative, that it is possible it could have been, but it was not. So I think there's reason to give the Minister of Justice credit for finally getting the message in place, and I think the Minister of Justice can live with the representative Hove expressing himself in such a way that it seems that he interprets the requirement of block independence to such an extent that he almost regrets it when the Government gets the support of the other parties in this Chamber. Like the previous speakers, I would like to stress the broad consensus on the communication, and I refer to both the rapporteur's statement and the statements made later. The basic considerations set out in the Communication bring together, as I said, broad support. Something else would also be lacking, as government publicity must be said to be a necessary prerequisite for a democratic society. Legal certainty, democracy, control considerations, trust, legitimacy and dissemination of knowledge about decision-making processes may be a key element in this context. The concept of so-called fundamental social interests is often used to exempt from public disclosure, often linked to requirements for effective decision-making and privacy considerations. With a certain exception to privacy, these other considerations should in general hardly be used as an excuse for secrecy in a modern, democratic and open society. This leads to an important premise that today’s public awareness statement is followed in practice in the daily management. I would like to remind you that the administration is even obliged to assess more publicity, even when the law opens access to exemption from a public document. Unfortunately, until recently, the Government has shown several examples that it has either not understood or has not understood the principles of publicity. In particular, the secret letter of the Ministry of Social Affairs to the county officials of the country on 17 April of this year, not to mention the Ministry of Children's and Family Affairs' instructions to avoid public disclosure. In the Ministry of Fisheries, the visit programme of the Council of State itself had been stamped secret – for the sake of national security! As I said, this is a mentality that should belong to the past, but there is reason to recall the events – to terror and warning. I would like to remind you that there is a special basis for exempting a document from public disclosure. This applies to matters such as confidentiality-related information, security considerations, sensitive international circumstances or internal documents. Nevertheless, these considerations must not be interpreted more stringently than those which, according to a reasonable consideration, are the intention of the opt-outs. The size has not yet been subject to the disclosure rules of the Public Procurement Act, but the Basic Law § 84 has decided that meetings in Stortinget, Lagginget and Odelstinget as well as staging positions should be public. The right is satisfied with the introduction of a limited disclosure principle vis-à-vis the Storting, stressing that this is essentially a knack for the principle that has been in force in practice, and looks forward to the Presidency drawing up disclosure rules for the Storing and the bodies of the Storing. The same applies to the Presidency's assessments in relation to the Riksrevision and the Civil Ombudsman. Public disclosure law in relation to publicly owned companies has been given attention. There is a happy agreement to maintain the exemption from public disclosure for the Postbank and Norwegian typing A/S and that the positive decisions of SND and NORFUND should be public. A large majority agree that the form of organisation shall not in itself affect the right of access to public-owned activities and support the Government's efforts to submit proposals for a specific rule on public-sector practices, at the hearing prior to such preparation. It is important that the rules become clear and unambiguous, as this will obviously concern difficult demarcation issues. In any case, it may be natural that where the business is engaged in a combination of normal business and the exercise of powers, the disclosure law should apply to the part that is the exercise of authority. The right also supports the Government's proposal that the exemption from the disclosure rules for State undertakings be abolished and regrets that the majority of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party are opposed to this proposal. Journaling is an important prerequisite for transparency. I am pleased that a joint committee supports the Government's proposal for a collection of laws and rules on reporting in public enterprises. However, the Right, together with the Advance Party, does not agree with the Government that the design of the specific legislation is to be entrusted to the Government, but considers, on the contrary, that these rules have such an impact on public practice that the specific rules for record-keeping should be presented to the Government in an appropriate form. The development of new forms of communication also poses new problems in relation to journalism and privacy considerations. We must not create rules that become so square that they restrict the use of e-mails as internal communications, and it is particularly important that the Data Protection Authority is actively involved in the preparation of rules on journalism. I have noticed that the Norwegian Press Association has challenged both the Data Protection Agency and us politicians in this matter, and I think it is natural to express transparency in relation to this process. The goal of maximum transparency, combined with reasonable data protection considerations, may not have found its final balance, but in that case we should have the opportunity to come back to that as we gain more experience, both in the form of a constructive approach to greater transparency and more experience in electronic innovation. In my opinion, there should be no serious objection that the legislator is detained in this area. In the case of internal documents, the law allows today to exempt both works developed by the administrative body itself and works obtained from outside, such as: subordinate bodies, consultants, etc. The right is satisfied with the embellishment in these areas and with the final design of the legislative changes pending consultation of the proposals. The right is also satisfied that pure factual information is normally public, even if the document itself is exempt from public disclosure. With regard to the disclosure in the municipalities, the Right agrees that the right of access to the documents of the municipalities should be at least as broad as in the case of the documents of the state administrative bodies. However, municipalities are considered initially a unit and are therefore excluded for transparency, except for settings for political treatment in local government, county councils, presidencies or county councils. Right wants the Government to have an embellishment of the rule that the municipality is considered a single body, and that the Government wants the final decision settings to be public. We are also pleased that the Government will come back with legislative proposals after the proposals have been consulted, and ask the Government in particular to assess the issues associated with municipalities that have a parliamentary governance model. The issue of publication of candidate lists has received some attention, and this is the case in the communication where it can be said with a certain degree of justice that the Committee is making a certain amount of effort in relation to previous practices. The right considers that the consideration of potential applicants from private business to public positions is so important that individuals on their own initiative should be able to reserve themselves against disclosure. Of course, this consideration must be weighed against the considerations such as: The Norwegian Press Association points out, but, like the rest of the Committee, we stress the control effect of the rules on access to employment. In the case of a number of other cases in the message, the Right Government supports assessments. This applies, inter alia, to: the proposal to continue the practice of postal services to and from the political management of the departments and the Government's wish to propose greater transparency in relation to international organisations. The Government also points out that there is a distinction between the definition of ‘security interests’ in the Public and Security Act and the Right agrees that the same terminology should be incorporated. With a certain reservation in relation to record-keeping, as stated earlier, the Right also agrees with the Government that the rules of law relating to disclosure should be technology-neutral.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e427	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e430	I take the line mainly to avoid a misunderstanding, which would obviously be a misunderstanding, namely that I should have expressed a lack of joy over support at the points where the government gets support in the suspension. Of course, I am pleased with that support – and to stress that how I experience the setting goes Right further in supporting the Government than that, for example. The working party does. I'm happy about that, too. And to further express my joy, I am also pleased with the support of the representative Hernæs regarding my question as to whether it was certain that the Workers' Party could have delivered the same message. What I might have wanted was that the support from the opposition parties on some points had been somewhat more unreserved than the ratio in the setting. It is now said that the disclosure law is primarily the law of the opposition, in a kind of power balance against the Government, and what might be a little bit cautious in the setting that exists is that to the extent that the opposition reserves itself in relation to the Government, it is actually in the direction of being more careful. I'd like to be so open that I say that it wouldn't have been against me if we had had an opposition in this context that would have stressed the government a little bit in the direction of further publicity instead of the opposite. And that's why I can end up with some kind of issue that goes on why the Right does not support the government parties on the points in the vote where the representatives of the government parties go beyond what the majority of the committee does.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e437	I notice that the representative Hove is calling for opposition to the Government, but it is now such in this case that in most of the other cases we have dealt with in the Storting in recent times, that the Government finds plenty of opposition in its own supporting parties. The representative of the Hove stands for the opposition in this matter, not in relation to the Government's proposal, but in relation to the proposals that the governing parties in the Judicial Committee have come up with with the other parties, so the opposition will nevertheless be. Otherwise, there was so much joy in the line from the representative Hove that I see no particular reason not to participate in these pleasures. When the representative Hove says that he appreciates the support from the Right, that it even goes further than he feels that the support from certain other parties does, I must remind you that the Government of Bondevik is generally supported by the Right. It's just the problem that every time it gets this support, it expresses itself with great regret and says that it would really have the support of completely different teams. But if we can use this little line exchange in connection with this matter in a more general perspective, this can open up too much joy towards Christmas. To be completely honest with the rest of the line from Hove: He opened up saying that the purpose of the line was to express this joy, and then he clearly felt at the end of the line that he had to be most liable to ask a question, but to put it straight out I did not get what he really meant. And to the extent that I got hold of it, it was so insignificant in relation to what we stand for, that I find no reason to go any further than that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e446	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e449	Today, when the Storting deals with this attitude about the principle of public disclosure in the administration, it is a preliminary finish line for a case that has been subject to strong interest over a long period of time. There is every reason to give homage to the Ministry of Solid Political Crafts. The message is not, as someone had feared, a pure description of the situation today, it also clearly expresses on several points the Government's assessments and proposals for solutions. Transparency, transparency and access to public information are key prerequisites for living local democracy. Only through access to such knowledge will the public be able to participate in the societal debate. The Public Service Act lays down a principle that everyone has the right of access to the administrative file. The general rule is that the administrative documents are public in so far as no exceptions have been made to the law or to the law. The principle of public disclosure requires public administration to facilitate the maximum degree of transparency and transparency. The setting carries bids for a high degree of consensus. The case rapporteur has carried out a good review of the main features of the setting. I will therefore pay attention to some comments related to parts of the cancellation. Today, we experience that traditional paper exchange is replaced by electronic tools. It confronts us with major challenges, not least in relation to privacy issues. More information available does not in any way have to be negative in relation to privacy, rather vice versa. Better source access will undoubtedly make it easier to detect and correct incorrect and incomplete information. It has been stated on a number of occasions that there has been a need to assess the principle of publicity in relation to the bodies of the Storing. As others have experienced, there is reason to stress that the business of this house is today also characterised by openness and public transparency. In the Central Party, we are pleased that the Committee expresses the general need not to exempt the Storting from the principle of publicity. We also welcome the fact that the Government is supported by its proposal that the entire legislation on journals be applied to the municipal and county sectors and that the rules on record-keeping, such as the disclosure law and the archive directive, are brought together. With regard to the disclosure of documents in the municipalities, it should be noted that a unanimous committee agrees with the Government that the right of access to the documents of the municipalities must be equivalent to the right of access to the documents of the state administrative bodies. There is also every reason to believe that the public accepts the Government's proposal for changes to the law aimed at creating greater transparency in municipalities. There is no reason to be surprised that a unanimous committee supports the Government’s initiative to disseminate knowledge and ensure better compliance with public disclosure rules. In order to achieve credibility and trust, it is essential that information and knowledge on the purpose and functioning of the Public Service Act be provided.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e477	As many others have said here, public law is one of the pillars of our democracy. It shall ensure transparency for its citizens and is a prerequisite for an open and lively debate on the decisions to be taken. Transparency shall be required. It is not the authorities or the bureaucrats who, at their discretion, will decide what people deserve to know. It's the apparatus of power that serves to keep people out of debate, and that decisions are made in the closed rooms. We have seen it fully when really important decisions were to be made, for example. during the EU fight. And we've seen it recently, when the department tried to keep the debate on the MAI agreement away from those who might think to object. Business was informed of this, but not the public. Fortunately, the Internet makes it possible to obtain information, and thus more than just the power apparatus could participate in the debate on the MAI agreement. This shows the possibilities of the new technology. A local example: Ashkoy municipality's website contains the municipality's electronic postal records, and thus has many opportunities to see which documents flow in and out. There are opportunities, but also dilemmas, and we agree with the Committee that the relationship between IT and the public must be further explored on a principle basis. SV is for as much transparency as possible because we want a live debate before decisions are taken. We want most people to be able to participate in debates on the evolution of society, of community, of small and large issues, and then as many balances and disagreements as possible must be visible. We therefore agree that there should be a minimum of exceptions. For generous exceptional practices, public disclosure law has been one of Norway’s most broken laws. Another is the reluctance of bureaucracy towards transparency, which can be disruptive and demanding in a busy everyday life – reluctance and lack of knowledge. Therefore, schooling and updating of government employees is an important prerequisite for greater transparency. However, the main challenge is the need for efficiency and business-economic objectives that are becoming more common in the public sector. Head of the Freedom of Speech Commission, Francis Sejerstedt, has said this: ‘We see a tendency to tighten up private businesses that are spreading to the public. This is unfortunate fear of publicity that we must do something about." I see that the Storting will now do something about it, and I want to give Left credit for the pre-work done in ‘St.meld’. No 0» in 1997. Now it's about having the courage to want it a will. And then the question is, does the Storting have the courage? We in SV had wanted to be clearer leaders. But we recognize that this is a process, and that important questions need to be consulted. What we do not want to accept – and I hope that the Council of State listens to, if she is still the Council of State later – is a training of the further work on the law. In other words, public law must return to Stortinget as soon as possible. We want the Stortinget to be clear that, in principle, public law applies to all municipal and county activities, regardless of their form of organisation. It also applies to intercommunal companies. We have our own proposal on this. Local reorganisations have led to closure, and increasing AS certification and competitive outsourcing are a threat to transparency. When it comes to the outsourcing of municipal services – we hope that this will not happen, but we see the possibility – we want the disclosure law to apply to the private companies that provide the services with public funds. Intercommunal companies will often operate in a business environment. But we believe that the principle should be transparent, and then the necessary exceptions must be justified, cf. Section 6. In line with this view, we agree with the Government Party that exemptions for state enterprises should be abolished. State entities manage significant social resources that need to be transparent. The left will submit joint proposals for candidate lists in addition cases to be still public. Both in the interests of equality, in order for women to be reached by the addition of leadership positions and in order to prevent additions on a political or other basis that do not tolerate transparency, we believe it is important to keep the rules of the day. We support the Committee's proposals for improvements, and we support the minority where the minority goes the farthest. Then, on behalf of SV, I will present our own proposal, proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox We might want someone to comment on it later, because it's possible that we'll ask for it to be sent, but it depends on other people's comments.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e504	Ågot Valle has made the proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left which she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e507	As has been highlighted by many, the issue of public access and transparency in administration has an important aspect in relation to democracy. It has an important side to our having an open society, and that both government and elected bodies govern and make their decisions on behalf of the people. Then the public, the people, will also have the opportunity to see. This is important. In the case of development lines related to the principle of disclosure and public disclosure, we have one period until 1970, when we were given the disclosure law. Getting the law and principle established in such a good way from the time perspective that it was then was an important result of the government's work. In the period from 1970 to the mid-1980s, the trend was largely towards greater public awareness, among other things. by legislative changes in 1982. It will be my claim that from the mid-1980s/end of the 1980s onwards to the April announcement of the government, there was a trend towards less transparency and more exceptions to the principle of disclosure. The reasons for this are, on the one hand, changes in the organisation of general government, which have brought together bodies that were previously two bodies and, on the other hand, where there was transparency in the communication between the bodies, so that they became one body. In other words, organisational change resulted in less publicity without a change of rules. A very clear example here is within the municipal administration. But also through some direct legislative decisions, public disclosure was reduced, and at least to mention two clear examples: the rules of the State Enterprise Act and the Law on SND that the disclosure law does not apply in these areas. This trend towards less publicity, which could be seen mainly by the government of Harlem Brundtland, was certainly the background for proposals of a different nature to changes in the public disclosure law, which eventually led the Stortinget to make an explicit request for a public disclosure notice. The announcement of the Public Service Act used the governments Harlem Brundtland and Jagland well over two years not to promote. At least we can see that. The fact that the government of Jagland announced that it would not promote this in June 1997 was the reason why the Left then found it necessary to act when the government did not act. It was the background that a work was done on what was called "St.meld. No 0". The work left there had been one of the reasons why the Waxenå Declaration stressed that the work on a public disclosure notice towards greater transparency is a priority area of work for the Bondevik government. The government also followed up what stood in "St.meld. No 0". It is a very clear and easily recognisable line from ‘St.meld’. No 0» of the Committee established by the Judicial Committee. Now it was that the big message was met with certain reservations, perhaps not least from the press environment, but also from some opposition parties, because it was basically a little toothless and really didn't go that far. Well, the committee setting shows that the government went beyond what it was able to bring down, so it could not have been as toothless as someone tried to give the impression. Rather, it was contrary to a very offensive announcement, which has clearly meant the most important new step towards increasing public awareness in relation to 1970 when the law came. Important breakthroughs relate to issues relating to public-owned companies, the proposal to repeal the second paragraph of Section 5, to subordinate bodies, to the issue of international organisations, and to move from word to word in terms of publicity in the Stortinget. Let me just finally take up proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e529	Harald Hove has promoted the proposal on behalf of the Left and Socialist Left Party to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e535	I noticed that the representative Hove in his post was once again in the time perspective that the previous government had in relation to the processing of the message. I replied to that instead. I just want to stress again that the proposal to the Bondevik government is that you need even more time to do what you have put the leadership about now. As I also said instead, the message was almost ready when we got the government change. But what I want to grasp in this line is the statement by the representative of Hoves that when you got into the government position, it was important to get into action. Then I have to say I wonder a little about some cases that have happened during the current government, and that show that it might not be quite as easy in practice to make things change quickly. I am thinking in particular of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. We had a case that concerned transparency of the meaning that the euro can have for Norwegian companies, which I assume is that the whole of Business Norway should be interested in. One of the few departments that exempted that matter was the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and everyone knows who is the Council of State there. At the same time, State Council Sponheim had gone out in the department with the poster «Be Open». It should probably be called "Keep awake". What then becomes my question is: Does the representative of Hove mean that the lack of action by the Council of State is in line with the view that the Left has of action in relation to the public?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e542	It has been said in a number of cases that have been dealt with in the Justice Committee, at times that these works were almost clear from the previous government, and that the new government therefore had a lot to build on when it took over. Now, in fact, the situation is that for us big-time representatives, it's impossible to know how far a case has come in a department. The only person who can therefore answer the question of how much of the work this would have done is the Minister of Justice. If I don't perceive the cuts in this house completely wrong, it's really not a good tone by a government council to a great extent to go into what the previous government council has done. This claim that the message was basically finished before the government took over Bondevik was completely undocumented and a claim on which it is not really right to go very much into it. We're just going to see that in the two and a half years that you had, at least you didn't prove that you had done this message. That's essentially what we can see, and all the attempts at something else are just a little bit difficult to deal with. With regard to the practice of the Public Procurement Act, there is no doubt that the new government has resulted in greater transparency in the administration based on the applicable law. It shows all available statistics on public policy. Not least for the Ministry of Industry and Trade, statistics show a significant decrease in the percentage of rejection. When it comes to the question relating to the specific matter, I only get to admit that I do not know it, and then I am unable to comment on it further.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e551	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e554	I belong to those who register and who are pleased that there is a relatively broad consensus on the disclosure law in Stortinget now. First of all, I am pleased with it because publicity is such an important part of our general democratic system that consensus between the parties increases the legitimacy of the public society as a general rule, but also for the justified exceptions that a public law must have. That's why, in my opinion, it's a little strange that one of the most important elements of this debate so far has become an entry on postulates. I realize that the Left may have a special need to discuss the Public Relations Act. The law of publicity is, after all, one thing that might be of particular interest to the press and lawyers, and I would almost say that the group of leftists has heavy elements of it, both in percentage and absolute terms. But I don't think you should be so preoccupied with the postulates that you let it overshadow the broad consensus that is now established on almost every major issue. One of Harald Hoves' postulates, if I have understood him correctly – I have to take that reservation – seems to be that if the Workers' Party had presented this from the government position, we would have had tighter conditions for the public, and he's trying to prove this by spending some time getting a thorough review of these issues even while the Workers' Party was in power. It's a postulate that can neither be proved nor disproved. My counterpostulat, which can neither be proved nor denied, is that it is very likely that a workers' party government would present a news report of publicity which as much as is available today, but which would then be met with bastant criticism from the current government parties because one had gone too short. None of these two postulates can be proved, but mine has at least the probability that it resembles the situation in a number of other political areas after the last government shift. Finally, I would like to come to the point on which I am very pleased that the Committee agrees, namely what the Committee says about the use of the disclosure law in the Storting itself, that this must be under the control of the Storting itself, and that reference is made to a separate investigation of the Presidency. In so far as the use of public information by the Storting is also subject to different means, it is also possible to apply it to public law, to its own law, to its own rules of procedure or otherwise. What also pleases me in this context is that when we agree on the need to introduce publicity as far as possible in the Storting, we also agree on what kind of functionality in the internal work of Storting we must seek to preserve, for example. the freedom of any citizen to address his or her representative or the political parties, without coming into the public eye for that reason. I also very much appreciate the emphasis on the needs of the preparatory work carried out by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights unanimously put into the vote. This recognition of the need for confidentiality in the Committee's internal work at the preparatory stage was a matter of controversy when the Stortingeet decided with one vote to introduce the open hearings in the Stortinge. That is why I am pleased that there has now been an agreement again to maintain the functionality of the committees.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e572	Greater transparency about the government's work is an important matter for the government. St. Report. No 32 for 1997-98, which was presented to the Stortinget in spring, is the most comprehensive review of the Public Health Act since its adoption in 1970. The Communication sets out several changes which, if adopted, will lead to a more open public space. I am therefore pleased with the connection that the main message of the message has received during the committee discussion here in Stortinget. In the following, I will be very careful to draw up some key issues. Since the adoption of the Public Health Act in 1970, society as well as administrative tasks and working methods have changed considerably. In particular, I would like to highlight three developments: the reorganisation and privatisation of management, increased internationalisation and new forms of work in management, in particular the use of electronic means. There is a growing trend today to reorganise government. Several tasks previously carried out by general administrative bodies or management companies are currently carried out either by companies owned by the public or by privately owned companies on behalf of the public sector. The impact of this on the principle of disclosure has been little considered in the reorganisation process. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the fact that this is a problem that needs to be worked on further, and that choosing an organisational form in itself should not affect the right to transparency in public-owned activities, whether at government or municipal level. The increased internationalisation has made Norwegian legislation increasingly influenced by international legislation. I am pleased that a single Justice Department supports the Government's view that there should be changes to the rules that provide greater transparency in the work on international legislation. But here, of course, we also need to take into account the specificities of foreign policy. Another development is that the exchange of paper has been largely replaced by the exchange of information through electronic means. This raises many new issues that the Government will address in more detail. As the Justice Committee points out, this also raises privacy issues. However, I would like to point out that more available information can contribute to the strengthening of privacy by improving access to sources, making it easier to detect and correct incorrect or incomplete information. In the near future, the government will present a proposal on new data protection laws. However, the aspect of data protection will also be taken into account in the design and practice of the disclosure law. I am pleased that a single justice authority agrees with the Government that there must be a review of the exemption rules in the second paragraph of Section 5 of the Public Health Act, i.e. «internal documents» obtained from certain other bodies for the purposes of public access. I have noticed the leadership of the committee at this point, and will base these on the further work. The wide scope of exemption opens up by Section 5 creates specific problems in relation to the municipalities. I am pleased that a joint committee supports the Government's view that the transparency of the municipalities should be broadened, and I have also noted the Committee's comments on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e591	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e594	There has been a long demand for a big message to discuss the principle of publicity in the administration. A total of seven different private proposals have been made in the United Kingdom since 1993 to ensure transparency in public administration. In addition, there has been a proposal to legislate on the principle of publicity. This law is now out of fashion for discussion and change. It's probably not a law in Norway, except for the road traffic laws, that's been broken as often as the public law. The Labour Party government didn't seem to want to do anything about this, even if Jan Petter Rasmussen today said that the Labour Party might as well present this message. The difference is that they didn't. This is why the message is now here. Of course, I was part of the proposal for public health law to be applicable to the State Enterprise and District Development Fund, SND. This was agreed in the Stortinget in June 1995, against a workers' party. All this would have been wanted many times. The background to my re-examination in 1995 was that there were questions about how SND had benefited the 900 million. kr that Stortinget in the fall of 1994 allowed for conversion measures in the food industry. On the question of how these money was used, of what type of business and where in the country, the answer was that it was not possible for the government representatives to know because the public law didn't mean SND. But it was the Stortinget who had opened up these public money, and it seemed totally unimaginable – understand the one who can! Of course, there was a suspicion that something had to be hidden from the Stortinget. That is why it is nice that there is a mass accumulation which, on a proposal from the Government, is in favour of a positive decision in the SND on premiums, guarantees and risk loans being covered by the Public Service Act. This ensures transparency in such decisions. Otherwise, I have noticed that there are no pluralities to support the Government's proposal to lift the exemption from the public policy for state enterprises. The foundation of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party for this is that it should be heard first. But if there's something that's thoughtful and discussed before, in all fields over many years, it has to be this. There might be reason to wonder if there are substitute motives that are the reason for going against.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e605	It is a happy day for the Left, and it is an important day for the Government and all who are concerned with greater transparency in the public administration, when a message like the one we are discussing today is being debated, with such broad support for important points. And it's in many important areas it's aimed at taking steps in the right direction. I would strongly warn against minimizing the proposals for which this is a majority. I have gone through this and found that there are at least 15 areas where it is proposed to initiate important improvements that will give the desired result, greater transparency. There is no doubt that the centre parties have had the driving role in this work. Tom Thoresen said that he had to stick to postulates when assessing whether there was a difference between the views of the Labour Party and the Centre Party. If a person spends some time going into the message, a little bit of help can be given to the actual situation. It is beyond doubt that in several important areas, the Labour Party reserves itself. This applies, inter alia, to: Section 5, second paragraph, where they do not support the Government's proposal to cancel all or part of this. That is a very important point. Everyone who's been working on transparency issues knows that. So the Labour Party is not a member of the majority here. In the case of state enterprises, the Workers' Party is also not involved in the offensive proposal promoted by the Government. And in the case of public limited liability companies, it's a very defensive line the Workers' Party is turning on. Nor do they participate in the arrangement of the centre lots in relation to actual information. This way one can continue to prove that there is a clear difference between the line on which the centre parts are located and the line on which the working party is located. With regard to the intentions of the Workers' Party in its work on the disclosure, one must stick to the statements made in the public debate about the ambitions of the Party. Of them, one can say that the Workers' Party had no desire to go as far as the Center Government provided. The central government has been in the situation that the hare in a field of leisure is – he will provide good speed, but at the same time he will ensure that he is not so far ahead of the field that he loses contact with those he has to go on to get to the desired result. What is important now is that further work on this issue is being undertaken in an offensive way. It's definitely the best thing to do in the direction of the central government.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e625	Then it's Jan Petter Rasmussen who's next in the field! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e629	First, a small signal in relation to the proposal from SV – the representative asked Valle for it. If the proposal as it stands here is going up to the vote of reality, we will go against it. It is justified that the elements that lie here are precisely the elements that we want to consider further. And as the government itself has said, it is necessary to draw up some limits for new rules, among other things. in the case of public-owned companies. However, if the proposal is converted into a transmission proposal, it is of course all right for the Workers' Party. Both Unn Aarrestad and Gunnar Kvassheim stated that it is good that the message is here today. Of course, we've also expressed that. We are very happy that the message is here today. I'm not going to go into the discussion about how much has been done, or not done before. In any case, the starting point is that we agree with everything in the notification. That's why I think it's a little stupid when the representative Gunnar Kvassheim interprets what we're saying about assessments, like we're against. The government is offering you ratings here. I feel that in this case too, the Left is going to play the opposition role in a way, while they're in position. The representative Kvassheim mentions the second paragraph of § 5. A joint committee says that we need to review the second paragraph of Section 5, based on greater transparency. Can it be clearer? When one goes on to what the government party says in the committee, and some details they're grasping, we see that they're going to be part of the discussion that's coming. The same applies to Section 6 which concerns, inter alia: externalities, where one is also concerned with some so-called technical solutions which are unnecessary for us to say something about. We want an assessment, but we don't want to give leadership to the Government, assuming they want to make their own assessments. Nor can I avoid mentioning, once I have the word, that the practice that has been carried out in a number of matters of this Government shows that it is not as simple as they say, turning one alleged development to another. There's a lot of examples now. I mentioned Sponheim's department instead. We have State Council of Reply City Haugland, who had to be in Stortingen to answer about two letters in the same case – and there is probably one of the most serious things that has happened, namely one that should be open, and one that should be closed, that goes on what the Government really meant. But as I said, we are very happy that the message is here today, and we are very pleased with the big consensus on what is in the message, which is going to make us get a more open administration in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e646	As you might have registered, this is a matter in which both signed as a person and left party have a pretty strong commitment. I therefore hope that it can be forgiven that I was unable to say everything I wanted to say in the course of a five-minute post – so that this post will somewhat complement the post that I made earlier. To take a small question in the posts of Mr Rasmussen's representative, I would like to stress that he asked questions as to whether it could be ‘si clearer’. My answer to that question is, in fact, yes, it could be said more clearly than the number of committees combined is behind when it comes to the second paragraph of Section 5. It is quite clear that at that point the Government first has, and later also the governmental parties in the comments in the committee position go further than the majority in the committee actually does. It leads me to a question that I want to use some sentences on. That is the question of information and, in particular, actual information. The Public Relations Act is a law that very much links the issue of yes or no to disclosure to documents. It would, in our view, be a further development of this if, in the law, the question of exemption from disclosure is more closely linked to the information contained in the document and therefore goes beyond what the law currently does, as regards the fact that even if there is one information in the document that warrants a derogation, the rest of the document should nevertheless be required to be published. The second and, after all, perhaps the most important issue in the law is the question of actual information in documents. There is no doubt in this respect that the parties to the government of the Committee go the farthest in expressing the need to go further in this work with a very positive attitude towards saying that actual information should always be public. How far you can go here – and there you have to recognise that questions of burden and the like also come into the picture – you have to basically find out about further work. So just a little bit to the proposal that's promoted by the Left and SV. The first thing to do is to make sure that you don't have to be on the candidate list is that it's actually going to be free to get rid of the transparency itself. In relation to some jobs, it is important to know who are the applicants – in other words, who did not get the job, not just who got the job. It's also important from a democratic point of view, knowing how to recruit the government.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e665	The representative Rasmussen referred to a case in the Ministry of Justice which he described as one of the most serious things that had taken place when there was a breach of the Public Health Act. If you are looking for the refined and rough, there is good literature in the field that describes practices in the times of the Jagland government and Harlem Brundtland government, among others. by the Ombudsman for Civil Liberties, who points out gross violations in relation to the Ministry of Justice, etc. Now leave it. What's important now is to move on. There are two areas where there are clear wordings in the setting, which have not been so much focused on today. One is that one says that a quick will come back to concrete proposals, and then I hope the Stortinget assumes that this will happen at centre speed, not at working party speed. In addition, it is foreseen – and important – that one should practice the principle of more publicity offensively until the legislative revision has been adopted. I think it is important to make it clear clearly that it is expressed a willingness to practice greater transparency that should be expressed from today's date. It should be linked to the targeted attitude-building work that is now taking place, among other things. in the departments, and which have produced a clear result, in the sense that there are now more people asking for transparency who get it. And when more people get insight, and it turns out that it's possible to achieve with such desires, more and more people are asking for transparency. Both are important in a democratic process. What's the picture now is that we have a more offensive attitude to practice openness, and we've got a set of laws where one is willing to move important landmarks, so that the law goes in the same direction. It's a useful phase after a decade with a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e674	Jan Petter Rasmussen has had the word twice, and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e677	I think it's very obvious that the left now is trying to add up to construct a big disagreement, when almost everyone here today, except for the left, has underlined the big consensus that lies at the bottom. I do not know if the representative Kvassheim heard my statement earlier today – I pointed out exactly what he did, namely that an extensive more publicity should be practised until a change in the law can happen. In the case of Section 5, second paragraph, it is not possible to say it clearer than we did. I'll say that, no matter what the representatives of Hove and Kvassheim say. We're saying a change, with greater transparency for the eye. Then it would be unnecessary to give the government this in with events, as the Left wants us to do. And just for the record, the violation of the public law that Kvassheim pointed to did not concern the Ministry of Justice, but the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e686	Harald Hove has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e689	Just to the question of whether it is possible to say it clearer: I insist on ‘yes’. Because when the majority exemplifies with a kind of situation that should be public, it is very likely that the Press Association is right when they claim that the examples used are actually examples where today's law also provides for publicity. And then, in fact, this doesn't become as clear as what Rasmussen's representative has said. With regard to actual information, there is no doubt that both the Government and the Government parties go beyond the scope of the overall committee and that is important. However, let me finally, because it has been requested that it is also expressed on the Left's side as joy over the connection given, be allowed here to express joy over the connection that has also been given from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and SV to important parts of this.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e696	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 479]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e710	I did not intend to take the floor, but I would like to make it clear, for the sake of order, that the Stortinget has received a letter from the Ministry of Justice stating that the Health Authority now generally recommends that anyone who is infected with hepatitis C virus through blood products obtained from the health care system before being able to exclude the risk of infection should be provided with a cheap refund of NOK 100,000. This new position of the Health Authority concerns case No. 24 in the proposal, where compensation of NOK 25 000 has been granted. In its recommendation, the Committee recommended that the complaint be rejected. I do not consider it appropriate to propose any changes to the Committee's position once we have reached such a stage in the examination process, but would stress that the Committee would not object to a reassessment of the amount of compensation in case No. 24 in the light of the review carried out by the Health Authority, and assuming that the Ministry is promoting the reassessment of the matter in the Committee on Credits, as the Ministry also notes in its letter.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e719	The reason I asked for the word now was that I also wanted to make Stortinget aware of this matter. I want – with the President's permission – to refer to Stortinget the letter that I sent to the Presidency, which concerns the payment of the State Treasury's bills of exchange. I'll refer there to Innst. S. No 25 for 1998-99, from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and further states: «For information, please note:In case No. 24 has granted the Billing Replacement Committee a compensation of NOK 25 000. In a letter of 21 August d.a. to the Ministry of Justice as the Secretariat of the Scotia Scotia Committee, the State Health Inspectorate now generally recommends that anyone infected with hepatitis C virus through blood products made available to the health service before it was scientifically or technically possible to exclude the risk of infection should be provided with a cheap substitute of DKK 100 000.The Ministry of Justice as the Secretariat of the Scotia Scotia Committee will ensure that this general recommendation will form the basis for the treatment of similar cases and that this will also provide the basis for the promotion of case No. 24 for reassessment.’» [[HCV]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e733	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 480]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e747	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 481]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e761	St. pp. No 81 for 1997-98 and Innst. S. No 29 for 1998-99 concerns the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of the Directive of the European Parliament on the posting of workers in connection with the provision of services. An EEA Joint Committee agrees with the proposal to approve the EEA Committee’s decision to amend Annex XVIII to the EEA Agreement. The Committee’s plurality — all except SV — indicates that this is a minimum directive and therefore does not prevent the benefits of working and adding conditions that are more favourable to employees. The majority have noted that the Directive regulates the terms and conditions of employment to be applied when workers are temporarily posted on behalf of another Member State. The majority believe that the Directive strengthens the conditions of employment and the addition of posted workers. The subsequent implementation requires the designation of a cooperative office that will receive information tasks, as well as an implementing law that guarantees the legal options and access requirements of the Directive, and the legal validity of civil law rules to posted workers. A small minority – the representative from SV – has linked in the note their signaled view and activity to future follow-up matters in this house, for which the representative himself may wish to do well. The configuration has been successfully synchronized.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e776	It's a unanimous committee. SV is also voting in favour of the directive. Like the majority, we want the directive to strengthen the interests of workers. But we're concerned that implementation has to be good, and we want to say a little bit about it now, because we feel that we might have a little bit different angles of incidence for this. International rules that prevent social dumping are needed in an increasingly open and international and global labour market – that is necessary, but in no way enough. The directive is a minimum directive. You can go further, but it's based on the laws and collective agreements of each country. This means that if there is a poor pay and employment situation in a country, the directive will mean little – even if little is done to implement it actively. The main means of ensuring good pay and employment is, as it has been before, an active and strong trade movement. It must be built up because capital and enterprises are gradually becoming more and more internationalised. And it has to meet from the other side by building a network that strengthens and can match that strength on the employer's side. It's also good for our competitiveness if we can do this. In addition, there is a need for economic policies aimed at low unemployment and small differences. I draw this picture because it is in this reality that the directive is to be interpreted and implemented. Collective employee rights are under pressure. Individual rights can be good for those who are the most attractive – those who have the skills and knowledge to be sought, who are the new capital. However, for most people, employment, wages and social conditions will depend entirely on a strong trade union movement and a political pressure to achieve good pay and employment. The directive depends on this, and in Norway the law is good. But what it's going to look like on the pay side is uncertain, because we don't have any public tariff agreements. And it is unclear whether the tariff agreements we have are so extensive that there are enough workers represented in a particular industry or profession to apply the principle set out in Article 3(8). If it is not possible to do so, it is very unclear what the Directive will have for workers sent out to do a job in Norway. We will come back to this when the Government promotes its legislative amendments. But it therefore requires an extensive political will to follow it up and use the possibilities offered by the directive to prevent social dumping. It is particularly important to think thoroughly through aspects of this also when dealing with changes in the Employment Act, in terms of labour renting, for example. fewer fixed jobs, more fragmentation, weaker trade-union, more difficult control - control is one of the things to be established in the wake of this Directive. It's a little bit unclear how this will be when it's implemented. Most importantly, the authorities now choose not to make use of the possibility of exemption from the provision provided for in Article 3(3) in order to make the rules and rights attached to them applicable from the first day of dispatch.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e795	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 481]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e803	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e810	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is proposal No. 1, from Harald Hove on behalf of the Left and Socialist Left Party. The President notes that the proposal is in its amended version and that the amendment consists only of the inclusion of the Socialist Left as co-rapporteur. That is proposal No. 2, from Ågot Valle on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposals have been distributed in the Chamber. The suggestions are first voted on and then over the setting. Mr Nilssen has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e823	Proposal No. 1, from the Left and Socialist Left Party, I recommend the Christian People's Party and the Central Party to vote against, because we are part of the Committee's joint comment. Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, I ask SV to consider transmitting the Government. I see the content as important, as we have assessed it, and if the proposal is submitted, it will be included in the further evaluation in the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e830	As regards proposal No: 1, is the Left who has exercised the customary opposition to the party groups behind the Government. If the proposal is not converted into a transmission proposal, I would ask the Right-wing Group to vote against it. The same applies to proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e835	As regards proposal No: 2, in order to take it first, I agree with the rapporteur, Wisløff Nilssen, and recommend that it be turned into a transmission proposal. If not, the Labour Party will vote against. With regard to the joint proposal from the Left and the Left Party, this is very much the opposite of what we have entered into the committee position, so I recommend that the Labour Party vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e842	Proposal No. 1, from, inter alia: Left, is a strong attack on privacy. Proposal No. 2, from SV, will weaken the commercial activities of municipal companies. I would therefore recommend that our group vote against both proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e847	As regards proposal No: 2, I'm glad that several have stated that this contains important things that need to be included in the further assessments. That is why I would ask that it be sent to the Government. As regards proposal No: 1, I would say that SV will agree to defend the transparency of the administration in this area as well, and of course we recommend many to vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e854	As regards proposal No: 1, the Government has not proposed a change at that point. Proposal for a change to this point has been raised in the committee, and it is true that there is disagreement between the centre parties in relation to the committee setting. As regards proposal No: 2, it is very positive that it will be sent – it would alternatively be voted down here – because it is well in line with the ambitions of the Government at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e861	Thus, everyone has expressed how the voting should be done. The President records that Ågot Valle has made on proposal No. 2 for transmission proposals. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended to the Government in the further work of the Public Relations Act that the law should in principle apply to all municipal and county activities, irrespective of their form of organisation, including inter-municipal companies.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It is considered biphasic. Proposal No. 1, from the Left and Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The ruling asks the Government to take account of the further work of the Public Procurement Act on the maintenance of the law on candidate lists in addition cases without amendment.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e1293	This proposal is proposed to provide transparency for the members of the matter for at least one day and then listed on the map for consideration. The President will draw attention to the fact that, at the time of the Presidency's proceedings, there was an overall presidency based on what has now been proposed for consideration, i.e. paragraph 28, third paragraph, point (c) of the Rules of Procedure, which is in line with what has been referred to in the procedure. The President further considers it right to point out that a majority of the Presidency, consisting of the Workers' Party and the Right, wished that the matter, after being referred to, should be open to scrutiny one day, and then be listed on the map on Tuesday – i.e. tomorrow. A minority of the Presidency wanted to postpone treatment later without deciding on which day, but then after you might be in a special situation in this Chamber on Thursday evening. The President is basing this on.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e1302	With this proposal being promoted in order to be able to come to grips with a situation where no positive budgetary decision was taken in the context of the financial debate, it would be pointless to deal with it before the financial debate is over. On that basis, I will be allowed to draw the proposal, as the majority of the Presidency did not have the patience to wait until the purpose was achieved. At the same time, I make a reservation that I will resubmit it, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23.ana.ud375e1307	The President then records that the record case no. Seventy-five is drawn. Further references were made:
