ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e60	The Norwegian economy has experienced strong growth for several years, including: a strong increase in employment and a fall in unemployment. For most, recent years have meant a significant improvement in purchasing power and living standards. However, there are signs that in the Norwegian economy we have approached a capacity limit that will sooner or later put a stop to further growth. In several sectors, it has long been virtually impossible to provide skilled labour. The Employment Commission’s recommendations have led to too much economic policy in recent years. In a number of areas, the Commission’s objectives are more than met. Norway is today a country with nearly full employment ‘in a sea of unemployment’, characterised by observers both current and past situations. The challenge ahead is to pursue a solidarity wage policy that ensures that the competitiveness of enterprises can continue in recent years. It is in a situation of low unemployment that the willingness to seek collective solutions is put to the test. Based on the new challenges of income policy, the government has invited the parties to the Government Contact Committee to a two-day conference in December. This conference will also discuss the question of setting up a new Commission or Committee for the Development of the Framework for Future Cooperation in Income Policy. Both the parliamentary head of the Christian People's Party, the Landsorganisation and the Society's main organisation have made proposals in this direction. This issue is also raised in today's financial position, among others. through a proposal from the Workers' Party. I welcome the intentions of the proposal. The government considers mutual commitment cooperation with the social partners in a demanding economic situation as very important. It is elevating that the leader of the LO has sent out a signal of very moderate additions in the spring’s ‘intermediate settlement’. Realisation of such a line increases the country’s ability to contribute to the reform of continuing education and training. The Government’s proposals for the 1999 government budget resulted in a fiscal tightening of up to 1 pst. or about 9 billion kroner. The negotiated budget line represents a tightening of slightly less than NOK 8 billion. The political reactions to the Government's draft budget were twofold: firstly, the Government was given broad support to a tightening of the levels proposed. But on the other hand, most batches have spent a lot of energy working against the individual elements of the tightening system. Against this background, the Government parties had to be willing to go far in order to obtain the necessary political decisions in relation to the budget. Similarly, we had to expect that the opposition was willing to compromise to provide the country with a budget. The party of progress and the right has been willing to do so. The budget negotiations in the autumn have led to a backlash of international economic unrest and a dramatic fall in the oil price, which is of great importance to the Norwegian economy. At the same time, there is reason to point out that the outside world’s assessment of the Norwegian economy as a ‘raw materials economy’ is probably exaggerated. The 1999 budget provides for the lowest consumption of petroleum revenues of 10 years. It shows that over several years, the Norwegian economy has been moving in the right direction in relation to the objective of less oil dependence. This development should continue. It is essential that we do not lose control of the development of costs in the Norwegian industry, which may in the long term lead to lost market shares and the risk of unemployment rising again. The government, through its financial arrangements, has provided the basis for continued balanced development. A decrease in the value of Norwegian krona has resulted in several interest rate increases by Norway’s Bank over the year to support the value of the currency. It is a key objective of the Government to lay the foundations for a return on interest rates towards European level. It is demanding to govern from a minority government position. But we've shown again that that's possible. Then the experience from the year's process is used to make the treatment of later budgets more efficient. Unfortunately, the role of the Labour Party has been a little constructive. In reality, the party has been excluded from influence because of resistance to one reform, namely the cash support for young children’s parents. Yes, the party will even take the support from its parents in the middle of a kindergarten year where they have just based themselves on this transfer. But the Workers' Party made an important contribution: during the party's national meeting just one week ago, it became quite clear that the party was out for government. It is fair enough for the largest opposition party in the country. Instead of saying a critical word about their so-called main opponents, they announced the absence of positions in their own distribution policy programme. Parties that did not want a Jagland government back came to an agreement that the Government also considers to be a satisfactory budget for next year. The Party of Advancement and the Right shall have the honor of meeting the Government Parties. Tax policy has been at the heart of the debate. In its alternative budgets, the Progress Party and the Right proposed DKK 25 billion and DKK 2.3 billion respectively in tax and tax relief. The government proposed, as part of a tightening-up, NOK 4 billion in increase. Then there's an exclamation to live with. On the expenditure side of the budget, the priority objectives of the central government are retained; health and care, the freedom of choice of families with young children, regional policy and improvement for small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, there is room for further improvement of the health budget and the police budget in the agreement, and the defence budget is more than in the Government’s approach. All in all, this is going to be a very good central policy. And something that doesn't matter either: the central government can keep going. We've done a lot in the first year, but we have more to do. Norway is a highly developed welfare society, with the highest level of security for work and income. But there are currents in the international and national communities that create uncertainty for the future. The government therefore sees a policy of increased security as central. The crisis in the international economy is a threat to growth and well-being in all countries, especially the poor. In these days, particular attention is paid to Latin America, where it is essential to stabilise the Brazilian economy. Norway will contribute to this through the Fund’s crisis programme. I myself expect to get first-hand information and the opportunity to discuss the situation during my trip to Brazil, Chile and Argentina in a few days. The uncertainty about the future is not least related to whether the world society is able to solve the environmental and poverty problems. Although Norway’s contribution will in any case be limited in relation to what is needed, the Government will ensure that our country is at the forefront of these challenges. Centrally, climate policy and the debt burden of developing countries stand. Our own Environment Minister has been part of a group of members from different countries, who were commissioned by the UN Secretary-General to review the UN's work on environmental issues. The government has proposed a comprehensive debt forgiveness plan from developing countries to Norway. It has gained broad support and has fostered international interest. Europe is changing. The government will actively use the opportunities Norway offers to influence and safeguard the interests of our country in relation to various European organisations. The EEA Agreement, the OSCE, the Council of Europe and the Nordic Councils, the Baltic Council and the Barents Council, NATO and the Partnership for Peace together provide a framework for an active commitment to the shaping of the future for our neighbourhoods and for our own continent. Many also have a growing sense of insecurity based on relationships in our own society. The development of gross and brutal violence is frightening and unacceptable. The situation must meet on a broad basis. It has to do with attitudes and norms. It has to do with the police and the judiciary. We see particularly frightening violent trends in the youth community. We must call on parents' responsibilities to a greater extent. We must also dare to discuss the role of the immigrant community in this. I myself would therefore like to take the initiative of direct dialogue with them to discuss instruments, to improve integration and to combat violence. Finally, the tension around the budget was triggered last week by the budgetary settlements entered into. All participating parties have made positive contributions. The central parties took government responsibility when the Workers' Party dismissed it after last year's election. We are prepared to continue to exercise this responsibility for a challenging and demanding time.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e107	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e110	Following the speeches by the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister today, two questions are needed. One is in danger of increased unemployment. The Minister of Finance said: ‘So it is not right that we now have an increasing unemployment rate ahead of us.’ This is contrary to what the Directorate of Labour writes in a letter to the Government on 15 October this year: ‘The Directorate of Labour expects registered unemployment to start increasing in spring 1999. The indications mentioned above allow us to reach 70 000 at the end of 1999 from a level of 50 000 full-time workers at the end of 1998.’» Does the Minister of Finance's statement here today mean that the Government ignores these warnings from the Directorate of Labour? Does the Government also start in 1999 to hear warnings from expert teams, just as it started in 1998 to hear warnings against relying on high oil prices? [[Iceland]] Question no. 2: The national budget assumes that the exchange rate is to be returned to the initial rental at the end of the year. Today, the Minister of Finance said: ‘In particular, in the event of a sustained low oil price, it may take time for the exchange rate to be returned to the initial rental and the level of interest to return to the European level.’ Does this mean that the government won't do anything extra, but let the oil price determine when we can get the interest rate down, and that in the worst case we can get a high interest rate very long? And in this context, I would like to ask about the government's relationship with the euro. Does the Minister of Finance's statement earlier today mean that the Government will not follow up the wishes of the majority of the population for a closer connection to the new European currency, the euro?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e133	To take the last one first: Of course, the government will follow the wishes and decisions of the majority of the population. Now, the representative, Mr Jagland, did not have the opportunity to be present when this was discussed in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee for some time, but it appeared there from the Minister of Finance’s statement – and it was published afterwards, so there is no secret I share – that if one with a so-called closer link to the euro and it has been difficult to get a clear explanation of what the majority of the Stortinget believes to be, means a support purchase agreement, it assumes that a return to the fixed rate policy from before 1992, not the current exchange rate policy, which aims at stable exchange rates in relation to an average of Europeans. Then in case the Labour Party and the Right, who want this, must say whether that's what they want. Conducting a fixed-rate policy can be very problematic for an oil-dependent country like Norway, because we can have greater fluctuations in the value of the krona. And as one approaches the fluctuation margins a fixed-rate policy opens up, the speculators can really put in, because one then knows that we have to use all the means, both interest rate and support purchase, to keep it there. We will have an opportunity to discuss this later, but it is clear that we are going to follow up on what the majority of people here want from further studies in the EU system, which we have already done in part. As far as unemployment is concerned, the Government, in its assumptions in the national budget, which is, of course, based on opinions and assessments from different teams of experts, has assumed that next year we will not have any increasing unemployment. But that doesn't mean we ignore warnings from environments that think things can go differently. We will have this under continuous monitoring and then adapt economic policy accordingly. Of course, we have the opportunity to come back to this – if not before then in the revised national budget – and to put in place new instruments if unemployment shows an increasing trend. But the last number we got last week showed less than 49 000 unemployed – as far as I remember, the lowest we've had in the whole 1990s.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e140	Some have argued that the most dramatic for the Norwegian economy has recently been the level of concern about the adoption of a 1999 government budget. Personally, I would argue that what is far more important for the Norwegian economy, including instability and the lower oil price, is the fall in the oil price. It has now been at a very low level for a relatively long time. There are many in the Norwegian people, both in business and in private, who wonder what the effects will be in the longer term – I think here in a four-five-year perspective – of an oil price of perhaps 60-80 kroner or 80-100 kroner. This uncertainty should now begin to be addressed by the Government and the Storting, as there is a great opportunity for the oil price to remain low. In this context, will the Government undertake an investigation and evaluation work in the relevant departments and, where appropriate, promote a key message of what adaptation measures should take place in Norwegian economic policy, perhaps climate policy and other policies, in order to prepare for such possible developments? It's better to be aware of things in advance than to get into time with such things. My specific question, then, is this: will the Government undertake the necessary work to assess the consequences of a sustained low oil price? And included in this work: Will the Government also provide an investigation and assessment of a closer Norwegian connection – including possible membership – to OPEC, which is also a relevant issue, so that in case we have a basis for the policy chosen by the country, it is the current or possible closer cooperation with this organisation?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e149	It is true, as Mr Hagen pointed out, that we are facing significant uncertainties in the development of oil prices. The government must follow up on this, and we are given the opportunity to come back to this in the revised national budget. I don't want to start a work that almost assumes such a low oil price as we have now. It may in itself seem self-enhancing to such an unfortunate trend. But if experience over time shows that the oil price remains as extremely low as it is now, some assumptions need to be adjusted. I think it's natural that the government is working on it, investigating it and can come back to it in the revised national budget, when we have something more experience than what we've had to do now. What has mainly been the situation in the last few months is a tremendous turn. Only in the time of the central government has the oil price fluctuated from approx. 160 kroner for less than 80 kroner. It shows above all an uncertainty – not a permanently low price. As regards the OPEC link, there has been a broad consensus in this House that it has not been natural for Norway for several reasons to be a member there. But we have forms of cooperation with OPEC, and we want to go into whether these can be developed and improved. Finally, let me also use this opportunity to answer a question from the previous replicator that I did not get, namely, if the government would not do anything if the price of the crown would still be weak and the interest rate would be high. The situation today shows above all that the oil price is a tremendously strong influence factor in relation to the price of the crown and hence the interest rate – not the only one, but it is important. If we do not get any help from the oil price to strengthen the crown again and bring interest down, it is clear that the government has to assess whether we can do more by national measures. But if we don't get any help from the oil price, what we can do with national measures is limited.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e158	The government has now for the third time applied to the Right and the Advance Party to find a solution to budgetary issues. So this time it happened one minute at twelve, and it really didn't end up as well as it did, because it's not going to deny that the budgetary procedure this autumn has been marked by uncertainty and population. The government has made this unnecessarily difficult, precisely by dealing with both possible aspects of budgetary work while at the same time attacking, not least on the main priorities of the Right, whether taxation or the categories we believe are particularly important. The Minister of Finance said earlier today that the Government had included significant tax increases in the proposal they submitted, and that is undoubtedly correct. Now, however, we solved the crowd at the last moment, perhaps by doing what the Minister of Finance said, namely, noting that there was no majority for tax increases of DKK 4 billion. He has given a new life to the term ‘take note’ during today’s debate. But the point is at least that we ended up with a good result. But the question is, can we really keep going the same way? I think there has been too much fambling and uncertainty about the process, and I understand that the Prime Minister agrees with me in many ways, because he said that now you should see how the process could be more effective in the future. And then my question is, what did the Prime Minister mean that the process would be more effective in the future? Is he, for example? to enter into in-depth discussions on the budget before it is presented? That it is particularly interesting because both Steensnæs and Sponheim have talked about non-social and civil cooperation is quite clear. [[The President clubs.]] I have assumed that it was perhaps more words than realities, and then the question of whether the Prime Minister shares my view that there might have been more words than realities.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e167	Now is the reality that time is running out, Mr President. Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e170	Time had run out for the line, but fortunately, time had not come to find a budget solution. We did that in the last little thing. I have been to the budget discussions in Stortinget where the solutions were not actually found until Christmas came into place in the hiking hall here – three-four weeks later than what we did this year – but that is not a good example. We have got a new budgetary system that was just going to help clarify the main framework for the budget at an earlier date. What did I say that we should learn some of the experience of the year that makes the process more effective? I think that at an earlier stage in the discussions between the parties in the Stortinget, we have to put an even harder pressure on the process to force a solution. Nothing wrong said about the work done in the Financial Committee – because it has done a good job on the basis of the framework and powers it had, and the same at the parliamentary leadership level – but we did not reach it in time. I guess I also dared to suggest that perhaps the National Assembly of the Labour Party itself was giving further puffs on the process – perhaps not in that direction the Labour Party had thought, correctly. Jan Petersen said that we can get out with both sides: I think it might be useful with more thorough prior contacts around the budget. But it must not be that a central government has to tailor the budget for one of the two sides, and thus remove the centre parties from the possibility to present a budget as we believe it to be right. But one can avoid some pitfalls by means of pre-contacts, and I think we should aim for that. I've said that before, and I'd like to repeat it now, that the budget is important, but the budget is not everything, and the central government has actually shown during this year that we can get alternating support, but in the budget we've picked it up on the right-hand side. And Norwegian social-scientific data service provided a survey last week, referenced in Today's Business, which actually showed that in seven out of ten cases the center has been with the Workers' Party. Now it's chalk and platitude, important and irrelevant, but interesting to say to those who are trying to make it so that we just lean to the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e181	I'm sorry to have to break into this friendly courtship between the Right Leader, Jan Petersen, and the Prime Minister. But there's something that has puzzled us in SV, and it's this strange and a little unworthy excuse that the Government is giving to enter into a comprehensive budgetary settlement between the Right and the Advance Party. I was hunting, they say. And Lundtigen travels around the country and the beach and says that if Bondevik hadn't replaced the Waxenås statement with right-wing policy, yes, then Jagland would have done it. For us young children's parents, these are familiar tones. Everyone's probably taken care of the little pod that has suddenly taken a whole new interest in a wrecked play at the moment when there's a little buddy coming to visit who thinks it's nice. Or maybe it's better to compare what's happened with the Government, with the somewhat subdued husband who hasn't taken his wife's interest for the last ten years, but who suddenly takes on new interest when a crack neighbor -- newly moved -- throws a few shaky glances at his wife. Then he comes up from the sofa, at full speed at the gym, and the jam he doesn't remember buying flowers on the way back! But there is no refinement or serious considerations that make the Norwegian people get more right-wing policy than they have actually asked for. There are rather primitive feelings, with an intense desire to continue to rule, and government offices are at least to prevent others from entering. Then we have to ask in SV: where is the boundary of this government in terms of right-wing policy? Now Bondevik mildly rejected Petersen's questions about pre-controversies. But he didn't end up with what Petersen asked for – that it might be interesting to have a few pre-calls. And I can see that it might be interesting for the government to have agreements or contacts with the Right Party and the Advance Party in advance. And then maybe the right turn might not be as obvious as we've seen it now. But sadly, it is not like – the Norwegian people have had much more right-wing policies than they have asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e191	«Friendly curing»: Curing is as far as I can see, as the pigeons do, and the pigeons are peaceful birds – peace pigeons – so I think that SV as a peace party should have a little more sense of it. No, the government has not replaced the Waxenå declaration with right-wing policy. There's no coverage at all to say. If you look at the Adultås statement, you'll see that we've actually implemented quite a lot of it in just one year. We've provided an account for that. I have shown that many times here from the pulpit, and I challenge all the parties here in the Stortinget to go through the accounts we have presented, measured against the Waxenås statement. I want to say that we've been through amazingly much in just one year of something that's a four-year statement, and that we have three more years on. What is there in the case that is so much more right-wing policy? Zero in tax and tax bills – is it right policy when you know that the Progress Party will have 25 billion dollars and the Right will have 2.3? More to the police and the judiciary – is that what is so wrong, which is right? That's what SV wants now. Is that lower self-interest than what we originally proposed, which is so wrong? On the contrary, I think it was good that we were able to do so within the budget framework. Is there anything more about health that is part of this conciliation? I believe such a label, right-wing policy, on the agreement becomes too simple. The truth is that the budget agreement that is likely to be adopted tonight contains a very good centre policy — more focus on districts, small and medium-sized enterprises, the freedom of choice, energy economy, health, police and justice. No, we actually have a pretty good conscience for this. Kristin Halvorsen's problem is that SV is without influence, and it is well on the way to the Workers' Party that has caused.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e202	When we adopted this year's government budget last autumn, the Bondevik government underestimated the risks of interest rate increase in Norway and let it be tightened, as suggested in the original draft budget. Now it is obvious that the Government of Bondevik underestimates the risk of new unemployment in Norway. Both the statements made by the Minister of Finance, the statements made by the Prime Minister and the draft budget have been made. The finance minister said that it is wrong that unemployment is now increasing, and the Prime Minister agreed that we are not now facing a period of increasing unemployment. So they have two statements. One is that unemployment has not increased, and the other is that it is not going to increase either. Both parts are wrong. First, until the issue of unemployment has increased. Well, it's kind of dependent on how you're raining. But when the Directorate of Labour presented their figures on Thursday, they had one main point, namely that although unemployment figures have fallen from September to now, the seasonally adjusted unemployment rate has risen for the first time in three years. It's perfectly normal that the time off goes down over the fall, it happens every year. The problem this year is that unemployment has fallen less than it tends to do, and that's the first time in three years we see an increasing unemployment when we correct for normal seasonal variations. This is by itself no dramatic increase, but it is a turning point, a shift, in the labour market that the Government obviously has not brought. The second is if we are knowingly faced with new leave. Well, no one knows for sure. The problem is that the leading trade unions are now finding more freedom. The central statistical agency is tracking a rather sharp increase in unemployment next year. The Directorate of Labour traces a rather sharp increase in unemployment next year. It is soon only the Ministry of Finance that maintains its first forecasts that unemployment will fall further in 1999, and that is what they have based the entire budget on, among other things. by more than halving labour market measures. It is possible to reduce these measures in a year when unemployment falls, but it is not possible to halve them in a year when unemployment is increasing. My question is whether the Prime Minister agrees with the Minister of Finance that we have not had an increase in unemployment and that it will not increase either.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e215	The most important thing about the representative of Stoltenberg now said was that in fact no one can know with full certainty how it goes about the development of employment and unemployment. Stoltenberg, who himself has been the head of the Ministry of Finance, knows that that department carefully evaluates the various professional input it receives from, among others. The Statistical Centre and the Directorate of Labour, but it has never been such that these bodies mentioned here are the only ones who manage the truth on this issue. A ministry and a government are obliged to make an independent assessment of this. We're clearly saying that it's uncertain how this works. We have taken into account that, of course, there may be less favourable developments than those envisaged in the national budget. Then we have the opportunity to adjust the instruments beyond 1999. We can, for example: now when we adopt a relatively tight budget, if necessary, put in place measures in relation to the revised national budget – also because we have in a way provided economic space for it. So we're not underestimating the danger of unemployment. It is Government's main task No. 1 of economic policy to further reduce unemployment. This will be discussed, including with the social partners, at the conference on income policy initiated by the Government. If the Labour Party is so concerned about increasing unemployment, why are they proposing more measures that are counter-business? Why does a change in the sharing model propose for family-run enterprises, which could put more of them at risk? Why does one suggest removing stock discounts? Why does one oppose the proposal for a refund scheme for seafarers? Why would a change in the shipping tax, which has had a beneficial effect on the employment of Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships? I do not think the Labour Party has put forward any policy for increased employment – on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e224	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e227	After the Prime Minister's reply to me, and to Jens Stoltenberg right now, I can state that the Government takes the chance that the Directorate of Labour is not entitled to increase unemployment. The Prime Minister has also raised doubts about the Government's objective of the possibility of a reduction in interest rates. He said that there is little government can do if it does not get help from oil prices. This is not acceptable for the Workers' Party. There is a great danger that the Norwegians will have to pay an extra levy in the form of an excessive interest rate because: Norway is too oil-dependent, and the budgetary agreement between the Government and the right will make us more oil dependent. The single European currency, the euro, comes on 1 January 1999. Norway’s position will be even more vulnerable in an already unstable world, but the government is not taking any action. We have a very unstable government that chooses to depend on a right-wing populist party. The Prime Minister also gave the impression that he would prefer to cooperate with the Workers' Party. Otherwise, it is not possible to interpret him when he still regrets that the Workers' Party has put itself outside. Yes, he has just complained that SV has been outside using the Workers' Party. I think it is noticed that the government parties do not take responsibility for the agreement they have entered into with the Right Party and the Advance Party, but owe it to the Workers' Party that they actually did. Basically, there is no whole-hearted defence for the conciliation in this debate, and the Prime Minister said only that the settlement was satisfactory. I do not think that is satisfactory in the current situation, that the Government has no greater ambitions when we have Europe's highest interest rate level. It doesn't create trust. Norway must be governed at a time when the world economy is in a very turbulent period. Exchange rates and interest rates fluctuate upwards and downwards. Money can be transferred from one continent to another in one second. It can also be pessimism and optimism. We are facing a combination of technology and psychology that makes us live in what is called the age of uncertainty. A small country such as Norway can easily become operational in such a reality. The situation is no easier when we know that our own continent is in a very dynamic period, and Norway is largely a spectator. But the government struggles and adapts in a defensive and negative way. This is also noted by those who are going to invest in our country. I also want to mention that many of our competitors are putting interest rates down. Price increases are very low. Norway, for its part, has reached the cyclical peak. The interest rate is 4-5 pst. higher than in other countries. The price increase is twice as high as in our competitors. The overhang in the payroll next year is very high, and low exchange rates threaten to lead to further price pressures. During the financial debate last year, the Workers' Party was criticized by both Prime Minister and others to blackmail when we warned the Government against relying on high oil prices. We warned what could come, and that actually came during the year we now have behind us. Interest went up. The Labour Party believes that the next major problem can now be increasing unemployment. In order to prevent this, the most important task must be to bring interest down as quickly as possible. Therefore, it is wrong for the Government to give the impression that it is angled in terms of fiscal policy. One week, $9 billion is absolutely necessary for tightening up. We're going to be on that, it was said here in Stortinget. Next week is 7.7 billion enough, without any scientific justification. Taking into account that one billion dollars of the coverage used does not have a retractive effect, the tightening over two billion dollars is going to be lower than the starting point. Big bills are also pushed on. I think this reminds me of last autumn. Then the problems were also solved by collecting money from the oil fund. Yeah, it reminds me of evolution all year long. The government has been driven from opportunity to opportunity — not by the opposition in and on its own, but by the economic development, which the Government has systematically underestimated. After the government's budget conference on Halvorsbøle in March, the Prime Minister said, "Everyone should get better next year." In the summer, the Prime Minister said that the cash support should not go beyond any groups. It wasn't cover for that. Two months later, it became necessary to tighten up by 9 billion kroner. It goes beyond a lot of things that the government starts a tightening up by distributing $3 billion to a small part of the population. The important thing for our country now is to pick up a course that will make Norway less dependent on oil revenues. The economy of the mainland needs to be strengthened. The working party therefore places a decisive emphasis on the following four points: The dialogue between the main social organisations, employers and the state needs to be resumed. Therefore, when the only tax increase is acceptable to the majority, it is wrong to reduce the deduction of the trade union quota, while not closing the loophole for the richest in the tax system. It will be wrong to reduce the sick pay scheme for part-time workers, which are often low-paid women. And it is a provocation to halve more than half the labour market measures. Without continuing training for all, differences will increase, and a large part of the workforce will not be able to develop. The government needs to clarify whether it will contribute to next year's wage settlement here.The second government needs to do is start a strategic dialogue with the EU. 70 pst. of our exports to the EU. The EEA Agreement is important to us. We depend on developing it further, especially during a period when the EU – and hence the EEA – is expanding by around 100 million people. The government needs to clarify whether it is prepared to start such a dialogue, including Norway’s relationship with the new European currency. Thirdly, there is a need for continued modernisation of the public sector in order to optimise it and to free up resources for services and education that people need. It is necessary to consider both the municipal structure and the relationship between the county and the county. The question will be asked whether the Government will lead to such a process. The fourth point of the Workers' Party is the commitment to research. We will set up a Norwegian Research Fund based on capital from the sale of state shares, which the bulk of the population will implement. The Workers' Party wants the state's wealth to be relocated to forward-looking research rather than to finance consumption. Marine research in particular must be given priority. Norway has unprecedented opportunities based on marine resources. Here lies the key to future district policy. I would like to ask why the government parties will not participate in setting up a Norwegian Research Fund. The new government asked for a new course for the country. The result has become Europe’s highest interest rates. The next year may bring increasing unemployment, school closures and the closure of kindergartens in the municipalities. 1999 will be a very difficult year for the municipalities, contrary to what was promised. The civil parties are trying to make it look like the Workers' Party has been sitting outside because we would not accept the cash support. But if we had accepted the cash support, we also had to be involved in financing it. It seems that someone thinks that the cash support would have been free only the Workers' Party had voted in favour of it, or even that if we had gone in favour of it, they would have received more money. But we also had to be involved in cutting down the municipalities, putting down schools, cutting down on the school leisure system and what is important to us: services and education. We wouldn't. We agreed to a compromise on the cash support. The government wouldn't have. Then we just have to note that the overall goal of the Government was to get the cash support. But I also have to say that the overall objective of the Labour Party is a better school for children and young people and better care for the elderly. Societal developments in the future will be characterised by two factors. Knowledge will mean more and more, and we will grow older who need pensions and care. The Labour Party will stick to this, and that is where we know and see the conflict in the budgetary situation of the year. We want to spend money on this instead of billions of billions every year in cash transfers that many people strictly do not need.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e285	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e288	I have three questions for the Labour Party parliamentary leader, Thorbjørn Jagland. Firstly, what is the financial framework of the Labour Party's willingness to compromise in terms of cash support? Would he be satisfied if 1 billion kroner were spent less than what is in the 1999 budget? Is that what compromise is going on? Is it the case that the billion would finance all the goods that Jagland has now encroached on and that could not happen because of the cash support? Question no. 2: Like Thorbjørn Jagland, I am also concerned about developments in the labour market. That's why we've taken the logical consequence of it and been less concerned with the tightness of the budget. Because it is clear that for every billion you pull in – withdrawal, which Jagland is talking about – about. 3 000 Norwegian jobs. I wanted to tighten up with a much larger amount than what is now being decided on in the budget. How is it that Jagland, on the one hand, wants to absorb purchasing power, while at the same time he is anxious about the unemployment that, of course, grows the more you tighten up? How can you make this happen? Thirdly, Thorbjørn Jagland says he is anxious about the competitiveness of Norwegian working life. Yes, I can agree with that. Why, then, is it so imperative for the Workers' Party and Thorbjørn Jagland to raise the krone price, and then automatically get a deterioration in the competitiveness of Norwegian competitive business? If we strengthen the crown price, that means a deterioration in competitiveness. This is therefore not a matter of intervention either. How long does the Labour Party want to stand firm on the current monetary policy? And when Jagland talks about closer connection to the euro, does it mean – to repeat the question from the Prime Minister – that the Labour Party wants a fixed-rate policy, where CBS is to make support purchases of Norwegian krone for Norwegian account and Norwegian risk?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e299	After hearing the last two questions, I have to say that I hope the government does not use Carl I. Hagen as financial adviser. With regard to budgetary rigour, the clear view of the Workers' Party is that the most important thing is to bring interest down quickly. We could have cut any tightening and then let interest rates tighten, but then we had quickly had major problems in our working life. If we get hanged at a high interest rate for a very long time here in the country, it means that a lot of companies get costs that competitors don't have. This means that investing in Norway will not pay off. Therefore, it is important to bring the interest rate down as quickly as possible. Then it is better to tighten up now and get the interest rate down, and perhaps relax later when we have got it down. The opposite will, in our opinion, be completely wrong. But I understand that Carl I. Hagen stands for the vision he's doing, because he wants the market to take care of everything, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's what he's going to do, that's what he's going to do, that's what's going to be, that's what's going to be, So at the dollar rate. Hagen asks why it's imperative to raise the rate of charge. It's just to get the interest down. What Carl I. Hagen now stood here and said, it's not that dangerous if the crown price is at this low level. But the consequence of that is that interest rates remain high. It would be bad for the families, it would be bad for the companies, it would be bad for the state, and it would be bad for the municipalities. I hope, at least, that the budget-mates in the centre and the right do not agree with this reasoning of Carl I. Hagen. With regard to the cash support and any compromise there, we could have been shown if there had been real willingness to negotiate about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e310	When Igland left the government offices in the autumn of 1997 and left the door open afterwards, he complained about the lack of trust and control in Stortinget. In his speech to the National Assembly of the Workers' Party, he said that if he had not withdrawn from government responsibility, the Workers' Party would "be gradually driven into the accident. We had been blamed for the currency crisis and the interest rate increases. Finally, we had to go away in a humiliating way." I think this is pretty clarifying, because that's just how the Workers' Party has been perceived this whole autumn. The Labour Party has systematically tried to blame the Government of Bondevik for major problematic changes in the international economy, such as falling oil prices and unrest in the currency markets, which have created problems in the Norwegian economy. The end of this, according to Jagland’s reasoning, would be that Bondevik’s government had to humiliate itself. It is good that this comes out – everything has its explanation. So it's not about finding a budget solution, it's about government power, and they're almost successful. But the government came back -- yes, it's here already. [[laughs in the hall]] I also said at the National Assembly of the Workers' Party that the Workers' Party could waive much of what is important to us, as he said, in order to create a basis for a stable government. And that they were willing to drop a lot is obvious. But what stable rule is Jagland aiming for? What parliamentary clarification does Thorbjørn Jagland think he has been given since he can now clearly imagine himself back in the offices he left in the autumn of 1997 in frustration over the lack of support in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e319	If you're here, it's quite doubtful, because now the government parties have declared everything they stand for, except for the cash support. If you look at what they promised before the election, what's left? A new environmental policy was promised, opposed to the Labour Party's negotiating arrangements in Kyoto, but took over. The veterinary agreement and the Schengen Agreement were accepted – now you are willing to go along with it. All the financial promises to the municipalities, to transportation, to care for the elderly were stated. And I want to say this: I am absolutely convinced that if the Workers' Party had remained in the government offices, this policy of surrender continued. There can be no doubt about it. Now it is good that the government parties have come up with better thoughts, and do not see themselves able to implement these promises, because they simply cannot be implemented. Then one starts to owe oil prices, but in the election campaign Jens Stoltenberg, then Finance Minister, called Uncle Screw off people in this hall, was made by people who are in the government parties, so that he wouldn't spend any more oil money. We warned against basing our policies on high oil prices. Then you come here and you say you have to cut down because the oil price has fallen. As late as in the revised national budget there was a need for a slight tightening, but then the oil price was as low as it was at the end of August when the tightening became absolutely necessary, and in a much higher order of magnitude than what was being talked about in June. It's not more than six months since the Prime Minister stood on Halvorsbøle and said, "Everybody should get better in 1999. This was not right, and it has been shown that what he said has not turned on, and it was necessary that you actually see that you had to make priorities. The priorities have now been set, the cash support is above everything else, and there are many who have to suffer because of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e328	There were many of the same elements in this post from Thorbjørn Jagland as it was in his national meeting speech, and which, in my opinion, pointed to four very interesting and important areas that Norwegian policy should and must prioritise in the years to come. One of these areas was value creation, and it's nothing new that the Right Party and the Workers' Party have talked a lot about value creation in the years that have passed, and will do so. But it's not new either that when you start talking about what this means by practical political grips, there are also clear differences in what the Right recommends, and what the Workers' Party recommends. Thorbjørn Jagland's speech at the national meeting was not the only one, it was also a speech by Hill-Marta Solberg, and that speech is reflected in the proposals that the Workers' Party is now promoting. If you are so concerned about value creation in the Workers' Party, how is it that you are attacking the sharing model, that small and medium-sized enterprises are getting worse in terms of wealth taxes, that you are getting rid of shipping taxes? When you do this, this is a problem not only with the current financial burden it brings to businesses, but it also tells the companies that there will be ever new framework conditions in this country, which in itself is a problem, and thus the two talks beat each other in half. My question to Thorbjørn Jagland is whether he now realizes that these two talks have struck each other in half, and that when it comes to the practical everyday life, there is not so much value creation policy in any case in what the Workers' Party promotes to concrete voting here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e336	With regard to the proposals that the Workers' Party has been making for a very long time, and as we repeated at our national meeting, we can have discussions on this. I am aware that the Labour Party and the Right disagree there. But it's not that the Right has one phase and can say that our proposals are bad. How can you, for example, say that it is perfectly obvious that there should be special discounts for one type of share that allows you to manipulate your money and move money back and forth? Is it really so much beneficial for value creation – or is it more beneficial that you actually get a more equal tax on capital, so that capital goes where it's most productive? We might have a lot of discussions about that, but reading up a fasit in that area, I think it's rather doubtful. The same applies to the shipping tax and the split model. Otherwise, I want to add that there are two parties in the value creation of our country, that's capital and that's labour. If we do not have a reasonable distribution between the two, we do not get maximum value creation, and in the majority agreement here there are many proposals that are directly negative for the workers in our country, for example. to reduce deductions from the union quota, for example: reducing the sick pay scheme for part-time workers, which is particularly low-paid women. It will not be very well received. And when you're not willing to even look at the dirtholes in the tax system for the richest, I don't think there's any good cause for the creation of value in the country. But I think that at these points it could be possible to find reasonable compromises, where we had taken care of our interests and others could have taken care of other interests, and then you could have met in the middle. I think that would've been better for our country than this crash here.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e346	I would first ask the leader of the Labour Party to answer the question asked by Einar Steensnæs, and to which I believe very many in this Chamber are waiting for the answer, namely: What parliamentary and political basis does Thorbjørn Jagland think when he now so undisguisedly seeks government power? Otherwise, the leader of the Workers' Party gave a rather amicable description of the Norwegian economy. And if his judgment is as serious as he now expressed, then why has the Workers' Party not crossed two sticks to seek influence on this budget? Is it really the case that the aversion to an adopted reform overshadows all the other considerations, as he so vividly described in his article? The Labour Party leader criticises the budget compromise that has been achieved, criticises the parties that have been willing to take responsibility and brings the Storting out of a difficult budgetary situation. But when he criticises the central parties, I would like to ask: with what credibility does Thorbjørn Jagland criticise this budget agreement? Does not Thorbjørn Jagland himself see that through his undisguised will to meet Right in the whole spectrum of tax policy in reality he has effectively neutralised himself as a credible critic of the cooperation of other parties with the right?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e355	Item No 1: We did not intend to cooperate with the Progress Party as well. That's what the center parts have now done. In fact, they have faced the situation that Norway is the only country in Europe where a right-wing populist party has a significant influence over government policy. I think we're going to meet that. Then I would like to say the following: The situation was that the government had not managed a settlement on the state budget just a few days before the Stortinget was going to deal with the state budget here in this room. Of course, the Labour Party could not waive any responsibility if that situation arose that the five bourgeois parties could not agree on anything. We just couldn't do that. This does not mean that the Workers' Party is seeking a government crisis or is seeking government power, but we cannot have it this way in the country that we have a government that does not government. And you demand that the opposition should not be an opposition -- that's actually what you're asking for. It is requested that the Workers' Party should waive responsibility as an opposition party, while the fact was that the Government asked for a new course for the country. It must of course be that it was going to seek a solution to it from other parties than the party they were seeking to remove. I don't think you can have a parliamentary system where you don't have an opposition. The working party will seek to be an opposition. So we haven't had any of the agenda that Johan J. Jakobsen is trying to list up as an excuse for going to the step of cooperating with the Right Party and the Advance Party, which you saw as the big, ugly wolf before the election, and with which you accused the Workers' Party day after day of cooperating in some cases.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e362	If I may allow myself a little comment to Johan J. Jakobsen first, I must say I am surprised that the Central Party is so eager to leave the fatherhood of this right-wing policy to Jagland, and does not have such honor on behalf of being a government party itself, that they themselves will be responsible for the result that has been achieved. I don't think that's right, but I'm not going to start a father's case right now. I'm not involved, as everyone will understand. But what I want to challenge Jagland is how much right-wing policy the Workers' Party really wants for years to come. Igland presented a number of important challenges to Norwegian society. But is it really the right that is the Workers' Party's ally in getting into an economic policy that not only ensures a fall in interest rates but also puts the fight against unemployment first? I have not understood the Right Party and the Advance Party's policy in that way. Is it that in European policy the Right and the Workers' Party are to form the new Grand Coalition and to pursue an active European policy? Is it not the case that the Workers' Party has equal responsibility to safeguard the freedom of action we have outside the EU and to use it actively? Is it in cooperation with the Right to further develop the public sector, now as the Right and the Progress Party in very many municipalities where they have a majority, to put out tenders and to privatise care services at a very different rate than before? I thought some of the challenge over the next millennium was to further develop some of the bastions that actually social democracy has developed, for example. The unit school, and you don't do that by inviting the Right to more privatisation. I wonder: who is the Workers' Party ally in renewing policy into the next millennium? The Workers' Party has presented a stabilisation programme that is not a powerful challenge from the left to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e369	I think the Right Party and the Labour Party have one common interest, and that's keeping the economy in order and securing value creation in the country. Then we disagree on the distribution policy, but without order in the economy and value creation, we have nothing to distribute. We've seen that slowly in the last few months now. Then we just have to cut down. The most important thing right now is to sort out the economy and get interest down, and then we can argue about how to distribute the value creation that we get. I can say with great boldness – and I can also be proud of what the Workers' Party has stood for here – that we were willing to find solutions even with our old main opponents Right to get to exactly this, and we actually don't need anyone to blame. We don't have to blame anyone if we had come into such a situation that we must have done so, while the government parties must actually have the Labour Party to blame for cooperating with the Right Party and the Advance Party. And I can add: if it had become a solution with the Right and the Labour Party, we wouldn't need the Advance Party. I think it could have been a well as good solution as what we see now. So what's future here -- now it's actually important to take care of time. If we don't manage to fix the Norwegian economy quite quickly and get interest rates down in a very short time – and not throughout the year, as it's clear that the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister have ambition – I think we can get into a rather difficult situation, and then we won't have anything to argue about, except what cuts we're going to make.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e376	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e379	Let me first say that I see the answer that the Prime Minister gave to my reply was satisfactory. Of course, it is not crucial whether the Government comes back to the Storting in a big message or includes it in the revised national budget. I assume that the Government will provide the results of investigations and assessments on the consequences of a possible long-term low oil price in the revised national budget. So the prime minister said that some of the experiences from this fall were that next year you have to put some more strain in the negotiation process somewhat earlier. Yeah, I totally agree with that. But this is because of the unilateral government parties. At the stage of negotiations in the Finance Committee and the parliamentary leaders, the longest government parties were able to reach 1635 million in terms of taxes and levies. kr. That's the longest thing you didn't get anymore, that's where you stood. Then you should think from the normal negotiating position that there might have been another 10-15 pst. in addition to a final phase one at twelve. But then the hunter Thorbjørn Jagland showed up on stage last weekend. The hunter Thorbjørn Jagland showed that he was a wretched hunter, for a hunter who gets a trade on the gunpowder team does not shout and screams before he shoots, and scares the prey away. He shoots first, before you find out what's going on. But the hunter – almost the Indian hunter – Thorbjørn Jagland exclaimed that he also accepted that there should be no tax increases in any budgetary compromise with the Right. There is nothing strange he scared the wit of the exchange, exemplified by the facial expressions of the centre party leader Anne Enger Lahnstein on the screen. And after that weekend, the Prime Minister suddenly showed up on stage – for me first Monday night, but then he showed up, and on Tuesday we got an offer of $2,350 million. NOK 1635 million in tax relief, after all that was previously offered. kr. It turned out that all we had done in Stortinget at first was no more than approx. 35 pst. of what the Government was willing to go. Of course, this isn't right. The government was willing to go much further because Thorbjørn Jagland and the Workers' Party at their national meeting frightened the government. I'm glad, because the result has become living with. It has become so that we have zeroed out the tax and tax increases for the Norwegian people and satisfied a couple of other reasonable purposes. That's the situation. And once I've heard Thorbjørn Jagland here today, I'm very happy that it went as it went, because now I see that Thorbjørn Jagland is going down in terms of economics. It's okay to say that the government shouldn't take into account the advice that comes from me, but if he checks a little outside this room, look a little bit at what's written in e.g. Today's Business, Finance and Economic Affairs in the evening post, and listening to radio and TV, he'll see that the advice I'm giving now is more and more consistent with the current economist, with Øystein Noreng in the head, saying. Now it has been seen in practice that the reason for the fall in the krone price – and it was because of the fall in the krone price that Norway’s Bank set up the interest rate, as they are obliged to do after the workers’ party government gave them instructions on it in 1994 – is not necessarily Norwegian domestic economy and tightness and these things. After the budget agreement became known, the exchange rate has fallen slightly, even today. And the tiny difference between the rigour of the Workers' Party and what's here is completely insignificant in an economy of over a thousand billion dollars. It's because of international relations. Slowly, but surely, the consequences of the crisis in Asia come across Europe, and at the same time, the oil price has fallen. That's the reason. If I land instead of tightening up 9 billion kroner and removing 27,000 jobs would have turned on and maybe tightened up by 15 billion kroner, the immediate price would have gone up. Then, in the case of the Workers' Party and Jagland, the cynical use of unemployment as an instrument of economic policy and, knowingly, drive up unemployment to push salaries downwards in order to possibly improve competitiveness. It is dramatic how little of these economic relationships as Thorbjørn Jagland – I don’t want to say and the Workers’ Party, but Thorbjørn Jagland – demonstrated that he understands. Check with part of the leading economists! Now you're worried about too much tightening up, and it's proven that it's primarily the oil price and international conditions that make the crown under pressure. The best thing to do is to leave the crown where it is today. Norway’s Bank would then be able to reduce the interest rate. A high level of interest rates is politically determined in this country by all parties other than the Progress Party in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e395	The President is in doubt about the characterisation of the representative, Mr Jagland, as 'I am', parliamentary, even though 'government hunt' is a parliamentaryly accepted expression. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e400	I noticed that the president allowed Hagen to call the Government a 'change'. I guess that's how you see it. To be honest, isn't it a little unworthy that the national assembly of the Workers' Party should be the reason for all the parties' actions? Now you have to start taking responsibility for your own actions. I think you have to do that pretty fast. You can wait for Christmas, maybe, but after that time you probably have to stand on your own. Then I want to quote what John I. Alvheim said in the throne debate: ‘What has upset me most in the present state budget is the proposal to extend the implementation of the older package by two years. This proposal shows that there is a long way between life and learning from this government in caring for weak groups in society. Click-Drag to move the selected pixels to another location. The elderly do not have time to wait another two years for better and dignified care. The elderly sick actually have little time; hundreds of sick elderly people will actually die in these two years without experiencing an organized, dignified and respectful evening of life on the part of society...». This is absolutely right. This is why the Workers' Party is moving towards moving older investment by two years. We also go against it for moral reasons. There is nothing this big business has committed more than to do something for the elderly. In an election campaign after an election campaign, you have run on this. And then you put in investments in the care of the elderly, where, for the rest, many parties wanted more, but it became unanimity. The first thing you do is you forget what you promised and what you've had at the top of the agenda this year after year. Now the Progress Party has also forgotten what John Alvheim said in the persuasion debate, because the conciliation actually means pushing on the older investments for two years. How can Carl I. Hagen, who has been at the forefront of this, be involved in the care of the elderly this year after year?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e415	Had it been parliamentary, I should almost have said: No, but Thorbjørn, then! - But I can't say. Firstly, I think that Thorbjørn Jagland and the Workers' Party should be honoured for the influence that the National Labour Party's National Assembly has had on the development of the budgetary procedure last weekend. It's confirmed, not just by me. Johan J. Jakobsen and others, who are at least actors on the part of the government parties, confirm this. And the logic implies – once you have reached 80 pst. through a round of negotiations and has given only 35 pst. Of what you're really willing to do, but then, after this happened, more than doubled what you'd already be willing to give: what kind of pay negotiations would it have been? There I think that Jagland could talk to the guy who called him "the boy," Yngve Högsensen, and get some training in processes. It was the National Assembly of the Workers' Party that made the Government of the Prime Minister offer much more. Then to the older reform. If the representative, Mr Jagland, looks at page 22 of the budget position, he will find the answer. There is no difference in the aid schemes for the construction of new nursing homes and homes for the elderly. There are grant schemes based on then and so many dollars per. space upon completion or by planning. It depends on the municipalities – the extent to which the municipalities themselves have the power to obtain plots, contractors and start building and staffing. And there it is that Igland will give them four years. But now it says in this setting – because we are much nicer to the municipalities because we take this seriously – the following: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Workers’ Party and the Socialist Left, assumes that municipalities which do not benefit from investment aid for the older reform within the initial 4 years may receive investment aid for a further 2 years. Any change in the allocation needs shall be addressed in the revised national budget.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e427	The financial debate is now coming to an end. Actually, this is a debate that has not been affected by the strong results, and much of the time has actually affected approx. 1 pst. of the budget. What I am very pleased about at least is that, in what has been presented by the Government, we have been able to support an increase in health, in rural development, in a better family policy economy, and that there has been a greater focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. But the common task for all of us is to contribute to getting a lower interest rate, which will mean a lot for households, for municipalities and businesses. There is no real doubt that there is a significant gap between the Government and the Advance Party in economic policy, including in this budgetary procedure. In spite of this, the Government has succeeded in securing a majority of its main priorities together with the Advance Party and the Right. The leader of the Progress Party, both before and after the presentation of the budget to the Bondevik Government, has contributed to avoiding crisis maximisation and clearly signalled the willingness to negotiate in order to secure a majority vote for a reunited budget. This is very positive in a time of pressure on the Norwegian krona. The party of progress here today has argued that it is difficult to find the exact level of tightening, and that this tightening really does not mean the whole world. Can the representative Hagen now say a little about how he views the tightness of fiscal policy in monetary policy based on an inflation target? What is more, is not the Progress Party concerned that there is a limit to the tightness of public budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e434	During this very friendly line I began to wonder if there was any question, or if I just had to stand here and blush over all the rose. So it was good that it came. I have to shoot in here that after this financial debate, I am looking forward to a meeting next year's municipal election campaign. I've had some bad experience in the past when it comes to attacks from the Center Party and the Christian People's Party in election campaigns. Now it's almost a little bit reverse after all that's been said. But to the question: the most important thing to achieve with a changed monetary policy was that any frequent and sudden fluctuations in the exchange rate, which would primarily be due to external economic conditions, with the oil price as the sovereign most important, would only affect a number of larger companies that are well managed and managed and organised to deal with uncertainty and changes in commodity prices and exchange rates, while interest rates would be stable over a long period of time, would have small changes, and not large and abrupt. And that only affects businesses, municipalities and ordinary individuals. They would have the advantage of much more predictable interest rates. But, of course, fiscal policy will also be crucial. If, year after year, fiscal policy, not for months, but for a long, long time, was irresponsible at the fact that government budgets were settled with significant deficits, it would clearly have an impact on interest rates. However, when comparing the two systems today, more and more economists also claim that in a small country like Norway, which is so oil-exposed and has such a variable and now low oil price, this will affect ordinary people, common municipalities and businesses instead of experts who are suitable and qualified to deal with it. But financial policy will also be important, but it has never been as important as anyone in this room thinks it is.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e443	Hagen is just as unpredictable as oil prices, we can safely see that. And his rhetoric also varies with the oil prices. Today he has preferred to talk about history, and it is not so strange when the primary budget of the Progress Party has more than NOK 6 billion in unspecified cuts. Usually when Hagen speaks, I remember the king of the sun in Versailles and his statement: after us comes the flood. Because Hagen doesn't say that, but we say that. The flood comes — a flood of old age pensioners, precious ones, coming around 2010, at the time when Hagen has also become a retired person. For Hagen’s unforeseeable economic issues, it shows that their policy lacks a long-term perspective and appeals to greed and egoism in good times. And then he talks about history now that oil prices are low. Hagen is a charismatic politician who speaks to people's hearts and stomachs to the extent that they disable the brain. Last year, when oil prices were high, ‘Norway had won Lotto’. Yes, I imagine the Lotto commercial, I, with the puddle-cut sheep. It wasn't exactly Norway we wanted. Before this spring's precious paycheck, Hagen said: Stand by the requirements, you deserve this! Yes, we have now received a costly salary settlement. Our competitive industry did not tolerate it, the municipalities are struggling with it, so Hagen is actually a bit co-responsive that we have some problems today. So I ask Hagen, can we now expect some more predictability in the policy of the Progress Party? Can we expect the Progress Party to take seriously that those who come after us will also have a safe everyday life, or will the welfare state be built down after the Hagen era?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e454	Let me first make it clear that we have not fully taken over yet as regards the implementation of the entire policy of the Progress Party. It's still a question of a certain time before we do it. So Mrs. Stolt-Nielsen said that in 2010, Hagen is also a pensioner. I understand that the Right wants it, but it is not possible to be so optimistic. I'm still a man in my best age in 2010. Then she's been on an adventure course at Thorbjørn Jagland. What I said last year – and I've tried to tell Thorbjørn Jagland several times, but he later doesn't hear it, but I can try one more time – is that of the extraordinary unbudgeted revenue in 1997 at NOK 12 billion – not the ordinary, large amount, because I totally agree with that, that's what we normally have to put in – we could spend 3.5 billion on health care equipment, on police and on IT equipment in our schools. I still think it would make a lot of sense to use the exact little bit of it. We've been talking and being predictable all along. As far as monetary policy is concerned, we have been talking for years about what we have done, and also about wage settlement. We still believe – we haven’t gone back on it – that it was deserved that the Norwegian people got a good pay settlement. They had shown moderation through the solidarity option over many years. And then, when things went so far, that even the Workers' Party, which was previously normally occupied with jobs, said that we now had to take care to remove 10,000 – 20,000 – 30,000 jobs in Norway, it was quite natural that ordinary people also got a good pay settlement. So we've been predictable. Unspecified cut was mentioned. We have distributed our entire specified cut list down to the nearest post and chapter and small amounts to the others in the committee. I have heard that Børge Brende and others have not been able to read it in particular in the context. But that's Right's problem and not ours.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e465	Carl I. Hagen must be the worst negotiator in Norway history. There hasn't been a TV show in ten years where Carl I. Hagen hasn't talked about the old and the sick and the disabled. Then he comes for the first time in his party's history in the power position that he can do something for the benefit of the groups he's talked about, and then he doesn't achieve the things of the world. That's not what the parties have in their like budgets that matters, not even what is in the party programmes. What matters is what the parties put on the agenda on the day they have the power to implement some of it. And Carl I. Hagen now had the power that was in that Bondevik government would take almost everything Right and the Advance Party came with to survive. And what did Carl I. Hagen bring? Lower top taxes, lower capital taxes, lower shipowners' taxes and all other forms of tax relief for the most well-off, to such an extent that today's industry summarized this on Saturday as a tax haven for the richest of Bondevik. But it was Carl I. Hagen and Jan Petersen who demanded this from Bondevik. Bondevik did anything to survive. But the Bondevik government would much rather have been allowed to do something for the sick, the old and the disabled to survive than carry out the tax reliefs that Carl I. Hagen forced on them to survive. Since I will not in any way doubt that the Progress Party has a real commitment to just the weak and uplifting groups in Norwegian society, the conclusion must be that more miserable negotiators have never seen Norway's history.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e474	That was violent! I assume that the reason for this strong criticism of our negotiating arrangements and what we have achieved is that we will give some balance to all the good things we have received from the SV's former good partners, the Center Party, and partly from the Christian People's Party. We can live with the fact that Erik Solheim doesn't think we've done such a good job. In fact, I have not expected the possibility of having Erik Solheim's vote in municipal elections or big shots to be very great. But it's more interesting what they think outside this house, and then I'll be allowed to tell you that one of the things we've been getting the most enquiries about since last year is that the special deduction for the elderly then went down, because both Bondevik and Jagland suggested it. It has been corrected again for 1999 through the efforts of the Right and the Advance Party. We have increased input-based funding in the healthcare sector, i.e., the price financing, from 45 p.m. to 50 pst. That's what hospital directors say is the most important thing to increase treatment capacity. As is known, the majority of those who also need hospital treatment are elderly. In the case of the older reform, all the arrangements are maintained from the time it was adopted last year in respect of the crowns for investment grants per year. new place. We did not receive operating grants, because we did not receive support from SV last year, so we did not raise this issue this year. But it is our long-term goal to also get an operating grant from the state. But all investment grants per year. place is exactly the same, and the Government has committed itself to looking at the need for funding, as an estimate during the treatment of the revised national budget. If there are any municipalities that can't reach land, buildings or personnel within this four-year period, we won't punish them if they arrive a year or two later. It's a dramatic improvement. We have been involved in securing the holiday of the government. There is therefore no reduction of 0.30 pst., which was what was mentioned by the Bondevik administration, in the social security settlement for the spring. We're happy with this.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e483	What's a fact is that Carl I. Hagen, year after year, in the election campaign after election, used the situation in the care of the elderly, and when the riots were there, he was the foremost person to propose appropriations to invest in the care of the elderly. What's actually happening today is that Carl I. Hagen has set aside Alvheim's statements from the throne debate. The Progress Party itself contributed money into its alternative state budget to implement the investment in the care of the elderly as planned, as did the Workers' Party. The Labour Party and the Advance Party were in complete agreement. Then he will explain the budgetary agreement. Then he starts talking like a bureaucrat, then there are references to a lot – and readings. I've never heard Carl I. Hagen read up that way from the Greatness's pulpit. They push some municipalities in front of them to push on this older investment. So here, Carl I. Hagen has given up his most important case over ten years. I remember when the elderly reform was dealt with here in Stortinget last year. Then Carl I. Hagen really wanted more money into the care of the elderly. When the Labour Party government presented its plan, for example: Alvheim on the radio and said he had to have many more billions than what we proposed. Now the Progress Party is not even willing to participate in the implementation of what was unanimously adopted by the Stortinget, while a number of other things are being carried out. I do not think what the Progress Party has done is credible. We just have to bear in mind that the Progress Party has used the care of the elderly to raise awareness of the Progress Party, not to implement anything for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e494	This is starting to become a little hopeless. I'm starting to get a little sense of Gro Harlem Brundtland who said that those who are going to lead positions in the Workers' Party's big group should go on course and learn some elementary thinking in this house. These things are estimates. It is the rate of grant for investment in new health homes that controls the amount of money that will be spent. It is not chapters and posts that are being stopped because there is no more money left. And if that was the case with maybe some of these elements, it says in the note I read that ‘Any change in the allocation needs is included in the Revised National Budget’. That's the same thing as sick pay. The payment of sick pay in 1999 depends on how much people are sick! It is a purely imputed grant. It is a right that municipalities have been given in the older reform, which is correct, which has been unanimously approved in connection with the processing of a wholesale notification. The need for money will come as municipalities exercise their right to invest. It's the same thing as Hill-Marta Solberg doesn't understand this with kindergartens. There's an operating grant per. day-care centre, in the same way as the sickness allowance and the unemployment allowance. We do not know how much money the bureaucrats have calculated or believe will go along with, and we have a legal obligation in the Storting to grant what is necessary based on these rights. And that's what we've achieved and been made clear through these negotiations. In addition, I would like to mention that in the case of the elderly reform, we have worked hard – and this is what we are going to do in the municipalities – for the freedom of choice for the elderly, so that if private companies and organisations can produce the elderly care services better and more reasonably, the elderly will also have the option and not only will the municipal monopoly machine be pushed where they stand by their hand and have no choice or complaints.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e503	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e506	It is said that when the end is good, everything is good, and that is probably why, in Norwegian political debate, you are now breathing out a little and trying to sum up what has happened. It's in this way a debate today that doesn't have all the world's temperature, but it doesn't have to make us try not to see what this harvest really has been like. Because even though we now reached a solution, it has to be clear that it was pretty close. There were significant political problems that had to be solved, and they were not resolved until the last minute. The right has helped to achieve a result that we can have: a contribution to a lower interest rate, a lower price increase and a moderate salary settlement to spring. It's not an ideal result, but based on a gi and ta situation, a result that's good enough for us to give it our subsidiary voice. There is no doubt that this budget has now moved significantly to the right in relation to the proposal presented by the Bondevik Government. In a tightening budget, we have tightened the expenditure side, and there has been zero increase in the tax and tax burden. And within this zero idea, it has been possible to find space for some important things, such as: restoring the special deduction for pensioners, to which Hagen is quite right, is one of the single elements that we have received the most requests during the last year. This has now been put in place. At the same time, important changes were also made to the expenditure side, for example: that the police and officers' seat has a significantly strengthened effort, and I think that is most necessary now that people's concern for violent crime across the country is to touch and feel. We have had a significant restoration of the defence budget, but of course that is what we would have liked to have done further. I'm not hiding for a moment that this budget, for example. should be better in terms of roads, which are important for all parts of the country, both the districts and the central strata, and I think it's a challenge that we have to signal that we will not in any way go aside. Now I hear that representatives of the government parties say that there are some parts of this budget that are also clear center profiles, and that is mentioned among other things. health and small businesses. I'm glad this is the center business, but I have to say that it's the center business too, because health issues and small businesses also belong to the Right core business. There's nothing special about the center. But in addition to this last move of money that has been made, and which I have now mentioned a little, there are also important proposals relating to how the Norwegian economy works, how the state budget works. The proposals on the listing and sub-privatisation of Telenor and the sale of shares in Arcus, proposals on opportunities for private involvement in road construction and more input-driven financing are important proposals that will change the way we use the funds allocated, and proposals that carry in a clear, correct direction from the Right’s point of view. But if we now came up with a result that's right in its content, we have to innovate anyway that the process itself did this in, in no way was satisfactory. There has been too much uncertainty, too much fambling and too much mess in this process, and so it was in the very last seconds that the big movements happened. It should have been a real dialogue even before the budget was presented. Then you might have avoided attacking the issues and profiles that are important to the Right. And I wonder when it was so simple for the Prime Minister to say that the natural tax compromise was just the zero point, why it was then to go months before that recognition entered the government building. Because it was not easy to get that recognition, and it was not lacking in representatives, it was here in the house or outside commentators who thought that it was a completely unreasonable claim that the Right was being promoted and stood on for many months. So now it's defined as a natural compromise point by the Prime Minister, and I agree with that. But it didn't have to take that long before the confession was there. When this was an important point for us, it was of course because these large tax increases would affect families and businesses that were already affected by the large interest rate increase and would also be affected by a price increase in addition to what our trading partners would get. It was a tax and tax increase that could fire up during the price increase and thus counteract a moderate wage settlement. And that would be a problem for business and therefore also attack value creation. At the same time, it would indicate that in this country not many framework conditions remain. That's why it was necessary to put hard on this particular point. I am glad that the Prime Minister has today suggested that there are at least things to learn from this process. I hope we can draw that lesson over the year, so that we get a process that gets more streamlined to next year. Because what's left is that block independence has been phased out. And if there's going to be long-term solutions, the government should also on later occasions go the same way. Then there is no contribution if you also next time make it highly problematic. Then it is necessary to say that in one more area the government's draft budget has been a disappointment. And I'm not hiding that I think it's a disappointment that this proposal in many ways lacks vision and thought beyond the immediate. It seems that the ambitions have been to move back to the start, in short, to do something about the interest rate increase that has occurred while the Government has been sitting there. Yes, I have to say that in the case of visions, it was actually more to pick up in the Thorbjørn Jagland national meeting speech than in this budget. Now the areas mentioned by Jagland in their national meeting speech are areas that Right has been talking about for years: modernisation, value creation, education and Europe. And especially with regard to the first three areas, it must nevertheless be said that when we come up with concrete policies, the Right Party and the Labour Party have always separated layers in the way we want to do it. I mentioned value creation instead. The modernisation area is equally obvious. If you remember the debate on telecommunications services in Norway, it was the Right that lay in front and the Workers' Party in a sort of middle field, with SV and especially the Center Party at the back. There are clear differences, and anyone who has attended a privatisation conference under the auspices of the Local Government will know that the differences are quite significant. But then there's one area where the access points are obvious, and it's about the European issues. And now I'm not talking about membership in any way, but it's clear that in a Europe that's evolving, there will be new opportunities and new issues that arise. And what's my concern on behalf of the country is whether the government is capable of the strategic thinking in relation to Europe that we should have. In short, is it possible to seize the opportunities offered by today's political framework? I'm actually a little bit in doubt about it. And when I've seen the Minister of Culture comment on Schengen, I'm very much in doubt about it. When I heard an opinion on Schengen, I was at least in doubt as to whether it is the Government that is negotiating the Schengen Agreement. It seems like there's a sort of group of private diplomats trying to find a result, and then the government is really excited about what they're finally coming up with – whether or not that's something you can accept. But it's not like that. It is the government that negotiates on behalf of Norway, and if the government gets a result that they accept, and does not continue the negotiations to get it even better, yes, then it is the government that has spoken, and then it must be clear, for our counter-debt, that the government will also say yes in relation to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e535	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e539	When the State budget was presented, the Right set itself to zero out the tax increases proposed by the Government. And in some areas it made sense, not least in a value creation perspective. Now, when we look at the financial situation, we see that the Right has succeeded far in the way. It is probably more than I believe that the representative Hagen and the Progress Party are so passionate about the authority represented by this Government that the Progress Party hardly posed any threat to the Government and the existence of the Government. But it did right, and so did the results. When I, for my part, have to make these congratulations on a number of reservations, it is partly because there are quite essential elements in the Higher Tax Policy that I far from agree with. Among other things, the country's trade union organization has been honoured with a tax tightening in connection with this compromise. Equally important, of course, are the costs on the part of local authorities on the preparedness for the unemployment that can well be achieved, for solidarity with our international neighbourhoods through the Eastern Europe programme. But first of all, the Right helps to rock a government where stability is not the most important factor. Therefore, I would like to hear if the Right Leader has any thoughts about how we are going to increase the stability of the political everyday life that meets us right over Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e548	Let me first say that I'm very pleased that Tom Thoresen referred to the Right zero-tax increase line as reasonable from the point of view of value creation. That was my point in the line in relation to Thorbjørn Jagland. I guess I also see the national meeting there that if there had been a need for a crisis solution in the country, it would not have been these points that would prevent the arrival in that case. I believe in many ways the Workers' Party has also seen that under this so-called distribution sign, there are some things that do not work well in terms of creating values that the Workers' Party has also emphasized. That's the one. The second – which I will not go into very much – is to comment on whether the Progress Party has posed a threat to the Government while we were in negotiations. We've all seen the negotiation game relatively openly, and I know Carl I. Hagen right, he'll always be able to comment when he's going to take the word after me. All I want to say is that we had a completely different strategy for how to move forward. I remember very well that there was a debate with Carl I. Hagen in the 'Centre' on TV2 a couple of weeks ago, and if I'm going to be allowed to wish something for Christmas, it's to be allowed to see that debate again. So a little bit about stability. My whole point is that the government just in order to get stability should look to the same side, simply to get the long-termity and coherence of the political solutions being sought. I believe that the Right Party and the Advance Party together have significantly shifted the budget in the right direction. If the government has taken that point and moved in the same direction later, there will be coherence in the policy solutions over time, and that will contribute to stability. But it is primarily the government that has to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e557	First, my compliment to Jan Petersen to turn the order in the lineword shift, so that I, who will come with lines and questions to him, must first begin by answering questions put by him in the answer to a previous line. I'm happy to bring up Per Ståle Wohnung if it's possible to get a copy of that center program and center debate, so that I – and also Per Ståle Wohnning – can have a real gift for Jan Petersen for Christmas, so he knows what to sit on and watch his video player. Then I have the following question: I have followed this courtship between the Workers' Party and the Right, which is the heart's agreement on the value creation, but they say they disagree on the distribution. How, then, would the Labour Party and the Right agree on the tax system and the tax decisions? As far as I have understood the Workers' Party, tax policy is primarily distribution policy, so there I have some problems seeing how to proceed. It is precisely the distribution policy that is the most important thing for the Workers' Party in fiscal policy, it is not the creation of value. I was wondering if Mr. Petersen had some thoughts in that way, how he could see that he agreed with the Workers' Party to increase the shipping tax and change the sharing model for small businesses etc. to agree on fiscal policy. However, I would also like to ask what the Prime Minister has not asked Jagland about – and we have not yet received an answer from the Workers' Party – because there is a right-wing agreement, namely with regard to closer connection and contact with the euro. Is there a right in favour of a reintroducing the fixed-rate policy from before 1992, with a kind of agreement that the European Central Bank should be obliged to make the buying-in of crowns if it came to a lower part of this fixed-rate framework? And how much is the Right then willing to risk? I assume that Petersen is familiar with the fact that if you had to pay any loss to speculators after you had invested 50 – 60 – 100 billion kroner, the loss of course, net loss of the in vain defense, would be a burden on Norway. It would not be taken by the European Central Bank. What is the meaning of the word ‘closer link’?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e568	The President will state that he thought it was something early to start giving Christmas gifts when we have barely come into the Advent season!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e571	On the contrary, I think it became a very pleasant tone, which we could well hold on to. If I get to say something I have actually felt the need to say, it is that I want to compliment all the four parties we negotiated, for how quickly it was possible to come to a solution when we finally started these negotiations after months of frustration, and how good the atmosphere was. I think that in many ways also remains after this process we have been through, so that my criticism of the process is about what happened up to the moment when it was finally listened to what we said and had said clearly for many months. It would not have been possible to do such a great grip if not all of them had been willing to go into it at the end. Now Hagen asked how we were going to reach any agreement with the Workers' Party. It assumes that there had been negotiations, and that, of course, has not been. Let me make my position quite clear: throughout this process I have said that I wanted to reach agreement on the budget with the sitting government, but there are limits to what we can vote for in terms of content, and that limit we would not go over. That's the message that was given for months. The question that arose then was, what happens if there is no agreement? It was when we had to see if it was possible to find some sort of crisis solution, and I thought it was nice of Jagland to come up with the possibility of a crisis solution. He also said very clearly at the national meeting that he was willing to add some of his principles to this. So a little bit about the last question, the central bank. Let me just show you that there are just these conditions we're going to investigate in more detail. The NHO and the Banking Association agree with this, and I'll probably believe... I'm sorry, I'll get back to this later. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e586	We had an interesting exchange of lines this morning between Børge Brende from the Right and Siv Jensen from the Advance Party. After a short while thanking Siv Jensen for a good cooperation in the budget negotiations, a committed Børge Burnde went almost in the throat of Siv Jensen because the Progress Party has cut NOK 30 billion to finance various tax concessions. As he said, the party of progress thus cuts the ‘life’ nerve in what he called ‘our future well-being’. Then it may be random that the first thing he exemplifies with is opera – it can be related to other things too, of course. Then he mentions aid, school, research and education. So there's a limit in the Right for tax bills, but this limit can't possibly go at the $6 billion in tax bills that the Right suggested in its alternative budget. Because it is clear that aid is cut by DKK 7.7 billion, cultural purposes are cut by DKK 1.8 billion and education aid is cut by DKK 7.2 billion. I'm going to claim for my part that right here is just entering into and kissing important life's nerves in the welfare community to finance their tax reliefs, and I'm going to ask Petersen to agree with Børge Burnde that it is important to safeguard basic welfare services in society? How will Petersen comment on the obvious lack of coherence there is between the concerns of the Right's fiscal spokesman on behalf of the welfare community and the Right's actual proposal in its alternative budget?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e596	That there is a significant difference between the Right Party and the Advance Party's arrangements is quite clear, and that was the background for the change of lines this morning. We are dealing with the state budget in a completely different way from what the Progress Party did in its primary proposal. With regard to our primary proposal, it is true that there are tax cuts in this at NOK 2.3 billion, but there are also other important elements in it, and it is a redistribution towards the core tasks. I would like to point out quite thick lines that there are a good deal of important tasks in the Norwegian community that are not handled well enough. It's about health, it's about education and research, it's about road construction, the fight against crime and the defence. And precisely in order to get money both for these core tasks and for tax reliefs, we need to make quite significant redeployments within the budget, while at the same time making changes in the way the economy works. When we commit privatisation and service outsourcing as important elements of our proposal, it is precisely to create space for these core tasks. And when we focus on these core tasks, I'm not a moment in doubt that what we're actually prioritizing is the most important welfare tasks that public authorities should do. I believe that one of the main challenges today is to ensure that resources are not spread so much beyond all possible areas of society that not enough is done in these core areas. That's what's the idea and the idea behind the priorities we've done. When it comes to the compromise we have reached with the government parties, it is an attempt to keep as much of this thinking as possible in the compromise, and there we must give and take.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e603	I feel almost like an intruder in this touching agreement between the conciliators and the cosperate that has been here, but it costs me very little to congratulate Jan Petersen on the budget of the autumn. There is no doubt that the Right appears to be the budget winner, although I must say that the policy that came out of the budgetary agreement has no basis for congratulating Petersen. There were two questions I thought Jan Petersen might be interested in answering. Firstly, he stressed in his statement that other forms of cooperation had to be found between the five settlement parties that are now the majority of the state budget. My question is, what is Jan Petersen really thinking about? Does he realize that the Right is going into the government? Is that what he means? Has the Right now started a long-term work to get into the government and form a more stable part of the current bourgeois government? Is that what you are thinking, or is it just talking about the budget in advance? That's the one. It could lead to a rather interesting parliamentary situation if the Right actually and actively believes that now a budget has been aged so much that you no longer want to sit in the hall, but you want to go all the way into the corridors. It might have been interesting to hear Jan Petersen's assessment of. The second is a follow-up by Mr. Hagen's question. When the Labour Party and the Right now talk about deeper integration with the EU, and also talk about the euro, it is a very confusing debate. No parties in this Chamber have been taking part in the membership debate for the entire majority period. What are we going to have a deeper integration into, and what kind of connection are we really talking about in relation to the euro? What we know is that we're not a member. We cannot become members of economic and monetary union – thank you and price. But what are we going to have? If there's a support purchase agreement, we're going to go to the European Central Bank and ask them to buy Norwegian kroner in a pressed situation where we're actually going to have to pay the bill afterwards, or what do you think? Or is it the Right Party and the Workers' Party now starting – what Jan Petersen is now starting, since it is Jan Petersen I am now challenging – a long-term debate to raise the question of membership again through a cunning way of promoting a position, talking about a deeper integration, and talking about a strategic dialogue?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e612	I understand that SV from his point of view does not feel any need to congratulate Right on the political content of this budget compromise. I understand. We disagree on some fundamental issues. I have warned SV in the past not to believe that you can treasure yourself for wealth in this country. It's in a lot of ways some of the thought that's behind it. We also understand that the priority areas we give are by no means the areas of the SV. So there we just get to say that we disagree. So the question is, what do I see when it comes to cooperation in the future? To that I would say that we have had a big problem with getting the budget in place this autumn, partly because the government has not been willing to listen in time. The fact that it first went up for the members of the Government, after the Prime Minister's statement, after what we've seen in the press, around the last weekend what we've been trying to say to them for months, I think it's worrying. The ability to listen should be better. My message goes in two directions. I have not raised the question of neither government expansion nor being part of the government's parliamentary basis. But I have pointed out a few facts, namely that later on it is a significant advantage to be discussed through the issues, so that we do not face as huge problems as we had this autumn. Remember, there were many billions of dollars that had to be moved on, and that was moved on, and it's almost a miracle that this process went as well as it did in the few days. That's just the kind of thinking I'm now at first willing to test out. What that in turn will lead to, I think the future will show. These are interesting leads, including: from Sponheim and Steensnæs, which they may have some problems putting meat and blood on, but it is possible that it will come later. Then I'm going to try to answer in a three-minute later on the question of currency regime and EU membership, but I can rest assured that there is something on my own, the proposal that is now being promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e625	It is quite right that the Right has achieved a great deal through the budgetary agreement that has been reached. On the right, all the tax increases were eliminated, and they were passed on to large-scale expenditure reductions in many areas. This applies, inter alia, to: the municipal sector, in the case of the school holiday scheme, in the case of labour market measures. But this also applies to items that were previously important to the Right, for example: The efforts for Eastern Europe, which have been dramatically reduced, and Norway’s efforts for nuclear safety and environmental protection in Kola. Also there are now extensive cuts after the agreement between the government parties and the right. There is every reason to congratulate the Right on the steadfastness and strength of the negotiations, but there are many of us who reserve us against the content of the agreement. So I also need to reserve myself for another consideration that several speakers have had in the change of line. It is that the Workers' Party, with its tax arrangements, is concerned with distribution, not value creation. It's not our assessment of our tax treatment. Our assessment of our tax regime is that it contributes both to better distribution and more value creation. This is due to the simple and basic characteristics of our tax system, which should be a characteristic of any tax system intended to promote value creation in a market economy, that it treats different activities and different types of capital in a non-discriminatory way. The problems with the loopholes in the sharing model, the problems with the shipping tax and the problem with the stock discount are precisely that different businesses are treated differently, and that we get holes that make it easy to adapt, such as: Some of our leading tax experts at the School of Commerce think is causing major problems because capital does not go where it yields the most return. In fact, we believe that there are gaps in the tax system, among other things. by tidying up the divisional model, we get a better tax system even when it comes to value creation. In concrete terms, we need the split model to continue to secure 28 pst. taxes on entrepreneurial income and capital.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e641	This is becoming a serious complicated debate. Stoltenberg responded to me, but what he really did was answer my reply to Jagland instead. I can so far see that there is a need to fill in a little bit of the argument, but I will insist that when the elements mentioned by Stoltenberg are not good value creation policies, it is first of all because they are an attack on small businesses in Norway, which are important for value creation across the country. Small Business Norway needs a policy from Stortinget that gives them good conditions. And the second, as far as the maritime industries are concerned, I think it's very important that they know that there's something called stable framework conditions in this country. This will be countered by the Labour Party's proposals. So although many elements of the Labour Party's tax policy can certainly be defended from a value creation point of view, these are quite obvious problem areas that are just countering this. But that's what we were going through in a previous line change. So two more elements. Jens Stoltenberg said that this proposal was an attack on the municipal sector. It's definitely not. The local government sector will be very successful with the proposal that has been put forward here, and it will be particularly successful when this proposal contributes to a lower price increase, a moderate wage settlement and, as far as Norway is concerned, a fall in interest rates, which will amount to 400 million. kr for each percentage point it goes down. So this is good for Kommune-Norway. As far as Eastern Europe is concerned, I should have liked to have seen another result. I had hoped that the government would also accept several of our containment proposals, but not everything can be achieved in such negotiations. I would like to stress that when it has been possible to cut here, it is because the use of the money is going very, very slowly, and that we are far on the way with the commitment powers that are in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e650	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e653	When the government put forward the state budget, it had built up a significant height of fall to both of the sides it was possible to cooperate with to get the budget into port. After it has now used this height of fall almost completely, there may be reason to analyse a little why and how it happened. It became relatively early in this process that the Government’s own desire was to get a solution with both the Right Party and the Advance Party. The reason why it was not possible to find a solution with the Workers' Party during the negotiation phase 1 was that the Government put the ultimatum in one of the many cases that depend on previous deposit decisions, namely the cash support. It was a political choice, but when the elections were made, the government parties did not make it very easy for themselves. No solution was found before, among other things. Jan Petersen has called five to twelve. It must probably mean that the concessions made by the government parties would not then give in normal negotiations in the Stortinget were considered to be so far from the centre profile that it was problematic to satisfy them. Now they're fulfilled. Then a new phenomenon arises. This is probably politically unpleasant. This must therefore be presented as not having the two interlocutors helping to get the budget into port, but the government parties themselves were in a forced situation. This coercion situation has been called the Workers' Party, and in particular the National Assembly of the Workers' Party and the head of the Workers' Party. I doubt whether this is an explanation. In fact, I also doubt whether it is holding as a passover. Firstly, this possible threat picture rested first on the Workers' Party being on government hunts. As a possible member of the hunting team, I would say that some hunt would not be involved, only in the case you would have to kill some damage. What the Workers' Party said, and what the Workers' Party thought, was that in a situation where the Government and their elected interlocutors in the Stortinget were unable to reach an agreement, so that a chaotic situation arose around the state budget, the Workers' Party would not be unwilling to choose untraditional cooperation to avoid a crisis. Anyone who wanted to hear a message other than this from the National Labour Party meeting needed another political message from the National Labour Party meeting and interpreted according to it. Then comes explanation no. 2, and that is that the Workers' Party was not willing to take the Government's proposals for tax increases in the form they had proposed. Then you might as well use the proposals of the Right and the Advance Party for tax increases. It is then a choice of the tax arrangement of the Right and the Advance Party, and a choice of the cut top to the Right and the Advance Party to make it go up. This does not taste much of analysis, but a number of explanations.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e666	This autumn, the Stortinget has been fully aware that the new budgetary regulation provides a demanding framework for the budgetary procedure of the Stortinget. Nevertheless, when it was possible to clarify next year's government budget before the financial debate, it is due to the fact that five parties, through negotiations, have shown their willingness to find solutions that can bring together a majority at the end of today's debate. The revised central budget, which will receive a majority in the final vote, shows that five parties have been willing to take responsibility and bring the Storting and the country out of a firm budgetary situation. In the additional position, the Labour Party says that a majority behind the budget is already in the financial position. ‘would make the budgetary process more tidy and contribute to increasing confidence in the work of the Storting and facilitate the return of confidence in the Norwegian economy’. But the Labour Party has not crossed two sticks to contribute to a majority. On the contrary. The working party has this autumn been most concerned with creating a situation that could pave the way for a new Jagland government, with the Right as a round bend. The national meeting of the Workers' Party left no doubt that the lot this autumn has been more occupied by the government offices than to co-operate with the budget. It may be an honest matter in itself, but then one must not at the same time try to create the impression that one is willing to contribute to a budgetary compromise with the government parties. The political interplay was established between 19 November, when the financial position was released, and 25 November, when the agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party and the Right was established, a study is worth studying. With a number of business stops such as ‘supporter thread’, the two batches that previously required the centre batches to choose side were suddenly ready to choose one another! A clearer manifestation that the traditional block policy has ended up with what we can call the historical scrapheugen is not possible to show. It shall not be easy for the Labour Party and the Right to appear as main opponents of Norwegian policy after both of them have proclaimed their willingness to agree on economic policy for the next year. And after Thorbjørn Jagland was on a tight arm willing to meet Højre's demand to ‘zero’ all tax increases, the Workers' Party has effectively neutralised itself as a credible critic of other parties' cooperation with the right-hand side of Norwegian policy. It actually bears the mark of today's debate. I think everyone who knows the history behind the establishment of the center government understands that the center party was willing to go far in order to be able to continue the center project. The central budget has changed during the turbulent budgetary process of the autumn. However, in relation to the priorities set out in the original budget, the Central Party believes that we can defend this budgetary settlement: The tightness of the budget increases the possibility of a rapid interest rate reduction. The health and care sector remains a priority. The municipal complex is protected, and the strong district bet is largely secured. The interests of industry are well taken care of. The attempt to undermine this year's agricultural agreement has been averted. The aid budget is still at 0.88 p.m. of GNI. Cash support is maintained in line with the Government’s proposal and the strong commitment to an additional and alternative energy is firm. The same is true of the sickness pay scheme. The distorted SV has tried to draw from the changed centre budget is as far away from reality as the government options SV this autumn fantasizes. There's no reason to get under the chair that there's been a need for some – we'll call it – painful cuts to avoid budget chaos and to avoid a government shift. However, because what has been mentioned has been possible to take care of important priorities in the central government budget, the central party believes that the arrangement is sound – not least when we look at what would have been the option.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e692	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e695	I have been assigned to take a line on Jakobsen. I've seen through last year's replications in connection with the budget, and after that I've become a little nervous to do so, because I registered that most people who took a line on Jacobsen did not get a single answer, but a long characteristic of the one who had the line. I hope to avoid that. Instead, I hope to get an answer to something that Jacobsen has now said little about, namely the Center Party. The working party I know so much about, and did not recognize it in the production that was given. I think it's quite amazing when Jakobsen has been out in the media and presented the community scheme that improved through the compromise with the Right and Advance Party. The 147 – there is some disagreement about the number, some say 146, perhaps because the rapporteur in Skåk has now resigned from the Centre Party – or the 146 central party rapporteurs are clearly of a different opinion when it comes to solving their daily municipal tasks. The question is whether Jacobsen is really satisfied with the community. The second question concerns the agricultural settlement. When Jakobsen now says that the investment tax, to which he clearly referred, was an attempt to undermine the agricultural structure, it is completely wrong. The Ministry of Agriculture's websites say on page 1 that there is no need to negotiate fees or customs duties. So it's not part of the farm plan. But this year we've experienced through the compromise between the center and the right-hand side that there's a 100 million cut. kr in the agricultural agreement, and I have a question for Mr Jakobsen: can he show any other example that shows that the Storting has ever been cut through the budgetary procedure in a concluded agricultural agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e704	I understand that the representative Dag Terje Andersen has been assigned, as he said, to take a line on Jakobsen. I hope he has taken it seriously. I have to understand that he has taken it seriously, since he has taken the time to go through the line change from last year, which he characterized in his way. I have a bigger suspicion that when Dag Terje Andersen said what he said about it, it was because he really did not like the answers that were given. That's the municipal scheme. What we have said on the part of the Central Party is that in the municipal economic proposition, which was supported by the Labour Party in Stortinget, it was raised to a real growth of between 1 and 11⁄4 p.m., an estimated DKK 2.5 billion after the top step. What is the reality of the budget proposed by the municipal minister was that there was a real increase of NOK 2.6 billion, that is, beyond what was in the municipal economic proposition, and that was well noted for the Workers' Party's support in the treatment at Stortinget. Then we have seen that there have been significant attempts at disinformation about the municipality that we are now going to decide on. My claim today is the same as it has been throughout this process: the municipal scheme for the next year, as proposed in the context of the municipal economic proposal and presented in the budget on 5 October, we have protected. Then Dag Terje Andersen gets to say what he wants about it. Then I'm a little surprised that Dag Terje Andersen minimizes the fact that in the Stortinget before the negotiations with the Right and the Advance Party came about, it was a massive majority that wanted to cut 400 million. kr in the agricultural agreement. And that's this part of the agricultural agreement that I claimed in my first post was saved. We averted a significant cut, which not least Dag Terje Andersen, as a member of the Financial Committee, was in the process of contributing.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e713	The central party’s vision of a block-independent government was, among other things, based on the desire to control the market. After taking over the government power, one refused to tighten up. Instead, that job was transferred to the market through the interest rate level. With interest rates high above the European level, most people have felt the judgment of the market over lack of political action. As the centre itself has said, nothing affects as socially skeptical as the increase in interest rates and rising prices. This applies to people, municipalities and businesses. While interest rates have shot in the weather, the government has pushed the big message of Difference Norway out in time. The judgment on right-wing policy and curious price rise was not mild, and I expect the Government to present a big message on Difference Norway that addresses this with right-wing policy as an important reason why the differences in society are increasing. The President of the Centre Party has now removed the concept of block independence — this is because the Government has entered into a new agreement with the Right and the Advance Party on the budget. Does Johan J. Jakobsen agree that the main prescription against Difference Norway is a stable and long-term economic policy that provides for low interest rates and price increases, and does Jacobsen agree that the budgetary settlement entered into with the Right and the Progress Party will contribute to this? If the answer to these questions is yes, will the Central Party agree to a longer-term cooperation with the budgetary partners with a view to providing people, municipalities and businesses with security for stable framework conditions and predictability, or will he once again enter into new rounds with the left and the Workers' Party with appeals to indicate the resistance to cash support, so that the Government can again apply to the Workers' Party for budgetary conciliation?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e722	One had to understand the representative Trond Helleland there that when we've had a significant interest rate increase in the last six months, it's because one and only the central government wasn't willing to tighten up the budget. It was a very eye-catching conclusion, partly in view of the fact that the Right Party, Trond Helleland, voted subsidiaryly for the budget line adopted for the current year, taking into account even more the restrictive measures promoted by the central government in the context of the revised national budget. There was, of course, so little willingness on the right to tighten up that the Prime Minister had to ask cabinet questions to get what we might well admit today was a moderate tightening. I fully agree with the representative of Greece that a high interest rate in itself is unsocial, and that a stable and long-term economic policy is important for interest rate development in addition to the effect that oil prices have on interest rates. We can quickly agree on that. But when the representative of Greece comes to the conclusion that it is only in cooperation with the Progress Party and the Right that it is possible to create a stable economic structure, I am not as convinced of it. I think it'll still be that as long as we have this central government, it will reserve the right to present budgets that are in line with the political vision and the view of the Norwegian economy that the central parties have.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e729	After the state budget was presented, there has been a stream of disaster reports from Kommune-Norway, and many of them from municipalities with centre party rapporteurs. As a municipal politician in a municipality with adjusted revenues of 82 p.m. of the national average, and thus the lowest in the country, but still with a tidy and solid municipal economy, I have a little difficulty in taking all this crisis maximisation very seriously. But I assume that in the Center Party this is taken seriously. It is therefore quite incomprehensible that the Central Party will not participate in giving municipalities the opportunity to choose to make their services more reasonable by giving them the opportunity to put out parts of their business if they so wish. In order to achieve this, we need to have an extended or rather a general VAT compensation scheme. Such a scheme would be a handshake to the municipalities that depend on getting the money to reach a little longer. My question has to be: why is it so impossible for the Central Party to participate in giving the municipalities such an opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e740	In fact, unlike the representative Monsen, we in the Central Party take seriously that there is a difficult situation in many municipalities. This is a difficult situation because one at the top of a very expensive wage settlement has also received an interest rate increase that contributes to providing the Municipality of Norway with a tight financial framework. And although the government's adjusted draft budget and what is adopted tonight represent a significant increase in the access to resources to the municipality of Norway, we must be aware that this is largely linked to the important health reforms, and that one cannot therefore say that the problems of the municipality of Norway are solved. Then we are aware that not least the Progress Party believes that the key to a better local economy is to a greater extent privatisation, it is to a greater extent competitive. And what has been the most important point for the Progress Party has been this with the VAT compensation scheme, which should make it more difficult for municipalities to operate their own activities. I have to say that in the Central Party, we have no faith that privatisation and outsourcing are the answer to the situation facing Municipality-Norway today. I must also say, as has been said earlier in the debate, that in the case of the municipal structure of the Progress Party, it is of such a nature that the problems that the municipalities have today would be debatable from what the Progress Party has put up with.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e750	I have a large pile of letters on my desk from those who must live with this budget deal we have received, and a stack of newspaper clippings that all describe the reality outside this house. There are municipalities that have to cancel employees — people they need to provide home help, to provide children with proper supervision and training, and to rehabilitate people with disabilities and old people. And kids and young people are hit most, because that's where the municipalities have to take the money to be able to travel enough props for earmarked grants. Does Jacobsen think that this description from the municipalities is correct, or is it something real, as he describes SV today? If privatisation, which his conciliators are now concerned with, is not the answer, what is the Central Party's answer to these problems? And if the local authorities are telling the truth, then how can the Central Party defend the reconciliation they've been on? If the local government sector is to be strengthened until next year, I hope that the Central Party can now give a clear signal about it. In the past, the SV and the Central Party agreed that school and education were future, that it should be protected, especially in times of decline, because there is knowledge and competence we have to live on in the future. In the past, we agreed that the difference between the poor and the rich had to be smaller and not larger. In the past, we agreed that we had to have an environmental policy turnaround. Now the Center Party cuts in schools, kindergartens and school leisure arrangements. One has to look for environmental policy concerns and the differences are increasing. And the biggest contraction in the Norwegian economy is carried out without the high-income groups contributing at all. On the contrary, they get relief, and on the other hand, old and ill tax increases on their disease. Does the Central Party not see the seriousness of the fact that they have zeroed out all these important policy areas by their way of dealing with the budgetary conciliation?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e761	I am sorry to have to start the answer to this reply by clearing up a misunderstanding that has not least helped SV to market, namely that the budgetary agreement between the centre parties and the Right and the Progress Party has helped to weaken the municipal structure. That's not the case, and I've already clarified earlier in the line change that when, for example, for the tax changes resulting from this budget compromise, these are fully compensated for crowns by increased transfers to the population grant and by an increase in the discretionary pot, which Karin Andersen can be confirmed if she enters the budget that is now on the table. We in the Center Party take the situation of municipalities seriously. We have always done that, and we have contributed, in the case of previous budgets, to raising the municipal structure – not least the Minister of Finance today pointed to what happened in 1996, when there was actually a massive rise in the municipal structure. But, as I also said in my first post, I have not tried to get under the chair that, in order to avoid further budgetary chaos – and to the extent that a government crisis now in the autumn – has had to help accept some of the cuts that pain. Karin Andersen himself mentioned the school leisure scheme as an example of that. But let me also say that these families save a good deal of money in relation to the original budget that the central government provided, both through lower taxes and through the loss of the increase in the electricity tax.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e770	For the Central Party and the representative Jakobsen, this must be a bad day. Today, we are handling a budget that came through the government's kneeling down for the Progress Party and the Right. The cut list is full of the Center Party's heart issues. It is enough to cut the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. What's more reason to notice, though, is not a cut, but a promise, in every respect from the Center Party's point of view. The permission to implement the veterinary agreement went through in the Government without anyone taking it, not even the leader of the Center Party, Councillor Enger Lahnstein. To the upper end, the permissions also pass through the house with full connection. Does this mean that the Centre Party has decided to accede to the veterinary agreement, as it currently stands, or are the parties to the Government against the veterinary agreement only for internal use in the Centre Party? So a little bit about the community economy, which now has several lines of action: it's actually the fact that with the school-free time system, which is also a municipal task, they have said that the local economy has become worse through this compromise, quite right, whatever the representative Jacobsen had to try to falsify.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e781	In the case of the school leisure scheme, the change here means that for those who have children in this scheme, the price per year will be the month is approximately 116 kroner more than what was originally due. And considering that there will be a lower tax and a reduction in the electricity charge, I think that for most families this will still go together in an acceptable way. Opseth used the expression "Kneading of the Progress Party and Right". I must say that if the representative Opseth had listened to my post and noticed the long list of clear centre markings that we have the power to protect, I think he would take a different position. I have heard that Opseth and others believe that the Central Party has failed in connection with this budget. But I have to say that when we talk about losers, I've rarely seen so many losers who have been so light on their feet and as gentle as what I've seen in the Storting this past week. In the case of appropriations for the budget relating to the veterinary agreement, it is not particularly original that we accept what is made up of appropriations at this point, for almost whatever comes out of that treatment, the appropriations for so-called compensatory measures will be reasonable. What was a key point in the hearing with the organisations today was that these measures should be added to a refusal to the veterinary agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e790	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e793	If the central part has felt light on the foot lately, it must be because they are in flight from old points of view. I must be able to allow myself to do this, even if I'm going to try to put myself on a constructive line ahead. I knew that right-wing policy was bad, but that it was so ‘bad’ boring as today’s debate has shown, came a little surprising to me. And when Mr. Petersen and Mr. Hagen here instead said that they would like to use Christmas to watch each other or themselves on video, I kept on 'prime'! So let me immediately go big money a little errand and recommend various mixed from Walt Disney. We have e.g. ‘Aladdin’. It's a very good cartoon. It's about a young and attractive man who got the princess even though he wasn't a prince. We may recommend the «King of Lions», if it tastes Petersen better, «Cinderella» or «Beauty and Beast». There's a lot more to spend Christmas holidays than sitting and studying videos of yourself. Trust me, Petersen! The situation in the Grand Duchy is as follows: for the third time, the Centre has found a budgetary compromise with the Progress Party and the Right. It happened last fall, it happened in the context of the revised national budget, and it is now happening. And there's a lot that suggests that this is going to be the track ahead, because there's nothing that would suggest that not "Cree-Jan" is still going to be cool. He's got blood on his teeth, of course! He has received the reward, and there is nothing that would put him on the thought that he should be softer next time. In any case, the government has been willing to go very far. What concerns us in SV is that in this way there is more right-wing policy from government and greatness than there is actually a majority for in the big room, and what people most want and have said about that they want in the context of a election – and much more right-wing policy than if the parties calmly and objectively sat down together, put the party programs in succession and said, "Listen here!" What can we actually agree on? It is extremely frustrating in this situation, not just for me, but for everyone else who is now sitting and is going to sew together municipal budgets, and who is wondering what they will get in expenses for the next year, for the tax bills that are now given, or the crowns that have been blocked in contractions, it is the municipalities that will get the sour job to take in instead. I think it's historic that the Stortinget and the Government are tightening up $8 billion without the private sector contributing a single penny. There has been a heroic struggle here on the Right and the Advance Party to ensure that the richest will not pay a single penny more in taxes, and at the same time that the tax on sickness increases significantly. This central government has dared against the Stortinget to propose taxes or excesses on disease that are much higher than that seen by the Stortinget for many years. And I'm very surprised that the Progress Party in a previous line to Erik Solheim said it was so brilliantly pleased with what they had actually done. The advance party has fled the country and the beach around and said that they should be the warmest defender of the old and sick. The share of the ownership of disease next year increases by nearly 700 million. kr, and the Progress Party has managed to negotiate it down with, is 95 million. kr – ergo is net increase next year of approx. 600 million. kr. But the wealthiest tax sculptors are the zero's all the way out, and that's what Carl I says, Hagen is very pleased with. Yes, I almost had the impression that he had led a heroic fight for this. It is embarrassing – a terrible negotiating job on the part of the Progress Party if it really is that they believe that people who are sick and pay for both medicine, health services and health care and health care costs should be freed from more taxes. We'll make sure they know that. This is politics. I looked into the tables a little bit and found out that Mrs. Halvorsen gets NOK 600 in tax bill next year. But it was a short pleasure: A depositor serves well and does not need tax relief. That tax rate has also been eaten through the probably two-month payment to the school leisure scheme. In addition, the benefit of the union quota is gone. This is a policy that even I – a highly paid socialist – loses in the short and long term, in the short term directly in my own wallet and in the long term because the common good is undermined as they do. I think most people should think a little bit more about that, and I haven't heard that there's been any fight from people about lower taxes. What I notice when I travel is that everyone is concerned about how things stand at school, in the care sector and how to keep the standard of the public offer – that it should match what we have in private. Look around in the largest Norwegian cities. What's on the finest plots? It's churches and school buildings. 100 years ago, someone built what was supposed to be the most important thing in the lives of children and adults. It was about faith and education. That's what you should show the whole community around that bet on. My children's school has now been protected because it's Oslo's first high school. At that school, it was much better than most children had at home when the children started there when it was finished. It was almost a little palace they came to. It was nice and nice, and the school had a completely different standard than the other kids were used to. Now it's the other way around. Many children now experience a much lower standard in their everyday school life than they are used to at home. It's just to open the door nearest to any children's room and see. The standard of furniture is better than the standard of desks and chairs in many schools. The standard of computer equipment either at home with themselves or with comrades is much better than in many schools. It also applies to the standard of toys, on books and on everything. What kind of signals does this send? It sends two signals. It sends a signal to the children that knowledge is not as important as we say in party speeches, and it sends a different signal: that the public sector and everything that has to do with the municipalities – everything we have to do in common – is inherited and in a worse condition than elsewhere. Now I paint with a little bit of a wide pen, because I know that there are also a lot of nice kindergartens around, and especially in connection with the 6-year reform, many kindergartens got a boost. But the high school is kind of like what I'm saying, and in too many primary schools, it's just like that. We can do the same with care services. It is not going to be that people will find themselves in care services that are such that they cannot decide for themselves when to lie down in the evening, that others will decide what to do on the menu every single day, that one will not see TV3 or TV Norway if one is in a nursing home, etc. It is not public poverty with a large F that is the major problem ahead. That's the standard difference that's going to exist between what we want privately – what we think is most important in life – and what we meet in the public sector. That is why the right-wing policy that comes into the cold water of running the public sector is a waste of money, the worst. It's going to mean significant privatisation in a few years, if we don't agree to spend a few more dollars in common. It is true that if you know that your child is sitting in school on a chair that is too low or too high, and you have money in your wallet, you will buy a new chair. Your boy is ten years old once in his life, and you don't wait ten years until school is rusted up. It hasn't happened much yet, but it's coming, I'm absolutely sure. And then we're in the process of a new privatisation wave. Already now 6 pst. by the kids in Oslo school in private schools. Many would like to buy better services in the areas they consider to be most important. That's the big challenge we're facing in the years to come. These include: the daily paper today. The large distribution struggle in one of the world’s richest countries has stood between the fact that private consumption has increased year after year much more than public consumption has done. And then when you negotiate with the Right and protect all the heads that can go into the common fund, no matter how rich they are that are going to pay a penny or more, it's going to increase the gap. And that's where one should be mobilized – the working party should be mobilized, they've been around here, and I have to come with a little visit. It is not the case that the Labour Party has taken this seriously in its budget option. They have NOK 1 billion more than the government parties have for the municipalities. Municipalities are already in deficit at NOK 4.5 billion because of an expensive wage settlement. I have noticed that both Thorbjørn Jagland and Hill-Marta Solberg are careful to use that billion many times. But the rest of the Workers' Party's speakers have used it up and well so, for many good purposes here today. This is, therefore, a rather significant fight against increasing differences in Norway. I regret to say that SV is quite alone in running that defense fight when it comes to crowns and priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e837	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e840	I don't think the Workers' Party and SV should spend a lot of time in this debate reconstructing contradictions between us that are not there. On the contrary, I believe that our analysis of the budgetary compromise that has been reached, both the direction it has been given, the costs it has, and how it has been achieved in the political debate, is quite consistent. I noticed that Kristin Halvorsen in a line to Thorbjørn Jagland earlier today asked a sort of rhetorical question about how far the Workers' Party was willing to go to the right. I believe some of the SV's disappointment today is due to the fact that they had waited better. They had waited better from the middle parties on the basis of what the middle parties generally thought in the political change of words before the change of government. What these parties meant before the government change was in many respects consistent with what SV meant. It meant that the use of money became more important than the creation of value. If we hadn't had the government change, I'm pretty sure that this situation had persisted in an accident both for the Norwegian economy and for the Norwegian community. Ergo also has at least a lack of responsibility for the birth of the new government. In addition, the Workers’ Party and the SV stand on their side in what is the dividing line of Europe’s policy, a dividing line that crosses the Government, not between EU and EU opponents, but between those who are in favour and those who are against the EEA Agreement. And it creates, as you know, problems in European policy now both for the Government and for some others.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e849	What I asked Jagland about in a previous line today was probably whether it was the Right who was the natural partner of the Workers' Party when he took up what the Workers' Party sees as the main challenges for the future. I agree with much of what the Labour Party says about what is most important for the future, but I deeply disagree that there is more right-wing policy in Norway that solves the problems and challenges we face in the public sector. We had also hoped for drag help from the Workers' Party when it came to challenging the Center Party and the rest of the government parties from the left. In particular, the local economy has worried us very much, precisely for the reasons I have had in the past. And it's quite true, as Tom Thoresen says, we've previously run a circuit with the Center Party to fight for a few more dollars to distribute locally, and we're that drag aid right now. But we also had a certain hope that the Workers' Party would come into the same mess, and it has been a disappointment. Now I don't know how many Tom Thoresen thinks are involved in a birth. I was a little stunned if there was something I had missed. I thought basically there were two people involved in a pregnancy and a birth, but if Tom Thoresen can tell me anything else, I'm of course willing to learn in this field too. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e863	I have registered that the Socialist Left Party sees the deportation from the districts as a problem. SV has also been a driver for children to participate in school corps, football training, acting rings, etc. When you live in District Norway, there are usually long distances to and from such activities, and activities usually take place at different times, so it will be impossible to organise a collective offer for this. As a result, parents have to drive to and from such exercises and exercises several times per day. week. If parents are also to participate in social life, the price can be quite high. I think that if you increase the cost of living in the districts in this way, it will lead to fewer children participating in such activities, or to an increase in deportation. That's exactly what SV suggests to do. They're actually going to significantly increase the price of petrol, a price of petrol that's already at the top of the world. My question is: does SV think that a higher CO2 tax on petrol is a good tool for people to live and work in the districts, and that in this way they get their children out to play shows and exercises?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e869	To the Progress Party, I would just like to say the following: If the policy of the Advance Party had been implemented in District Norway, it would not have been a single young person to drive or carry anywhere. What would the Danish Progress Party's cut of NOK 6.7 billion in the local economy mean? – That the schools in which the tour takes place would have been closed, and that many of the other good children in the districts would have been gone. In addition, if one were to count in dollars and cents, the telecommunications services would be much more expensive in the districts of the Progress Party policy, the postal services would be much more expensive in the districts of the Progress Party policy, and the short-haul network would probably have been closed down. So if people sit down and start counting heads and ears on this, they'll very quickly figure out that SV's policy had paid off very well for them. Second, we have two thoughts in our head; we realize that we need more cars in the districts than we have in Oslo, even though we also drive around with our children. Therefore, we have reduced the annual tax on the car according to the employer’s tax zone to compensate some of the increasing CO2 tax imposed by SV. In total, children will still be able to live in the districts and even be run, with SV’s policies.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e876	So there was a curative dialogue and touching consensus, and we should not expect anything else when SV grabbed the word. I have looked at SV's alternative budget and found out that it says that children and young people will come first. And indeed, it says in a headline: increased freedom of choice for young children's parents. That sounds like sweet music in a Christian People's Party ear. But the music got a little smaller by reading through quite one-sided measures. The main recipe for facilitating the lives of children is more and cheaper kindergartens and reduced working time for parents. So only working parents are to be paid according to SV. Driving child education in kindergarten, school, youth clubs, outreach and child protection is important, we agree. But where does the role of parents go? Of the networks in the urban areas, SV refers to outreach, police and environmental workers. I would like to ask the representative Kristin Halvorsen if it is not soon also time for SV to put the parent role on the agenda. Could it be possible to make financial arrangements so that the responsibilities of the contractor can be placed where they really belong — with the parents? The Christian People's Party believes that the cash support is an attempt at such a family reform. A reversal of the status of parental and parental responsibility. The children and the youth will lose, says SV. Yes, when parental responsibility weakens, the children and the young become the real losers. Elsewhere in the program SV writes that human capital, knowledge and competence are the most important things we have in society. Here, too, we agree. The Christian People's Party wants to take care of their parents' competences in relation to the education of their own children. And then I would like to ask the following question: Will SV be involved in stimulating parent capital, knowledge and competence in relation to their own children in a broad sense?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e891	First of all, I must say that it is very gratifying that someone has read SV's alternative budget as carefully as this representative from the Christian People's Party. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the SV's main message, with children and young people first, has gone home and is listed. Having said that, I must say that the budget now adopted for municipalities and for the public sector is a poor budget for children and young people. In many municipalities, the situation is that in order to get earmarked funds for care for the elderly and other things, they prioritise it. As a result, school and youth leisure activities are being cut by a disproportionate proportion of the current restrictions in many municipalities. In fact, children and young people are taking a much bigger amount of noise than adults are now in the budgets that have been adopted. Then it must be a misunderstanding going out and going. If there are still some in the Christian People's Party who believe that the cash support is for children and parents to have more time together, it's wrong. I quote often an 8-year-old who has put words about what it is: the cash support is payment to keep the children away from kindergarten. There are going to be a lot of parents who continue in two full jobs and so on, but use the cash support for the day mother, intern and other childcare facilities. We think another way is much trickier. That is why we have wanted – and we have invested money – to reduce the nursery payment. Many parents want a little kindergarten – not a full day, and a lower price would make it possible to reduce their own working hours and spend less time in kindergarten. That's why we're saying a loud no to increase parental pay for school leisure. Why is it that the Christian People's Party considers it reasonable to punish the children who have parents in work? Many children need school leisure arrangements, and they're going to go home from school now with the key around their necks, and it's thanks to the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e900	I note that SV has its very clear conservative features, not least in its belief that there are only two people in modern pregnancy. The situation is that the last 20 years of biotechnology have made a lot of people involved in modern pregnancies. Now, public budgets often focus heavily on revenue, and, of course, on new and better expenditure. But there is often very little focus on what costs form the basis for what we get back for a given sum that we're going to spend on expenses. In the local economy, this is a very illustrative example. There are problems in the local economy today, but it's mainly due to a wage settlement that went quite off the hook. And it's not primarily due to things that are in today's budget, but to the problems that costs will rise to do the same tasks that you do today. Then my question is: I wonder why SV is so sure that their strategy over time will necessarily provide better services in the municipalities, because SV is one of the parties that systematically goes into order to increase the underlying costs of all public expenditure. I mention only the desire for a full six-hour working day, which, of course, for all public services, not least the labour-intensive services in the municipal sector, will explode into expenditure to be financed somewhere from. The same applies to their implemented reluctance to exploit the efficiency potential that is actually present in the local government sector today, which is intended to be up to 10 pst. of the level of expenditure in municipalities. SV therefore consistently votes against any proposal in the municipalities that will contribute to the outsourcing of competition, possibly privatisation, or at least to order and systematics in terms of cost developments in the municipal sector. Does SV not see that the long-term underlying problems in their economic policies create greater problems in providing services, rather than providing better services to people?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e909	Well, let's do that. But Erna Solberg must have misunderstood something if it is such that the Right believes that six hours of work or shorter working time is something SV wants to adopt once and for all above the state budget. Our strategy for that is just to say that we actually think people were going to negotiate something more than just increasing wages. Many want more time and more leisure. A lot of people can afford it too, and that's another way to take value creation out in a society. And when we saw the giant demonstration that was against the holiday that was to be taken away, we see that there is a potential there. I think that if people were invited to prioritize differently, we would also have gotten excited about it. Enough about that. So to what's relevant to the local economy. Yes, but I don't understand why. A private enterprise would never have treated employees in such a way as the municipalities do now, if there were no major fluctuations in the price of the goods they produced or anything like that. It is true that the payroll has been very expensive, and it is due to conditions outside the individual municipality that can actually determine. They've got a bill that they feel they couldn't decide for themselves. 10 pst. The efficiency potential is, as far as I can remember, a number from the NHO that we have problems figuring out how they have calculated. The municipalities that have put out significant parts of their services on the market or are subject to competition in other ways have managed to save 3 1⁄2 pst. This means that the Norwegian public sector is much more efficient than, for example, the Norwegian public sector. the Swedish. As they privatised on a large scale on the care sector, public sector was initially on the care side of Sweden 25 p.p. above the Norwegian in the mode of operation. The public sector is relatively efficient, but it can be much better. I think that means that we have to accept greater differences between the way to design the service offer, greater delegation to those who actually work there, greater delegation to users for demand for what kind of service you want. I just think we have a huge challenge to be able to get the public sector as flexible as most of us want it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e916	SV and the Workers' Party have a tradition of agreeing a lot. Budgetary work has also been carried out this autumn. We have rejected and gone against very many of the cuts that the majority now propose in basic welfare goods, and we have wanted to strengthen, among other things. the municipal economy and other important areas. However, there is one difference, and it is that through this budgetary work as well, we have seen that SV is able to go beyond the Workers' Party in terms of increasing appropriations to, for example, the municipalities, and beyond the Labour Party in terms of increases in appropriations for the school sector and other purposes for which we all want to spend more money. This is not primarily due to the will of the Workers' Party, but it is because it is more important for us than for SV to keep the budget balance. It's not because the budget balance is an independent goal for us, but it's because we've thought that a reduction in the amount of $9 billion and a not too strong expenditure growth in itself is important to increase the likelihood that we'll quickly get interest down. This is not an exact science, but it is at least that if you dramatically reduce the contraction, as SV adds up to – a little depending on how you calculate these oil investments – and in addition have a significantly higher expenditure growth, it becomes more difficult and less likely to bring interest rates down. I know that SV suggests that the amount of money allocated to administratively lower the interest rate in the Loan Fund, but it is clear that it is much better and more important that the general interest level falls. It is then that SV may well disapprove that the market regards such things as a budget deficit when assessing the level of interest to be paid in Norway, but it is thus through the mechanisms that the level of interest is set. And even if SV wants a different system, the budget has to rely on the current system in which the budget is presented, and their budgets then reduce the ability to reduce interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e923	Although the oil price is now coming down, there is no budget deficit we're talking about – I suppose that's a delay from Stoltenberg. Still, the Norwegian government budget is going to make a profit, but there are questions about how much that surplus is going to be, and how much money we are going to spend on the oil fund. It's true, as Stoltenberg says, SV and the Workers' Party disagree on how much tightening we should have. While the Workers' Party is proposing NOK 9 billion in tightening up, SV 4.5 is proposing. It's because we're worried that unemployment is going to increase next year. We believe that the tightening is too late and too big. In the revised national budget, on the other hand, we actually tightened up more than the government provided. In addition, we are tougher than the Workers' Party in terms of redeployment. We bring in more tax dollars than the Workers' Party does, to spend the money for what we think is most important. We also think it is a paradox that we have a defence budget that is so high when one of the most important defences is about the environmental problems in Kola, but there are now the conciliators and kisses. We have to think differently about environmental policy than we have done. We believe that the worst thing that can now happen in the Norwegian economy is if we go into a period when the interest rate still doesn't go down despite contractions, and that's, as Stoltenberg says, no exact science is what you're doing right now. If we're now going to be in a situation where the oil price continues to fall, and the tightening exercises from the bulk of the population don't give signals to the market that make interest rates fall, we can have from 20,000 to 40,000 more unemployed next year. There will be people with housing debts and high interest rates and who can get into a very fast debt crisis. Then we're into social problems of a completely different magnitude for someone than what we're talking about now. We think that the balance point is in a different place than the Working Party. We also believe that one should invest much more in the common good to defend some of the important heritage of the old social democrats, among others. the unit school. We think it's in danger simply, and it requires a different bet.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e932	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e935	): The Government’s main task in budgetary work has been to provide the basis for a fall in interest rates. It is unsocial to tighten up interest rates, it is blind to families, businesses and the public sector. The government did the job, it put forward a tight budget and the power to combine it with clear priorities according to what the center parties said they would give priority to. It was a good budget for families with children, and for the municipal sector, it was an offensive district effort, it was a good budget for small businesses, and it was a very strong health effort. It is positive that all these priorities are clear also in the adjusted approach that is likely to be adopted today. The negotiations with the Right and the Advance Party were tough, and there have been changes in the tax area. But the Right Party and the Advance Party respected that it was not cut in areas they wanted to cut to some extent heavily, but that were important for the government parties. The budget we are discussing today is not a budget line dictated by the Right and the Advance Party. Let me do a couple of examples. The aid budget is set at 0.88 p.m. of gross domestic product. That's not what the Right Party and the Advance Party want. The Right Party and the Advance Party wanted billions of pieces of aid, but they didn't get it. They also didn't get the billion-dollar cuts in the municipal sector they wanted. The centre has submitted a municipal budget that is entirely in line with what was promised when the municipal bill was dealt with in Stortinget earlier. The budget has an offensive district effort that clearly conflicts with what the Right Party and the Advance Party said they wanted to give priority when they presented their budgets. A budget has become significantly better than that of the Workers' Party. Nor is it the case with regard to the cultural budget that the desire of the Progress Party to cut on a large scale has been achieved. The budget is intact at about the level that it was when it was presented from the Government, where culture was pointed out as one of the winning areas in the budget. Nor is it the case that the Right Party and the Advance Party have reached the budget of the Ministry of the Environment. In fact, the Ministry of the Environment’s budget has a higher framework after negotiations with the Progress Party and the Right than the Labour Party’s structure. So in all of these areas, we have not just failed to comply with the wishes of the Right Party and the Progress Party; we have actually provided a budget which is at least as good and in some areas clearly better than the Labour Party presents. There is no fall for the right parties, it is an expression of a constructive willingness to negotiate based on a strong desire to achieve, but with clear leads on what is important and with which one will not agree. But it's true that the budget has changed. It has a slightly lower distribution profile than that provided by the centre parties, although for most incomes it is not about the large outflows. For income of NOK 175 000, the difference in tax bill is NOK 110 between the option provided by the centre parties and what is now most likely to be adopted. And that's not what SV's leader said, that we now have a budget where the richest shouldn't contribute a single penny. In fact, we have a tax system in which the richest contribute significantly and should make a significant contribution. But it is true that there will be no tax tightening in this budget. We have also had to reinvigorate elements that were important in environmental policy, and I find it regrettable that the electricity tax increase is not finally included. I am convinced that it would have served a future, constructive charging policy, and I am convinced that other parties too will have to look into this. Many doubted that the centre would be able to provide a tight budget – they were wrong. Many doubted that the centre was able to find the basis for cooperation and the majority in the Storting – they were wrong. Some thought the Workers' Party had to take over to get a solution and lay the basis for greater stability in the economy – they were wrong. What has now been laid out is a good basis for the Centre to continue its work on renewing Norwegian policies in important areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e956	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e959	The parliamentary leader of the left began by pointing out the importance it has for interest to go down, and we can agree on that. However, the government and the government’s spokesmen have spent all the time they have had available throughout the political change of words so far, in order to find that anything but the government’s economic policy is the reason why Norway is at the top of Europe in terms of interest rates. Today, the parliamentary leader of the Left gives the impression that it is the treatment of the State budget that is crucial for the reduction of interest rates. So if interest rates go down, then it's the economic policy that's behind it, but if interest rates go up, it's because of the international economy. Is not what Kvassheim says, a recognition that the high level of interest rates we have in Norway today is also a result of the failure of the Government's economic policy and an important recognition of it — as the Workers' Party also warned against during the budgetary procedure last autumn. On the other hand, if this is the case as Mr Kvassheim suggested, and as I have a great deal of understanding, that ensuring the tightness of the budget is of great importance in order to bring the level of interest down, as the Labour Party has always argued, then there is no reason to question why the government parties and the Right and the Progress Party in the United Kingdom are actually in favour of a budget line that is clearly less restrictive, and with the less positive impact on the level of interest rates than the Government itself has said is necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e967	It is my clear belief that the level of interest rates in Norway today is due to an international situation with great uncertainty in the economy and falls in oil prices. In such a situation, we, as politicians, are obliged to do what is possible for us to do to help reduce interest rates. It was the job the government had, it was the job the government did. It provided a tight budget and set aside many priority areas. We have had a hard ride, among other things. of the Workers' Party for it, but the most important thing was to contribute to the reduction of interest rates. I believe that the budget currently under consideration provides a good basis for optimism, but there is some uncertainty about this, among other things. linked to the oil price. As for the tightness of the budget, I would say that the tightness that is now in the adjusted arrangement is in practice about the same level as the tightness of the Workers' Party, because I choose to believe that one does not really want to reverse the cash support reform in the middle of a year, with the uncertainty that it would create for the families with children. For predictability, it has just been one of the honours of the Workers' Party. And I refuse to believe that one would finally be left with tax incentives for business that would give retroactive effect, i.e. for the current year. The tightness now in the budget is well in line with the objectives set, a level that will contribute to the fall in interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e974	I'm not going to interfere in the debate on where the tightening-up level is going to be. I should also like to ask another question to the parliamentary leader of the Left. I must admit that the presence of the Left in the Government has not always been as clear, at least from the outside, although I do not expect the Left's parliamentary leader to agree with me. But one thing I believe to have understood, namely that the Left has wanted to profile itself as the best friend of business, with particular emphasis on small and medium-sized enterprises. In my opinion, the budget adopted tonight has a better business profile than the Government's original proposal. I would like to hear whether the representative Kvassheim shares my assessment of this – whether it is not the case that the Left here has been helped by the Progress Party and the Right to get a better profile of the industry in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e981	The budget provided by the Government had a good profile for small businesses. It also has the budget adopted today. But it is right that the government stressed that in a tightening up, it is best that all actors contribute. It was cut in the public sector, it was cut that hit private, and it was cut that hit business. It was created a balance that I believe was good, and that gave room for offensive investment in public budgets. In the adjusted arrangement we now have, there are elements that are in place that are positive for business. But I would strongly warn against the belief that it is not of interest to business that we have a public sector that is able to serve important purposes. After all, when it's cut in SND, when it's cut in school budget, business people are among the first to protest. It's because it's not just the isolated conditions for business that determine the potential for growth and development of businesses. And that's where I thought that for the central government arrangement, we had found a better balance than the balance that lies in the priority of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e988	After the Right Mountain Government in the previous budget and in the revised budget, we heard the day after the central government next time would prefer to cooperate with the Workers' Party. Today we are told that Terje Johansen and Left will keep Right at an arm's length distance instead of entering into a cooperation. Is it also Kvassheim's opinion that we should be kept at an arm's length? Does the representative, Mr Kvassheim, think that Bondevik's budget submitted to the Left and Industry was improved after the Right stamped on this? And can Kvassheim confirm that businesses and private customers will receive an increased electricity charge as soon as the Left gets what they want? As Terje Johansen said in his post, "We'll be back." In the evening post on 24 July this year Sponheim set the agenda with the news that the Left threatened to break out of the Government if the party did not get a greater impact on business policy. ‘The pain limit has been reached’ said the party leader and Minister of Industry Lars Sponheim. In addition, Sponheim said: «I have said two things: that the left in the spring has taken some burdens in the form of accepting restrictions that affect business. Now I think that's enough. The left will not allow the cuts in the budget of the harvest to affect the holdings. In this case, we have reached the pain limit." Is the entry of the Right and the implementation of the budget negotiations so that Minister Sponheim has still not cleared the office?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e999	The left was fully behind the budget presented by the Government. As I explained in my previous line, we thought that it was in a good way in keeping with the considerations to be taken into account when tightening up to the extent that was done here. We had a good setup for the companies, significantly better than the Workers' Party has, and that has still been discussed here today in connection with their stabilisation programme. As far as further cooperation is concerned, I assume that we have had constructive and good cooperation on the budget. It was positive that the Right Party and the Advance Party wanted to contribute in a way that, at the same time, enabled the Centre Parties to clarify their profile issues. As far as future budgetary work is concerned, it is natural that the Government should present the budget it considers to be right in the current situation. But it's true, as the Prime Minister and others have said today, that this year's process has given lessons that it might be useful to have further learned. One problem in cooperation with the Right is that they are too little concerned with distribution issues. Another problem in cooperation with the Right is that they are too little concerned with environmental issues. I find it regrettable that an increase in the electricity charge, which in the last form we discussed it, represents a cost of NOK 200-300 for a household, which can help to move straight into environmental policy. So much had I been waiting for the Right in Environmental Policy, and I don't ignore that at a later stage there may be greater possibilities for reaching with such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1010	A tightening of between 9 and 10 billion dollars was necessary to get interest to go down. It was the starting point of the budget, and eventually, in many ways, it has been read and adopted as an economic truth that there must be a narrowing in order to achieve an interest rate reduction – as if the interest rate were going somewhere. The interest rate is not going anywhere, the interest rate is probably set somewhere by the Bank of Norway on the basis of a particular monetary policy. But what's become the consequence of the conciliation with the right parties is that we've got a tightening of barely 8 billion kroner. It's between 15 and 20 pst. lower than the initial tightening. If we follow the logic of Kvassheim and the government parties, it's more likely that with this slightly less tightening, we won't have an equal rate of interest rate decrease that we would have had a narrowing of between 9 and 10 billion. I think it's important that the representative Kvassheim comments on that particular piece, because there's not so much difference from SV's tightening proposal, which is between 7 and 4 billion. I think that's why it's important that he comments on just this. Is there a great probability that the interest rate decrease will be slightly less with the slightly less tightening that has been added to this equation? So for education. Education is one of the areas in which there has obviously been a very strong tightening, and in particular the public education institutions and public schools have been given this tightening. The school leisure system is cut by 132 million. kr. Now many municipal politicians are going to make their budgets, so I could imagine asking Kvassheim: if he were to give advice to his municipal politicians, this reduction of 128 million should be done. kr is transferred to parents as an increased own-payment, or should this be covered by the local government budget?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1019	Today, several speakers have explained the reason why one can accept a level of tightening lower than one originally had. There has been a development, including: in the construction industry and in other areas, which may indicate a certain regressive position here. However, it is still the case that there must and must be a significant tightening of the budget in order for politicians to have made their contribution to the reduction of interest rates. I believe that this budget is a significantly better contribution and makes it more accurate in relation to the current situation than the SV's proposal. In the case of the school leisure scheme, it is right that it is cut within it, as a result of which those who pay for it receive an additional cost of about EUR 15 million. NOK 100 per year. month, if there is an increase in self-payment. The increased cost cannot be seen independently of the other changes made to the budget that affect people's economy and that give more money available because you have reversed tax increases. The totality makes it a good idea to cut back on the school leisure system, as set out here. When there are questions about my advice to the municipal politicians, whether they should turn this over to the parents in terms of increased payment, or increase the municipal contribution, I would assume that both solutions can be useful, depending on the situation of each municipality, and there is no one better to judge than those elected to the municipality in question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1028	The debate has been going on for many hours, and I have tried to follow up fairly well on what the Government and government parties think should be taken into account in order to reduce the high level of interest rates in Norway. A starting point is probably common: you have to trust the Norwegian krona. I think that's a very important factor. So I've experienced in the course of the day that several people have actually assessed it so that the significance of the government budget is not superior to the high level of interest rates, but that it is international. And since the representative of Kvassheim started his speech of regret – that is how I understood it – the high level of interest rates in Norway, I must now be allowed to ask what the parliamentary leader of the Left is placing the greatest emphasis on in order to reduce interest rates. Is this the State budget to be adopted here tonight, with the constraints it has, or is it what the Prime Minister has previously said, namely that the level of interest rates is hardly going down particularly if oil prices do not rise? It might be interesting to get an answer to that, because now I hope soon the government and the government parties will be able to act somewhat more collectively in what arguments you use in relation to the high interest rate level and in relation to getting the interest rate down.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1035	What I put the most emphasis on is the state budget, because that's what I've had the opportunity to be with and influence. It's been our problem number. 1 to contribute to what we can to base our interest rate on. And I believe that the Government has contributed to the budget that has been put forward, with the will that was shown to find a solution through cooperation with other parties in the Stortinget. I am convinced that if the budget is adopted as it stands now – and I think it will – it is a solid contribution that has thus been made. But that has been said by several speakers, and I agree that there are other elements than the State budget that affect when interest rates go down and how far they go down. There is no new recognition that I have received today, so we have considered this for a long time, but we have focused on the state budget because that is what has been our job in the last few months. Then I would like to say to the Labour Party's speakers who have thundered from this pulpit in the budget that has been carried out in this round that has gone with the Right and the Advance Party. The willingness expressed by the National Labour Party meeting to find a solution with the Right that was aimed at zeroing taxes and charges plus finding a compromise in the case of cash support would require a cut of 4 to 5 billion kroner. I have no faith that the Right Party and the Labour Party would find a compromise that hurts less in the areas that have aroused the involvement of the Labour Party today than the proposal that is now available.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1044	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1047	It's actually an incredible situation we're in when we're now discussing the state budget. The starting point for this expansion is the election campaign that took place in 1997. Then the main message to almost all parties other than the Workers' Party was that it was important to replace the Workers' Party, because the party had been turned right. From the centre parties, and perhaps most strongly from the Center Party, it was said that we had too much right-wing policy in Norway, and that it was important to stop the slide to the right. And so for the third time, we are experiencing budgetary cooperation not only with the Right but also with the Progress Party. Yeah, block dependency, it's jamming over! And it is clear that the Center Party is finally in the pocket of the Advance Party. The reason why the central parties could not discuss the budget with the Workers' Party was the cash support that these parties could not break agreements and promises given to young children's parents. But the promises are broken! What they were promised was NOK 36 000 a year. But the budget-mates who are going to adopt a budget today have actually agreed on a cash subsidy of NOK 28 000 after deciding that they could not discuss a compromise with us. Instead of making a compromise with us, the centre parties chose to fight through what was really the old electoral matter of the Advance Party – if I do not remember correctly, the proposal for cash support was first presented by the Progress Party in 1984. Prime Minister Bondevik said last year in the financial debate: «Economic policy is a fine interplay between fiscal policy, income policy and monetary policy. If one pillar fails, the ground shall also be rent under the other." Yes, that's right! It is quite correct, as it was said, and that is why what was done is so wrong with the interior. Last year, fiscal policy failed – we as politicians, or the bulk of the population, failed and contributed to the collapse of the state budget. And it's quite right that Bondevik then said that the other points failed in turn. Norway was a different country, with declining unemployment, with a solid economy, with stable welfare development up to last year. But the right-hand turn has changed on it. Now we're a different country with higher interest rates than other countries in Europe. We are at risk of increased unemployment – at least it is said by the Directorate of Labour, although Minister of Finance Restad has said otherwise today. We have high price increases, we have reduced construction activity, we have too weak yard support, we have cost increases, we have high interest rates – all moving towards a more uncertain situation with regard to the main issue of the state budget, namely security of employment. Yes, someone is paying for the consequences of the government's policy. Every day the Norwegian people pay way too high interest. That's the cost of having this government sitting there. They're going to pay an increase in excess of the excess, i.e. an increase in the tax on sickness next year. They have been subjected to the older reform, although there are enough plans in the municipalities. They get cut off the school leave system, and kindergarten expansion stops abruptly and places are getting more expensive. This government presents itself as a revaluation. So it's a valuation that is now cutting off the health pay scheme for those who make less than NOK 57 000. Many women in part-time positions are going to notice that value. It is a valuation that, in a situation of increased unemployment, cuts in action areas that may be offered to those who become unemployed. And finally, in August of this year, Bondevik compared the responses to possible tax increases in Norway with the situation of starving children in Sudan. Today, we are likely to adopt a government budget that protects shipowners from tax aggravation, while significantly reducing the aid budget. That's the appreciation we have.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1071	Let me first fix some numbers, where unfortunately I was going to mix the Right Cut with what was left after the Right Cut. Sometimes it's not that easy to see the difference, but I got enough to do Right wrong, especially in terms of assistance and education. The aid will be cut by 1.3 billion and not more than 7 billion, which I got. I'm sorry, but the point in my line is still firm. Of course, it is very gratifying that after lengthy and complicated negotiations it has been possible to arrive at a positive clarification for the 1999 state budget. The budgetary agreement between the central parties, the Progress Party and the Right provides the Government parties with subsidiary support for an adjusted draft budget, which is detailed in the two additional positions of the Financial Committee. Initially, the distance between the lots was very large. It was therefore necessary to take quite a long step towards a compromise in order to reach agreement. I would like to commend both the Advance Party and the Right for their willingness to contribute in such a constructive way and with the necessary determination, as the outcome of the negotiations was overtime. So, on the tax side, we have gone a long way to meet the demands of the Progress Party and the Right. One of the main concerns of the rounds of negotiations has been to ensure that the budget was designed in such a way that it could help to achieve confidence in the governance of the Norwegian economy and mitigate the pressures, so that the high interest rate could gradually be reduced to a more normal level. The negotiated draft budget has a device which will be able to do just that. The tightness is about the same level as the central parties' adjusted budget proposals in the financial situation. Once tax increases have fallen, a lower price increase and a more moderate salary settlement can also be expected next year. Of course, this is very satisfactory. For government parties, it has been very important to ensure that the main priorities of the Government have been well implemented. During the presentation of the State budget in October, the Government stressed, inter alia: the following key areas of action: reinforced efforts in the health and care sector, in which the reform of the elderly is continued. Psychiatric intervention programmes, cancer prevention and the renewal of equipment in the hospital sector must be continued. The regional policy effort must be maintained. Measures for families with children, in particular the implementation of the important family policy reform with cash support, must be followed up in line with the agreement between the five cooperating parties. And finally, the centre parties want to show a willingness to ensure the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises, including SMEs. by maintaining the sharing model, continuing share discounts on unlisted shares and ensuring that generational shifts in family-owned enterprises can be made at a lower cost than hitherto. All of this has been well preserved in the adjusted budget line. In order to implement the necessary tax reductions, it was necessary to go to difficult, sometimes painful, cuts in the budgets of different departments. Nevertheless, we have managed to maintain the commitment to health and care. Development aid is still at 0.88 p.m. by GNI, and the local government sector is protected against cuts in relation to the Government's proposals. The strong investment in districts is also retained in the new budget line. The draft budget continued its efforts on the environment, on the one hand, and on alternative energy sources on the other. We are also pleased that the Government can continue its important work to ensure jobs, housing and value creation in the districts. But not only the five cooperating parties behind this budget agreement should be satisfied. The political environment as a whole should be satisfied with the success of finding a solution that could bring peace to the budgetary process in the Storting and contribute to confidence in the governance of the Norwegian economy. Of course, the situation of a minority government makes strong demands on the Government’s own will and ability to make compromises. However, corresponding requirements are also set for the opposition parties. The centre parties were willing to go far in order to meet the demands of the various opposition parties in the negotiations. But we could not override political credibility. There's a certain limit. The central parties place considerable emphasis on the need for economic policies to be sufficiently tight to ensure a balanced development of the economy. Financial policy and the development of the oil sector must be actively used to stabilise developments in domestic demand for goods and services. The government's policy is to keep the crown stable in relation to the European currency. However, if we are to succeed in achieving the necessary stability of the economy, the social partners must also contribute. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to maintain good income policy cooperation that can contribute to a moderate price and cost increase, as the Prime Minister also stressed in his statement. This summer I called for the Government to appoint a new Commission corresponding to the Employment Commission of 1992. My main reason was that the situation today is completely different from when Per Kleppe and his selection went through the Norwegian economy six years ago. Increased internationalisation, increased competition and increased tensions in wage formation require fresh impetus in economic policy. However, I had only to note that the proposal was received lukewarmly. With the exception of LO and support for leadership in a few newspapers, the interest in such a Commission was not very high. It could be because of the summer heat. Of course, it can also be because I did not have the power to communicate the main idea and the main intention behind the proposal in a satisfactory way. Nevertheless, for my part, I can only note that there now seems to be a broad consensus that closer cooperation in the field of income policy, usually through a joint committee or committee, will be positive so that the main elements of the solidarity option can be continued. The proposal from the Workers' Party I hope, however, can be sent to the Government without a trial of reality based on the concreteities and conditions that I believe the Government should have the opportunity to look at. Let me also comment on a proposal in the vote, namely V. Here's what it says: ‘Norway needs to initiate a strategic dialogue with the EU to strengthen our anchoring in the EEA Agreement and our participation in the various EU cooperation projects. Our role as a leading energy and environmental nation must be actively used in such a dialogue. Such dialogue may also examine the possibility of linking the Norwegian krona closer to the euro.’ The Christian People's Party considers it very important that an active European policy is pursued, and that we use all the channels and opportunities available to us to make the best use of the EEA Agreement, for the benefit of Norwegian industry, research, cultural cooperation and in other areas covered by the EEA Agreement. However, the proposal for a V also includes a request to look at the possibilities of linking the Norwegian krona to the euro. It seems doubtful whether this is a good idea. However, it should in any case be examined in line with the intention of the Workers' Party's proposal, and it would in any case be of value that the Government examines further the monetary policy after the establishment of EMU and the introduction of the euro from 1 January 1999. It is clear from what I have said that I will ask the Labour Party to consider submitting its proposal. In this case, the centre parties will carry out a similar operation with their proposal. The negotiations on next year's government budget have probably been not only negotiations on the budget, but also negotiations on what government the country should have. It has been strange to listen to the Labour Party's criticism of the lack of social distribution profile in the budget, the lack of stable governance and the lack of predictability of economic policy. Now we can see that the Workers' Party was willing to abandon its entire stabilisation programme – at least for a time – to meet the Progress Party and the Right in the demand for no tax increases. It's unclear how stable this solution would be. I noticed that leading financial analysts thought that such a solution would rather create a crisis mood and have a bad effect on the interest rate level. Anyway, I'm glad we don't have to speculate on this any more. The Bondevik Government continues its important work of strengthening efforts in key areas, whether in terms of district policy, family policy, framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises, important value and cultural issues, the implementation of new health reforms initiated by the Government, etc. We've done a lot of work in government offices, and the Workers' Party may still have something to learn in opposition. I shall conclude by expressing once again the recognition of the Progress Party and the Right for good constructive negotiations which led to a budget with which we must be very satisfied. It is a budget that adapts well to the economic challenges we face. If we can establish good income policy cooperation with the social partners and have constructive, factual political cooperation with all the opposition parties on the Stortinget, I am convinced, for my part, that we have laid a good foundation for coping with the major challenges that await us both economically and politically in different areas of society and in business, both next year and in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1106	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1109	I think Einar Steensnæs is the first of the government parties to defend the budgetary settlement on their own basis. I think that's respectable. What's hard to understand is that you had to wait up to one minute at twelve to get it done. If it's that this solution is good, why didn't one go to this step right away, instead of creating so much anxiety for so long? Others from the government parties have said that it was the National Labour Party meeting that led to the start of action, that is. became effective. Then you have to ask yourself how it is going to go next harvest, because then the Labour Party does not have a national meeting. Then you have to figure something out again. But now leave it. I have a question for what the Prime Minister has said today, that there is little government can do to bring down interest rates if oil prices do not rise. I would like to ask the parliamentary leader of the largest government party: is this really the opinion of government circles? In this case, it is unacceptable for enterprises, for young families and for others with large loans and for the municipalities who are now told that the government's budget is good, among other things. because interest will go down. Now all of these people are told that interest rates can stay high for a long time if oil prices don't go up, and there's not much prospect that they'll do that. This also breaks with the assumptions in the national budget, where it is said that the krone price should fall to the original level during the year. If not, much will be different from what the Government describes in the national budget. I want to hear now what kind of perception Einar Steensnæs has of this question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1118	Yes, of course I can defend this budget. It was just supposed to be missing. Even more importantly, the government can stand behind it and defend it. It would be a little bit of a joke that we here in Stortinget negotiated something that we didn't have the government on. But I have little sense of explaining the circumstances of a budgetary settlement based on yesterday's or previous weeks' framework conditions. There was a political development in this, and the head of the Workers' Party should not underestimate the impact of what came out of the Workers' Party's national meeting, where it is among others. it was established that the Workers' Party would be able to zero out all tax increases in order to reach agreement with the Right, if possible, in a budgetary settlement. I have characterized that in my post as a little stable solution, as the Right made it clear that this would happen in a crisis situation of chaos, and then they dismissed any responsibility for the further sailing for a new government of Jagland. This would be a very unwanted solution and at least not signalled stability, as the Workers' Party has requested. I must also ask that the head of the Labour Party quote the Prime Minister correctly. The Prime Minister did not say that the Government has no responsibility for the interest rate, and that it was the oil price that governed it, but he stressed that the government’s contribution was limited in relation to the strong impact that a reduced oil price would have on the interest rate, because we know that the interest rate – as the workers’ party governments have done in the past – is in favour of keeping a stable exchange rate. When it comes to the interest rate trend that I was asking for, I can only stick to what the government itself has said. They have submitted a budget and the budgetary agreement is also designed to reduce interest rates in the relatively short term. So the intention is that the budget's arrangements will help bring interest back to a more normal level.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1127	As the President has probably recorded, we have been through a turbulent budget harvest. Looking back, you can see that any budget that a block-independent centre has provided has appeared to be messy and problematic, and it has peaked with the cabinet issue in the context of the revised national budget. I and many with me have never believed in a block-independent center, and when the creator of such a block-independent centre, Anne Enger Lahnstein, in the NRK’s ‘For debate’ declared that the block-independence had died, it was a positive recognition. I think many people agree with me that you cannot continue to deal with the state budget in the way you have done so far. Such treatment of the budget creates market turmoil, creating uncertainty for both population and business. I think these have a minimum predictability requirement in a budgetary procedure, and so they have not had it so far. Now the Steensnæs and more with him from the center parties have told us how pleasant the Advance Party and the Right is to be doing, and it is nice to hear. It would therefore be interesting to know what the representative of Steensnæs thinks about the forthcoming budgetary procedure. Will the Centre continue to act as if they were block-independent, or is it now possible to expect that the Centre will contact some block in good time before the budgetary procedure with a view to reaching a result in good time before the budgetary procedure?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1136	I basically agree with the representative of Kenneth Svendsen that it may be useful to review and evaluate the process that has been under way in relation to the year's budgetary procedure. There's probably things there that can be improved, and there's probably things here, too, in the size of the party groups and in the experiments that were done, that can be improved so that the outward appearance becomes more neat and more predictable. It's a common desire. If it goes as long as we have minority governments -- we've had that before, and we'll keep getting that, I think -- it's another case. But I'd like to go through and evaluate this. With regard to this requirement for the Government to investigate, as it is called, or to contact one of the blocks in advance – then the block policy is in place again – I am surprised because no party other than the centre parties has declared itself to be a parliamentary basis for the Government. So there's no one who can collect support in advance either here or there for what the government had to provide, whether in terms of the budget or other matters, and we have full respect for that. That is why there must also be full respect for the fact that the Government is allowed to formulate its draft budget in line with its best opinion and assessment. And then, of course, it must be that when this budget comes to Stortinget, the government parties must be flexible, negotiable and constructive in terms of finding solutions. We are fully aware of this responsibility, we know that we have a weak parliamentary basis, and should we forget it, it is enough of the parties that will remind us of this in the Storting. And so we have actually gone into the negotiations with flexibility and satisfaction, and I think the Progress Party and the Right will also be able to confirm that this is the case. But there is a limit, and that limit goes, of course, where the government's policy is no longer visible. That limit I expect both Kenneth Svendsen and other opposition parties here in Stortinget to have full understanding of.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1143	Steensnæs asked the Workers' Party whether the party would withdraw the joint proposal from the Right and the Workers' Party on the euro, the EU and the EEA as it stands. The answer from the right-hand side is no. It has been clarified through the debate that the Government is unwilling to pursue such an active policy. They're constructing counter-conceptions. We believe that it is important to examine at a political level the possibilities for cooperation. The Maastricht Treaty opens this up. In my view, it is not necessarily the case that, in order to get an agreement, one has to go from flexible stability to fixed price within the oscillation margins. In any case, it should not have been found before you talk, and again at a political level, so the debate has fully underlined that the government needs someone to press on, because it does not glow with enthusiasm in meeting with Brussels at any level. If the government needed enthusiastic support for its travels and political advice for its conversations, I would recommend conversations with the NHO, the LO, the Banking Association and, for security reasons, the Saving Bank Association as well. There will be good advice both professionally and probably marginally in politics. A lot of the debate has been about why the government parties basically turned so strongly along the way and suddenly got very anxious to negotiate, why the impossible became possible. It is possible that the answer lies in Steensnæs’ own home newspaper, Haugesunds Avis, and I quote it for information: ‘Unless one is politically blind, it should not be difficult to see where the support is. Instead, the government has run a confusing and devious game to make sense that the government is block-independent’. I don't know if this was the decisive argument, or if it was the National Labour Party meeting. It could also have been Steensnæs’ own opinion with the threat to the Right that non-socialist cooperation would cease if there were no agreement. And then my question is, what non-socialist cooperation is that Steensnæs suggests to us? I don't know anything about history in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1156	I was excited and listening, especially to the quotation from Haugesunds Avis. It's an important newspaper for me to relate to. I signed up for a quote I was going to have problems with, but I gradually realized that it was not my statements. It was the head of Haugesund's newspaper who kicked off freshly. So to the non-socialist cooperation. I'm still using that term. There are important common political contact areas, in particular in value policy issues, family policy issues and in relation to the framework conditions for business. I could probably have used several areas to exemplify that there are the non-socialist parties that have a long tradition of standing together – they are not completely conform, the parties of course differ from each other also on the non-socialist side of priorities, levels, etc., but there we have a lot in common. In this cooperation, it is important to ensure that this dialogue continues, because there are many important issues lying there. It has with value creation, employment, housing, etc. to do. And I think it would be a real pity if that cooperation was put over because some of the parties would leave, for example. a negotiated agreement which the parliamentary leaders themselves had signed. So to the question of the proposal I asked the Workers' Party, and of course also the Right, to send it. I note that it will not be complied with. Let me just say that it is by no means right that this Government does not have an active, ongoing and I would almost say enthusiastic commitment to European policy. It is possible that Per-Kristian Foss has other ambitions in relation to how this should be expressed. But I can assure Per-Kristian Foss that the Government is working to make the best out of the important EEA agreement we agree on. And I also want to confirm that the Government will also follow up the request in the Workers' Party and the Right's proposal to examine the connection between the euro and the krona.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1167	The representative of Steensnæs shall have a good reputation for his partners. For the next time, he praised the Right Party and the Advance Party. But it doesn't take much to praise those parties for them to accept right-wing policies? The Tripartite Government reminds me of the sacred three kings. It saw its star rise above the Waxenåsen and felt it was promising. Then put the burden on the camels and went out on the road. Afterwards, it turned the jacket after the right wind, and ate the camels and eased the loads on those who were already sitting hard in it. It has cash support for the child in the crib, but then it's over. Kindergartens are getting bad, it's reported. The tax settlement shall include, inter alia: be paid through a more expensive school leisure scheme. If schools are now laid down, there will be a long school path and the standard of the schools that are left, I guess it will remind you more of the stable than of the Adult Lodge. Speaking of that – it is part of this declaration: ‘The aim is to ensure full compensation for municipalities for the additional costs of the six-year reform, both for investment, operation, school kissing and school leisure arrangements.’ - Yes, "school leisure" it says! And on the other hand, ‘Central government will increase the allocation of measures to improve the outlying areas of schools and to ensure safer education for all school children.’ I should have liked to read this whole statement, it says very well about school there. Earlier today, the Prime Minister has said that there is not so much right-wing policy in the conciliation. Does Steensnæs mean that there is no right-wing policy when it costs to be sick, but not to be rich? Does Steensnæs believe that there is no right-wing policy when it comes to getting more expensive to have kids on the leisure system? Now it has to be said that there was a terrible starting point for the municipal economy from Regeringa. But at least that's not what the Adult Declaration says. Has it become central policy that there should be a bad local economy? Or is it just the central government that has accepted right-wing policy? In fact, I believe that the stars have passed over the Adult Box, and that they are going into the dark: I'm just afraid that they will go with the Right and the Advance Party until they go outside the pit!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1190	It is clear that the representative Inge Myrvoll does not feel so well when the centre parties have found together with the Right and the Advance Party in a budgetary settlement. And Inge Myrvoll knows our starting point very well. But when they're praised, that's why. Of course, it is not because we had to do these many painful and difficult cuts – of course not – but because they were tidy, cooperative and constructive in a situation where Stortinget worked overtime to find a solution. They're supposed to be proud of that. I don't have any trouble giving them credit for that. And if there are other parties that help the government – also SV – I will overwhelm them with corresponding praise if they act accordingly neatly and responsibly. Then there was this picture with the sacred three kings. I wrote and wrote and thought the whole picture was very strenuous and very perplexed, so I don't think I can follow that attempt to illustrate the situation. I fell off the load long before the camels had reached the stable, I understood. [[Laughter]] There's a lot to say about these claims that the government has been with and made everyday much worse for people. But with regard to the municipal economy, Myrvoll's old story of the 200 million. kr. Now it has been said so many times that I thought it was unnecessary to repeat it, but there is simply the explanation that the municipalities now save money through this modified scheme, by reducing the sick pay period from three weeks, as it was originally, to two weeks and two days. As a result, there is a cost saving for municipalities. And similarly, there is a cost saving in terms of the waste of the electricity charge. So it's a zero sum game that's done to make the municipalities equal. With regard to the sickness pay scheme, I can only point out that there are also improvements in relation to self-employment compared to what the Government originally provided.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1200	The representative of Steensnæs was able to make quite enough contributions without attacking the Workers' Party, and he has already been duly praised by Thorbjørn Jagland in a previous reply, but he did not manage to show that it was the National Assembly of the Workers' Party that made an agreement in the harbour between the Centre Parties and the Progress Party and the Right, and then it may be timely now that it is so far out in the debate to ask the following question: Did the real representative Steensnæs say that without the National Assembly of the Workers' Party we had now had a government crisis? Is that really what he said? There are also many others who have said before today, that without that national meeting, we would have had a government crisis in Norway today. Perhaps it is possible to get an answer to that before the evening is over. Then, earlier today, there has been an attempt to get the Government's assessment of the impact on most of the budget adopted tonight, on the budget decision to be taken tonight, for example. will contribute to the decline in interest rates. The finance minister responded relatively woolly when he got the question earlier today and had many other factors to come up with that had a significant impact on what would happen to interest rates, and he concluded that it was mainly the development of the oil price that was going to determine whether interest rates would go down. The Prime Minister has also referred to falling oil prices in terms of interest rate developments. Anyone who listens must get the impression that the government is trying to shift the responsibility a little away now for what will happen to interest rate developments in the coming years. Einar Steensnæs, on the other hand, was quite clear, and now it is a little important to clarify from Steensnæs: Is it such that Einar Steensnæs has a different view of this than the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance? Because Steensnæs then said, knowingly – and perhaps he can confirm – that interest rates should return to a more normal level, even in the short term.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1207	To make sure that I can answer this with interest, I start with it, and then I can quote what is in the government's own documents. ‘The interest rate is to go down towards the European level’, it says — that is, a lower level. And that's what kind of has been leading the entire government budget, which has made it necessary to cut in by 9 billion, 5 billion compared to cuts and 4 billion relative to taxes. Now this has changed, but the tightness of the budget has been maintained, and when the tightness is so important, it is precisely based on the need to bring interest down. There has been an important clue to everything that has been of budgetary work, both in the Government and what we have tried to achieve from conciliation. In relation to the oil price, everyone knows that the Norwegian economy is very open and that it is very oil-dependent. That is, the oil price will mean a lot to the currency, and since we're just using interest to stabilize the currency, interest rates have to be high at a low oil price. Similarly, in the spring of 1997, the crown was very strong, and despite the pressures in the economy, then Minister of Finance Jens Stoltenberg put the interest rate down to stabilize the crown, contrary to what a fiscal policy really needed. There was a tightening one needed, but because the interest was to be used to stabilize the crown, it went the other way. Here, the central government is completely in line with the practice of the Workers' Party when they were in the government offices. So to this by explaining what happened in the budget agreement – where one might ask the Prime Minister. But for this, without the National Assembly of the Workers Party, we had a government crisis. There's never been any government crisis, I haven't heard of any government crisis. One had to almost just ask: Would the Right go from his signed agreement with the four other parties when it came to the cash support – in which case we would have had a crisis – in order to join the Workers' Party? There are many related questions here, and at least the question cannot be answered as simply as Hill-Marta Solberg wants.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1218	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1221	The Labour Party believes that trust and order in the Norwegian economy are the best basis for ensuring our welfare systems, jobs, the security of everyday life and the economy for people the most. Through its budgetary option, the Labour Party has offered cooperation to create security and stability. And the content is not a new invention, but a repetition of our main issues over several years. The starting point is work for all and efforts for the elderly, health and education, and it is made possible by repatriation of the solidarity option and cooperation with the social partners on a low price and cost increase. And here were the tax proposals that could counteract the difference society. Developments in the Norwegian economy during the Bondevik government – with the Right and the Advance Party as co-sponsors – have contributed to uncertainty, and many thousands have felt interest increases on the body. We see danger signals of an increase in unemployment in the future. This is the main challenge. It is to be hoped that the budgetary agreement between the civil parties will allow for a fall in interest rates. I have the impression after the debate that the government also hopes more than believe. It is now required that the civil parties actually take responsibility for the content of the budget and the development of the Norwegian economy. So far, I have had the impression that some parties have been more concerned with putting responsibility on others. The budgetary agreement confirms the cooperation of the central parties on the right from last autumn and in the revised national budget – no surprise as long as the agreement to commit large costs for the future through the cash support scheme was the only one that should not be changed. I understand the busyness of the Christian People's Party in its flagship business. But that the Central Party has made the Government subject to a veto on a single case from the Right and the Advance Party is incomprehensible, a veto that prevented the Government from working together on the left. The Centre and the Center Party shall now lean towards the Progress Party, which they themselves considered to be the greatest threat to their values and goals a short time ago. And we have been documented that the cash support system costs, with cuts in other areas. The government's block independence is a phased-off. It is now claimed that it is not so important who you are working with, but what the content of the cooperation consists of. I am more concerned, in fact, when I look at the content of the budget agreement: a lower level of ambition in employment policy when the challenges increase, the cutting off of efforts towards children and young people, and the postponement of the elderly, which means fewer places of care and care. Steensnæs has excused me, but the municipalities have poorer opportunities to maintain their welfare services. This is not black paint, but a reference to consequences. It can be characterised as a center profile with a right twist, although I still don't know what the center profile is. Or as some commentators have written: the Center keeps the government, but not the politics. Security and legal certainty are fundamental prerequisites for the functioning of a welfare society, and indeed for a welfare society at all, the need for individual security, law and order to be taken seriously. The work for a safer society and against crime is therefore important for the Workers' Party. The new trends in juvenile delinquency and cases of gross violence are troubling us. The goal of getting rid of this can all be agreed on quickly. But reasons and instruments are complicated and require politicians to move under the heading and symbolism policy. There are no simple solutions. We must fight crime, place individual responsibility, but also counteract and prevent illegal acts. The fight against crime cannot be conducted alone within the framework of the justice sector. We need a broad-based effort, as the Prime Minister said earlier this evening. We must not isolate this into just a question of police and stricter penalties. Here we need an effort and cooperation from home, school, volunteers, child protection, police and other public agencies. Everyone agrees that the growing-up environment of children and young people is essential and preventive work is needed to prevent a criminal runway. But here, too, resources are needed. The Labour Party is in order to secure funds for the police in the fight against crime. However, when this means that prevention, such as the school leisure scheme, should be cut simultaneously by over 100 million. I believe that the whole policy in the fight against crime is lost in the agreement between the centre, the right and the right. Then I am back to the basis that we can at all times increase efforts in both the justice sector and in other areas, namely that we are keeping order in the Norwegian economy. Here it's also the whole thing and not the symbols that count.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1243	The Progress Party has presented a comprehensive proposal for an alternative budget which differs significantly from the other parties' submissions on several important points. Our starting point is that we want a smaller public sector that concentrates on the core tasks of health and care, education, defence and order, and perform these tasks properly, which is not always the case today. In this way, we also have room for significant tax relief, which means that people have more of their income and can decide for themselves what they want to spend the money for. We are constantly hearing that if public revenue is reduced, it will automatically go beyond important welfare tasks. But that's not true. One should not budge much in the state budget to find that large amounts go to completely different things. More than DKK 10 billion will be sent out of the country, and at least as much will be used to maintain a rational and resource-intensive agriculture. These were the large numbers, but there are a lot of smaller items in which it is never proposed to cut in order to meet the most important welfare tasks. For example, it should. be room for a small tightening in the support of the Opera, which is now well above NOK 1000 per year. Ticket. We give support to so-called free dance groups that almost don't have their own earnings, we give guaranteed pay to artists who don't manage to live on their own work, we give support to movies almost nobody goes to see etc. The list could be done much longer, but this is at least enough to show that not every cut in public expenditure necessarily affects children or old and sick, as is usually the case. It's the same batches that use this rhetoric, which are the most angry opponents of public efficiency in their business, despite the fact that there is plenty of evidence that this can be done without going beyond quality. We have a public sector that is so large that it gives an unacceptable amount of tax and tax pressure, while at the same time dissatisfied with many of the services that the sector produces. It should be enough to recall the permanent ‘crisis’ in public health, elderly care, etc. The socialist solution to such crises has always been to spend more money in the sector, believing that it alone will solve the problems, instead of looking at whether there is organisation and efficiency there is something in the way, and not access to resources. Such a way of trying to solve the problems is not only inefficient, it is also socio-economically harmful because it eventually leads to a tax burden that brings far greater socio-economic costs than the cost increase itself. These additional costs arise because taxes create wedges between the price of the producer and the price of the consumer. Higher taxes will therefore provide lower total value creation in society. Therefore, it is important to find other ways of solving these crises. From the private sector, we know that the market works, and the sensible thing to do is to use the market to measure efficiency in the public sector as well. We can easily do that by stimulating the production of municipal and state services. There is no good reason why public enterprises should be a form of sheltered industry, where the same efficiency requirements are not imposed as in other activities. Some people have to get into a dilemma here. Inefficiency means that there is an unused potential to create something of value. Unexploited potential is lost opportunities, e.g.: to provide the necessary care for the sick and the elderly. What, then, is most important – to give a sheltered life to public employees, or to provide the necessary care services to those who need it the most? Some mention has been made in the debate. Among other things, SV's Øystein Djupedal and Kristin Halvorsen claimed that in our arrangement we had weakened the municipal sector by NOK 7 billion. This, of course, is completely wrong. Firstly, they have not come to realize that SEK 3.2 billion is just a designation for deposit-based funding of hospitals, and secondly, they obviously have no understanding of the dynamic effects of our arrangement overall. We've gotten the Central Statistical Office to calculate the effect of our arrangement, among other things. for the municipal sector, and their calculations show that the sector would reach DKK 2.5 billion better out with our approach than with the government proposal, among others. due to significantly lower price and salary growth. One of the main challenges now is to facilitate a lower and stable level of interest rates. There are several factors that have contributed to the situation we now have, with an interest rate level that is about twice as high as in other European countries. Low oil prices are obviously the main factor, but there can be no doubt that the market is also affected by what is perceived as a lack of political stability and governance. The root and uncertainty of the last few weeks have not exactly helped to increase respect for politicians and political work. This is something we all have to take on responsibility for. It does not benefit anyone when something as important to the country as the budgetary treatment among peoples is most often perceived as a political blackmail. That is why it is important that we now have things in place and have a budget adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1260	The Bondevik government has fully demonstrated that there is a government in conflict with itself. It's most people and business that cheat. Little trust in the economic environment of the Government's governance has given us an interest rate level far beyond what our neighboring country has. Now, the Prime Minister is tempted to disclaim the responsibility for facilitating interest cuts. Now it is the oil prices that apparently govern the interest rate. The budget proposal and the management of this here in Stortinget have not strengthened confidence in the government's governance, rather on the contrary. The government has gone from shot to shot, to end up with a budget dictated by the Right and the Advance Party. It is not the Right Party and the Progress Party that have met the Government, as Prime Minister Bondevik said earlier today, it is the Government that has made itself flat for the Right Party and the Progress Party, alone to hold on to the government power. Worry in the Norwegian economy will continue. As a result of increasing globalisation and rapid technological change, industry is in great need of transformation and innovation. Efforts in areas such as business research and the development of new products therefore need to be increased. The working party has provided for this in its alternative budget. Creating a research fund are measures that over time will give research more stable conditions. In particular, we need to increase the effort on maritime research, where we have unana resources for growth. The working party wants to use the hall of state-owned property that Stortinget has agreed to for, among others. such a fund. In addition, there is a need to strengthen state intervention to ensure that new technologies are used by industry. Being a drag for business is a priority task for the Workers' Party. We have therefore screened and partly strengthened the tools for business. This is the case with SND, SIVA, the Export Council, NORTRA and the Institute of Technology. The government has failed. We are now seeing an increasing trend towards full-speed unemployment. In such a situation, one would expect the Government and the Storting to adopt a budget set up to ensure employment. It's not like that. More and more shipyards are still notifying about permits. The order books will be empty in the yard after the yard. Bringing the shipyards up to the same level as our competitors should be of course. But no – all except the Workers' Party let the yard industry live in a hopeless competitive situation. The government withdrew the investment charges for agriculture and forestry into the agricultural negotiations, which are contrary to the Storting's intentions. The Labour Party has had and has had an honest debate on the investment levy for agriculture and forestry. But it becomes dishonest when it is claimed that the Labour Party no longer supports the agricultural agreement. What's right is that the Workers' Party supports the agricultural agreement, but it doesn't include the Government, the Center Party. The government will cut a negotiated and signed agreement of 100 million. kr. It's probably Right and Carl I. Hagen who's been passed. An active labour market policy is important in order to bring those who, for some reason, fall outside the labour market back into work. It is sad to see that what was a low level of labour market measures in the Bondevik government's budget proposal has now been reduced further. A small country with exports of over 50 pst. of what we produce, depends on an active and targeted European policy, not passive adaptation. For Norwegian business, it is a point of light that there is a number joining the Workers' Party's proposal for a more active European policy. Then we're going to find out that we have a government that reluctantly manages the Storting's decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1281	The central point of the Right in the Autumn has been to contribute to the budget for the next year being provided with a facility that can help to reduce interest rates. The government has been concerned about the need for tight fiscal policies, while at the same time wanting to present a budget with a central profile – what it is now. Increasing taxes and taxes is the easiest and easiest way to pursue a tight fiscal policy. Then you don't have to prioritize. The only government prioritized was the cash support, but unfortunately at the expense of the ordinary man and woman economy and by imposing more burdens on business. Fortunately, this has now been cleared up in the context of the budgetary agreement and with the cash support remaining. What the country now needs is a stable governance and a stable and good framework for business. It now turns out that the troubled international situation has a negative impact on the profitability of the competitive export industries, much more than what was thought just a few months ago. In fact, the low dollar price has compensated for something, but the order availability turns out to be difficult. In 1997, employment increased relatively sharply in the competitive sector, including the in industry. This development has flattened out and now shows a decline. Employment is now increasingly coming from distribution, services industries and the public sector. What the country needs is value creation, conversion and renewal. The government lacks a strategy in this area, to have an overall strategy for targeted investment in skills and technology transfers to the many existing enterprises. ‘I dare to argue that lack of long-term thinking, prioritisation and investment in industrial competence development is one of the main problems,’ says CEO Eva R. Karal of the Institute of Technology in a quite thought-provoking chronicle in the evening post today. The right-hand side was not alone in resisting the government's policy. The trade union movement was also against the tax and tax increases that would come to the top of the interest rate jump – this had to be taken back into the wage negotiations and would therefore weaken the competitiveness of businesses. We have a strange price and cost level. Not least the explosive border trade shows it. Reducing food tax will not help reduce border trade. What we need to do is to bring about an approximation of the taxes on the most attractive products. This time we've at least just adjusted the price of a lure like tobacco and cigarettes, and we've had a slight reduction in the cost of alcohol. A little step in the right direction, but it's so small. We should have gone another step further. Without the proposed price adjustments, cigarettes are for example: NOK 15-20 cheaper per year. package in Sweden. A box of coke costs NOK 3.50 in Sweden, compared with NOK 14-15 in Norway. It's become the new contraband, and it's been smuggled more and more on a larger and larger scale. This suggests that the packaging charges must now be dealt with and, in particular, the base charge must be removed. Ribbe, Norwegian, can be purchased for 24,50 kroner. The offer price in Norway is SEK 49.50. The workshop prices are half that. Even Norwegian furniture is more reasonable in Sweden. The volume of cross-border trade will increase further in 1998 and in the future in 1999, as it has increased throughout the 1990s. Many jobs are lost here. I think the Asia crisis has been underestimated. Now that we are also facing an initial economic downturn, businesses are facing major challenges. Eastfold is often in employment context in advance of other developments in the country. Eastfold has many competing industrial enterprises. Now we are facing the loss of 550 industrial jobs, and we expect at least 750 out of industrial jobs in the new year. The finance minister said that it is not right that unemployment is increasing, but we have the lowest unemployment in a long time. Yeah, that's probably right right now. But I have to ask the Minister of Finance and also the Prime Minister to raise his eyes and see something further, and take the signals and act in time. It is important that we do not have special taxes and taxes that help Norwegian companies to invest abroad and that the foreign owners of enterprises in Norway find it more appropriate to add output to the rest of the world, as PLM now does. When central companies such as PLM Moss Glassworks with 220 jobs and Norwegian Fine Paper with 180 jobs are laid down, the impact on small enterprises is considerable. It is important that Norway should be able to take the same steps as Denmark is now in the process of doing, and facilitate the situation so that businesses will fly into the country instead of flagging out.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1302	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1305	The budget that is now being adopted represents a strong right-wing triangle. The country gets a budget where we don't find any leverage to raise the weakest in society. The distribution policy that was so important to the centre parties, especially to the centre party, is completely subdued. Those who don't need tax relief get even greater relief. The unemployed, the children who need primary school, kindergarten and a preschool offer, become the losers in this budget. It cannot be said that this budget is a budget that prioritises the families of children. There has been so much talk about the parents who had based on cash support for next year. What about the parents who were based on having the children in kindergarten for next year? Now thousands of kindergartens and preschool facilities are in danger, either because municipalities have to cut because of poor finances or because their parents cannot afford to have children there because the rates are getting very high. The local government budget of the Workers' Party would give NOK 1 billion more to the municipalities and in addition a further NOK 1 billion from the taxpayers to the tax-weak municipalities. Labour market measures are cut for 8 000 persons compared with 1998. Only in Eastfold got 450 people laid off last week. These need re-schooling. I have been in contact with the employment offices in Østfold today. They say they have no opportunity to give them an offer so that they can re-train themselves to the vacancies. This is directly irresponsible and will be very expensive for the state in the long term. I am aware that this is not a debate that should be concerned with whiskers. But neither is E6 through Eastfold a know-how. Here we are talking about our main route to the rest of the world, not just for Eastfold, but for the whole country, from Finnmark to More. In this context, I will refer to the Eastfold package of toll financing which is now being examined at the Road Office and will be coming to the Stortinget next year. In the financial situation, there is a proposal to assess the private financing, construction and operation of road projects, and the E6 in Eastfold shall be a current pilot project. The belief in private funding is returning. We in the Workers' Party do not think this will provide more money for road construction in Norway. Private developers do not do this for free. They have to make money, too. Reimbursement has always been more expensive than paying cash. And when the Minister of Transport said on a political mark on E6 Saturday that there is no money the state lacks – and he realized that a four-field road from Akershus’ border to Svinesund could be completed by the year 2000 to be the year 2007 – I don't understand why we need a test project now. Or did the Minister for Transport give a promise that there is no reason to take seriously, and that not even his own dares to believe in?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1326	Since I was present on the above-mentioned appeal, and since I perceived the last as a direct question to me, I can say that I saw that way could be completed by 2007 – given that the Østfold package is presented. It's based on fissures and hard work. I had no picture that it could be finished by the year 2000. It would be beyond most realistic expectations. But I always pay homage to splinter and hard work – especially when the toll percentages are high – then we get results.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1332	On the basis of the government budget that Stortinget will soon adopt, there is an agreement between five political parties. In the process that has taken place, there has been – at least according to the newspapers – a certain knife between Jan Petersen and me. We have, as he said before, had a slightly different profile in this. He was particularly pleased with a debate he and I had in the Per Steel Wage Centre on TV2, and he wanted to be a Christmas present a recording of this debate, so he could look at it sometimes every day of the Christmas holidays. I thought I would end this pleasant debate we have had today by saying that I have spoken with Per Ståle Wohnning, and Jan Petersen will get a copy of this debate handed over tomorrow, so Christmas is assured.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1337	Did the representative Petersen ask for the floor?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1340	So that's how it's going to be done!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1347	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 - 5. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1355	The vote will take place at the next voting time on the items on agenda No. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1361	The President proposes that the Minister of Finance's statement on the 1999 State and National Budget be annexed to the minutes of the Grand Duchy meeting on 5 October 1998. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1367	Case No. 2 applies to the budget-inside. S. I. and Appendix No 1 to the same setting. The President shall draw attention to the fact that the budget comes to an end. S. In Appendix No 1 will be taken into account in the vote, as it contains an amended conclusion in relation to the original budget revenue. S. I. Mr Solberg has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1375	There is hardly any need for a comprehensive explanation of vote. I trust that we will receive clear guidance from the President along the way. However, in the course of the debate, a recommendation has been made by the representative of Steensnæs to the Workers' Party to consider two proposals, and I think that I need to give feedback before we go to voting. The first is proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party in the Budget-inner. S. In Appendix No 1) setting up an Employment Committee. Both the Prime Minister and other representatives of the Government Parties have underlined that they agree with all the intentions contained in this proposal and have requested that the Workers' Party turn it into a transmission proposal. That request we think it is good to meet, and we have the understanding that the Government will start a similar work. Then we've got another recommendation. It concerns proposals for V in the Committee’s recommendation. It is a proposal by the Labour Party and the Right for a more active European policy. Here too, a recommendation has been made to make the proposal for a transmission proposal. I'm not going to spend a long time on it, but I just want to say briefly that we look at it differently, and have no certainty that the Government has the same intention as the proposers to have this strategic dialogue established, so here we think it is natural to maintain the proposal as it exists. In other cases, the points of the recommendation are included in the budget entry. S. I., I would just very briefly advise the Members of the Labour Party to vote in favour of any proposal except I, IX, X, XI, XIII and XIV.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1386	The President will only be satisfied that the reference to V also involves a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1389	As far as V is concerned, we cannot meet the request, so we maintain the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1394	Then it's settled – also for the President. Case No. 2 a total of 20 proposals have been put forward, all of which are included on pages 18 to 21 of the budget. S.I. Appendix No 1st@item: inlistbox It's: the proposals No 1-3, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 4, by Siv Jensen, on behalf of the People's Party, Right and Tverrpolitan People's elected proposals No. 5-8, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 9, by Lars Gunnar Lie on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left Proposals No. 10 and 11, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 12 and 13, by Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 14-19, by Mr Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 20, from Steinar Bastesen on behalf of the People's Party In the vote that follows, the President will start with the proposals from the smallest fraction and move forward after increasing size. There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the People's Republic of Trans-Political. The proposal reads as follows: «For the treatment of the 1999 State Budget by the Grand Duchy, the following framework for appropriations is laid down in accordance with the breakdown into framework areas adopted by the Grand Duchy on 20 October and supplemented on 13 November 1998: Framework areaRamme1State administration 11 974 350 0002Family and consumer 27 910 681 0003Culture 1 833 483 0004Foreign affairs 10 923 308 0005Justice 7 878 034 0006Inmigration, regional development, housing and employment 6 103 015 0007Day money, etc. 9 794 000 0008Defence 23 820 078 0009Division 3 509 975 00010Fischery 458 360 00011Agriculture 13 426 463 00012Oil and energy -30 154 000 00013Environment 2 238 212 00014Greatness 725 559 00015Social and health 23 987 763 00016Social protection, social and health 140 180 400 00017Education and research 25 110 246 00018Company 17 108 280 00019Room grants to the local government 50 50 506 818 00020Simultaneous expenditure and revenue 5 721 254 00021Export guarantees 1252 000 00022Financial administration 8 037 344 00023Taxes and charges -398 861 975 00024Distributionstributions and other charges -398 861 975 00024 -5 467 542 000’»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1621	Proposals Nos. 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19, from the Socialist Left Party, are addressed to voting. Proposal No. 14 sounds: «For the treatment of the 1999 State Budget by the Grand Duchy, the following framework for appropriations is laid down in accordance with the breakdown into framework areas adopted by the Grand Duchy on 20 October and supplemented on 13 November 1998: Framework areaRamme1State administration 11 974 350 0002Family and consumer 26 363 181 0003Culture 2 053 477 0004External 12 227 408 0005Justice 7 920 684 0006Inmigration, regional development, housing and employment 6 998 665 0007Day money, etc. 9 794 000 0008Defence 20 915 968 0009Industry 3 388 675 00010Fischery 458 360 00011Agriculture 13 466 463 00012Oil and energy -31 712 000 00013Environment 2 663 762 00014Industry 725 559 00015Social and health 24 124 163 00016Industry, social and health 140 970 400 00017Education and research 27 895 264 00018Industry 17 051 580 00019Industry subsidies 54 616 818 00020Indebted expenditure and revenue 5 721 254 00021Indebtedness guarantees -177 00022Financial administration 8 035 344 00023Taxes and levies -408 543 975 00024Indebtedness, etc. -4 657 542 000’» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to pursue an active European policy, with a focus on Norway’s freedom of action outside the EU, and to provide annual reports to the Stortinget on this matter.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: «The granting framework and the framework for net lending growth for 1999 by the State banks are determined in line with the observations of the Socialist Left in the Budgetary Section. S. [[1998-99]] I Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to reintroduce policy-driven interest rates into the State Loan Fund for Education’. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the interest rate in the State Educational Loan Fund is set at 4.8 pst. from the end of the year.’» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess organisational solutions between Kommunalbanken and Postbanken.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e1845	Proposals Nos. 12 and 13, from the right, is taken up for voting. Proposal No. 12 sounds: «For the treatment of the 1999 State Budget by the Grand Duchy, the following framework for appropriations is laid down in accordance with the breakdown into framework areas adopted by the Grand Duchy on 20 October and supplemented on 13 November 1998: Framework areaRoom1State administration 11 750 450 0002Family and consumer 28 406 181 0003Culture 1 488 177 0004Foreign affairs 10 896 242 0005Justice 7 832 034 0006Inmigration, regional development, housing and employment 5 069 815 0007Day money, etc. 9 794 000 0008defence 24 522 078 0009 Industry 2 978 975 00010Fischery 424 360 00011Agriculture 12 498 963 00012Oil and energy -30 007 500 00013Environment 2 101 512 00014Distribution 720 559 00015Social and health 23 786 513 00016Social protection, social and health 136 356 400 00017Education and research 24 932 746 00018Combination 16 645 480 00019Contribution to the local government 48 270 818 00020Simultaneous expenditure and revenue 5 721 254 00021Export guarantees -177 000 00022Financial administration 7 7 7 731 344 00023Taxes and charges -398 031 475 00024Distributions and other charges -398 031 475 00024 -5 467 542 000’» Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The granting framework and the framework for net lending growth for 1999 by the State banks are set in line with the Right-wing Notes in the Budgetary Section. S. [[1998-99]] I
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e2046	Proposals Nos. 10 and 11, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 10 sounds: «For the treatment of the 1999 State Budget by the Grand Duchy, the following framework for appropriations is laid down in accordance with the breakdown into framework areas adopted by the Grand Duchy on 20 October and supplemented on 13 November 1998: Framework areaRamme1State administration 11 257 963 0002Family and consumer 28 598 211 0003Culture 893 968 0004Forestry 4 487 730 0005Justice 8 031 534 0006Inmigration, regional development, housing and employment 4 229 515 0007Day money, etc. 9 794 000 0008Defence 24 531 078 0009Industry 2 217 575 00010Fiskerry 259 860 00011Agriculture 6 540 463 00012Oil and energy -30 180 000 00013Environment 1 941 833 00014Greatness 730 559 00015Social and health 27 416 763 00016Social protection, social and health 136 638 400 00017Education and research 23 912 783 50018Contribution 16 287 780 00019Contributions to the municipal sector 43 426 818 00020Simplemented expenditure and revenue 5 731 254 00021Export guarantees -227 00022Financial administration 7 815 710 00023Taxes and levies -383 184 975 00024Distributionstributions and other resources 5 731 254 00022 -4 964 542 000’» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to submit proposals for a resolution plan for SND.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e2249	Proposal No. 9, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, and the Left, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘a.The Government asks the Government to pursue an active European policy and, through dialogue with the EU, to make use of the EEA Agreement and to strengthen our participation in relevant cooperation projects. Our role as a leading energy and environmental nation will be important in such a context. The Government must follow closely the development of EMU and, in close contact with the Storting, be prepared to assess whether special measures are required to safeguard its interests, in particular in terms of well-being, employment and resource management.b. The Government is asking the Government to file a case for the Stortinge where developments in monetary and monetary policy will be clarified after EMU has been established and the euro will be introduced as of 1 January 1999.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e2265	Can the President split the proposal into two sections?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e2270	It will be met, and the President will continue: here there will be voting points, and there will be voting points only above point (a). Then the President hopes that it will be satisfactory. We're only going to add up to point a.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e2281	It is then voted over point (b), and here the Progress Party has announced support.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e2284	The same thing applies to SV.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e2291	Then SV has also announced support, and that is clearly the optimal support – Mr. The sauna, too. Then it's optimal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e2302	Proposals Nos. 5, 6, 7 and 8, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, is taken up for voting. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the rules of the Swedish Social Security Fund in order to allow the Swedish Social Security Fund to invest in listed shares in the other Nordic countries.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a regulatory statement to existing regulatory regulations so that the cost of regulation can be measured against the objective. The government is called upon to promote rules which assume that the costs of new regulation imposed on the market should be part of the decision-making basis when new regulations are proposed. ‘... Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the partial privatisation and listing of Statoil, inter alia, in order to provide the company with capital to the foreign investment it considers necessary in order to be able to compete in international competition.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose the conversion of the Petroleum Fund into a People’s Security Fund and how the provisions of the Petroleum Fund can be more regulated and how the disposal of the Fund can be less dependent on the current budgetary procedure.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e2333	Proposal No. 4, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Twist elected by the People, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the VAT compensation scheme for value added tax to municipalities and counties general, so that all services can be put out of competition.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e2349	Then we have to vote on the proposal No. 1, 2 and 3, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 2 has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal shall then read as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government bring together the heads of the main organisations of the labour force and the employers’ side in a Joint Committee with a mandate to establish a new solidarity pact for the labour market. The Committee should be chaired by an independent representative and should complete its work before the next year's salary settlement. The main points of the mandate of such a committee should be: Design an enhanced solidarity option that points to the obligations that governments, employers and employees must assume to ensure that jobs and welfare can be ensured, inter alia, in a new international reality. Discussions on how continuing training and working time issues can be part of a strategy for both increasing competitiveness for Norwegian jobs and a more human and flexible working life for workers. Mandate needs to be developed in concrete terms in cooperation with the main social organisations.’.» The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 3, Proposal No. 1 sounds: «For the treatment of the 1999 State Budget by the Grand Duchy, the following framework for appropriations is laid down in accordance with the breakdown into framework areas adopted by the Grand Duchy on 20 October and supplemented on 13 November 1998: Framework areaRamme1State administration 11 816 686 0002Family and consumer 25 844 681 0003Culture 1 830 477 0004External 12 085 308 0005Justice 7 670 034 0006Inmigration, regional development, housing and employment 6 417 415 0007Day money, etc. 9 694 000 0008Defence 23 745 078 0009Entrepreneurship 3 254 975 00010Fiskerry 452 360 00011Agriculture 13 397 463 00012Oil and energy -30 274 000 00013Environment 2 195 150 00014Greatness 725 559 00015Social and health 23 719 119 00016Social protection, social and health 139 238 721 00017Education and research 24 722 206 00018Company 16 000 280 00019Contributions to the local government 51 276 818 00020Simplementation and revenue 5 721 254 00021Export guarantees -177 000 00022Financial administration 8 005 344 00023Taxes and charges -404 741 975 00024Distributions and other charges -4 657 542 000’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘With reference to the adoption of the sale of State shares, SIVA shall be allocated 50 million. such a sale in the form of increased equity.»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e2574	You're going to have to vote over the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e2768	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they want to vote against it. The voting boards showed that 67 votes were cast for the Committee's vote and 50 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 23.14.46]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e2777	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e2782	At that time, the votes of 68 were corrected in favour of the Committee's position and 49 voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e2804	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e2824	The President assumes that the Socialist Left will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e2839	Here it is the Workers' Party and the Right that have the position, and the President assumes that the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left will vote against it. The party of progress and the Socialist Left will also vote against it. – Then it all starts to get clearer.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e2876	Here is the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right which have the option.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e2893	The working party and the right have the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e2910	Here the President will only refer to the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right, and the President assumes that the Government Parties and the Socialist Left will provide his support.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e2935	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e2970	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e3010	We're going to vote on case no. 3, and that applies to budget revenue. S. No 1 and related Appendix No 1st@item: inlistbox The President stresses that when he refers in the following to Appendix No. 1, it's about budget-inner. S. No 1 Appendix No 1st@item: inlistbox We're done with Supplement No. 1 to I, so we've now summed up where we stand. A total of 28 proposals have been put forward for this matter. It's: the proposals No 1, 3 and 4 of Appendix No 1, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 2 of Appendix No 1, by Lars Gunnar Lie on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left The following suggestions are all to be found in the Budget-Inst. S. No 1, i.e. the original position: the proposals No. 2, 7, 9, 19, 20 and 26, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 3, 10 and 22, by Per-Christian Foss, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 4, 11 and 28, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 5 and 12, by Steinar Bastesen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 13, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left Party, the proposals No. 14-16, by Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Cross-Political People's elected proposals No. 17 and 18, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 21, by Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right and Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 23 and 24, from Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the People's Party, on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament. 27, from Per Kristian Foss on behalf of the Right and Twist Party Proposals are included on pages 116 to 160 of the Budget. S. No 1 and pages 20 to 44 of Appendix No. 1st@item: inlistbox The President makes it clear that due to the fact that an additional vote has been taken, with the amended conclusion, some of the proposals put forward in the original vote are null and void. It concerns the proposals Nos. 1, 6, 8 and 25, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The President will refer to Section 19 of Storting's Rules of Procedure when it is now to be voted against. It appears that once decisions have been taken on the financial envelope for the 24 framework areas into which the budget is divided, the amount adopted may not be waived in the further examination of the framework areas. Such a decision was taken in the previous case, and as a result, some of the proposals put forward will not be put to the vote and will therefore be lost because they are based on amounts other than those adopted. These are the proposals in the Budgetary Section. S. No 1, with the exception of proposals Nos. 13 to 24 independent of the framework areas. The President will come back to these. In addition, Appendix No, the following proposal applies. 1: No. One, three, four. For the same reason, the proposal for a decision in the framework section 20 of the supplementary resolution also lapses. It is available on page 84 of the configuration. The President will first vote on the proposals that are independent of the framework areas, and we will begin with the proposals No. 23 and 24, from the Socialist Left Party and the Twist People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e3092	I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e3099	And then we're going to change that. Then the votes to 73 were corrected against the proposals and 45 voted in favour. That is why the proposals have been rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e3116	Proposal No. 21, from the Right and Socialist Left Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the adjustment of the interest rates for simplified customs duties in accordance with the increase in prices during the period.’ Here the Progress Party has notified subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e3132	Proposals Nos. 19 and 20, from the Party of Advancement, to voting. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals in the State budget for the year 2000 that the annual fee be paid only for the part of the year in which the vehicle is registered.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government of the revised national budget to submit a closure plan for the charging of boat engines.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e3153	Proposals Nos. 17 and 18, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, to voting. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to draw up a plan for the closure of the levy on chocolate and sugar products as soon as possible and at the latest in the 1999 Revised National Budget.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to draw up a plan for the closure of the sugar levy as soon as possible and at the latest in the 1999 Revised National Budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e3174	Proposals Nos. 14, 15 and 16, from the Party of Advances, Right and Twist elected by the People's Party, to voting. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Transport Economic Institute to undertake an investigation into the progress and level of the one-off charge on motor vehicles in relation to the total social economy, traffic safety, the environment, the composition of the car park [[age, used car imports, new car sales, etc.]] Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for the early termination of the levy on cassettes.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: «The Government requests the Government to submit a proposal for the early termination of the charge on radio and television equipment.»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e3199	Proposal No. 13, from the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Left Party are being taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government not to trigger the GSP security mechanism in 1999’.» The voting boards showed that 73 votes were cast against and 45 votes in favour of the proposal of the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Left Party of Socialism. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 23.28.19]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e3211	I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e3216	Then the votes were corrected to 74 votes against the proposal and 44 against. The vote will be taken at the next voting time, and the President will go first to area 23. We are now on pages 46 - 69 of Appendix No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e7297	The President assumes that the Labour Party and the Socialist Left will vote against the referenced proposals for decisions for this Framework Area, Framework Area 23, with the corresponding tax and tax decisions under Roman numeral II.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e7307	The proposal for a decision in Framework Area 24 with the corresponding Roman numerals II and III shall then be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e7838	We are now going to go to the vote on the motion for a resolution in the framework area of 19 and the corresponding Roman numerals II.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e8033	We have then come up with a proposal for a decision under Framework Box 20, and here the President reminds us that the motion for a resolution has been deleted when it concludes with an amount different from that adopted in the previous case. There will be a vote here on the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left, which is on page 20 of Appendix No. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: «COMMUNICATION 20 I.In the 1999 budget, expenditure: [[Random expenditure and revenue]] Chapter.ObjectivesCroners2309Simultaneous expenditure 1Operating expenditure 5 271 274 000Total expenditure 5 271 274 000 Income Cap.Post.5309Curriculum income 29Yms 50 020 000Total income 50 020 000’»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e8145	There is still to be a vote on the non-framework proposals for decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e8156	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30-2.ana.ud2422e8200	During the debate, Mr Djupedal put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The Socialist Left Party's proposal and then the vote will be voted on first. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider imposing restrictions on Norwegian companies’ ability to speculate against the krona.’
