ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e26	1 December d.o.b. has had a wide-ranging debate on the proposal for an action plan to reduce the use of drugs. I am pleased that the 1999 state budget represents an increased commitment to prevention, after-protection, etc. In one area, methadone treatment, I wish the committee majority would grant more money. Unfortunately, the Labour Party does not receive a majority for its proposal to increase the appropriation by 10 million. kr. That we do not have a majority in favour of this proposal must be the responsibility of the budgetary conciliation. In the current year, there will be more overdose deaths than ever before, and there is a need to establish a nationwide provision of methadone-assisted treatment. In recent times, there have been a lot of recordings about selling beer at the gas stations. I have registered that there are different attitudes to this issue in the Government. As I understand it, the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Administration are going in to allow the sale of beer at the gas stations. Will the State Council of the Ministry of Social Affairs join such a conclusion or disregard the advice of its government colleagues? After the state budget proposal became known, we have been able to record that a large number of hospitals will have very major financial problems next year. Although the bulk of the population today decides to increase the reimbursement share of input-driven funding in hospitals to 50 pst. from 1 January 1999, many hospitals will nevertheless have significant financial problems. I am aware that many claim that the county councils give priority to error. For a number of years, however, many county councils have had to deprioritise the allocations to, among other things. cultural measures and investments in the county road network, which are often in a wretched condition, in order to provide citizens with the best possible health care. It is regrettable if we get a situation at our hospitals that will involve longer waiting time for treatment and more interruptions to the waiting list guarantee. Prior to the 1997 elections, all parties agreed to give priority to older people and health. Two important prerequisites for success in this effort are increased financial resources and many more health workers. We need doctors and dentists. In municipalities, there is also a high shortage of qualified health professionals, such as nurses and caregivers. The Norwegian Nursing Association has stated that there is about one. 10 000 nurses who do not provide nursing services. Both employment and wages and salaries are an important reason why we have such a situation. I have never realized that there should be such a big difference in the remuneration of people with higher education. Why do we not give priority to education and work in the health sector as strongly as in, for example: technical sector? It can then not be more important to build bridges and roads than to provide sick and old best care. At the hospital at Svalbard, I have recorded that there has been a debate on surgical preparedness. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee asked the Government to give feedback to the Stortinget on how today's surgical preparedness at Longyearbyen Hospital is working. I regret that the bulk of the population will neither price and salary adjustment the host municipality grant during the year’s budgetary procedure nor join a request for this to be done in the revised national budget for 1999. We have a lot of municipalities that had large PU institutions, which are now built-in. The economic situation in municipalities may lead to a reversal of the 1991 reform in this area. This year's report on the results and experiences of the Government's Disability Action Plans was discussed on 2 April this year. In that debate, I addressed the proposal for the Youth of the Nordic Handicap Federation on the establishment of IT studies for disabled people at the University of Hedmark. This case has been in the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education, Education and Research for several years. I expected this matter to be included in the draft budget for 1999. Can the Minister of Social Affairs indicate when this matter will be dealt with in the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e49	Despite agreement on a tight budget, it has been possible to give priority to funding for health and social measures. The Committee has endorsed the Government’s areas of action in the fields of elderly care, psychiatry and cancer care. The group of older people aged over 80 is growing rapidly, and there is a need to establish good and flexible solutions tailored to their needs. If, for various reasons, the municipalities do not have the power to keep the investment timetable, the Christian People's Party believes it is right to provide investment support for another two years. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the discretionary means of care for the elderly have increased significantly in next year's budget. We are also concerned that the funds are used in the elderly. Fortunately, most pensioners are fresh and active. For these, it is very important that the basic amount increased by 5.75 pst. in the spring, and that the special discount is now being raised to NOK 17 640. The minimum pensioners got an economic boost in ours. The government aims to help those who have the least, but who is the weakest group? I'm glad there's going to be a big message about living conditions next year. Personally, I think many young people don't score that high. Increasing violence, gross violence, drug problems, many overdose deaths among young people, the fact that more and more people feel like losers and more and more lack adult contact, are signals we take seriously. The action plan for the reduction of drug use contains many good prevention measures that may prevent such negative developments. Family and community environments are essential for safe growth. If some are outside, different measures are available. And these have to be tried before one finally chooses methadone-assisted rehabilitation. The Christian People's Party agrees that the offer will become nationwide, as this is no longer a capital problem. The government is showing willingness to prevent. By giving $5 million. kr extra to the Swedish Nutrition Council and SEK 3 million to the Tobacco Injury Council can focus on what diet and smoking means for public health, especially cancer. I am pleased that a joint committee will require the development of mammography screening with two additional states. The pilot projects show an attendance rate of almost 80. The women are waiting for the offer. As the case rapporteur for the psychiatric hospital, I refer to a great deal of consensus here as well. Recruitment and further training of health professionals are important factors for success. There is a need to invest more in district psychiatric centres and housing facilities in the home municipality. The construction of nursing homes shall be financed according to the same model as in the care of the elderly – NOK 175 000 in grants per year. housing and annual reimbursement of interest and instalments. In order to prevent this field, efforts are being made to strengthen leisure activities, work, support contacts and health stations. Eating disorders are a growing problem, which is being researched at the State Centre for Child and Youth Psychiatry, and Modum Bad expands its treatment provision in this field. Joint and muscle disorders may be reduced by allowing more people to travel to a warmer climate. Back complaints are not easy to prevent, if you look at health money numbers and the number of miscarriages. A national back disease competence network shall now be established. That this field has not had a high degree of excellence is shown by the fact that there is not one professor of any of our medical faculties in this area. The establishment is a good start. A comment that input-driven funding has increased to 50 pst. : I think we have to run slowly. Not all hospitals are able to increase their capacity. The central hospital in my own county has a lack of space, others have a lack of qualified personnel. The budget will focus on recruitment measures, especially in outlying areas. With the postponement of the fixedlegislation by one year, the time can be used for this.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e83	I have listened with interest to the debate today. Everyone should agree that municipalities will have a very tight economy until next year, and that this will also affect the elderly and the sick. It is therefore surprising that the will to do something from the government parties, the Right and the Progress Party, which has the majority position, is not present. Government parties cling to the hope that interest rates will fall, and that municipalities will receive more money in this way. But so far it has only been a rising interest rate, and local politicians are becoming increasingly frustrated by their cutbacks in an electoral year. The Elder Plan shall be postponed. The money is used in other areas, which are given priority over older people. The Minister of Local Affairs is comforted that there are great differences in the municipality of Norway, and that some people have good finances. The working party tried to get a majority of NOK 1 billion more to the municipalities as well as a redistribution of NOK 1 billion between the poor and the rich municipalities and county municipalities. This would help something. But we didn't get a majority for that. The Labour Party is pleased that a unanimous committee has granted more money for mammography screening than the Government proposed, and that four new counties can start up, as was the assumption when the Labour Party government introduced this in 1994. In the county last week, Eastfold County has decided to apply to join next year. This will allow 11,000 women in Eastfold between the ages of 50 and 69 to be screened for the first time. Among these, approx. 70 new cancer cases are detected. I hope for these women that it is now Eastfold's turn to join the project. The Social Minister was previously active in the debate on increasing differences between people. It wasn't that nice. What's strange is that this social budget, built from the bottom of the same minister, will increase the differences further. Those who have the least will get even less, and the richest will get more. Large tax reliefs to the richest, while 200,000 – mostly women – are deprived of their sick money, are petty and quite incredible from a social minister who has previously gone so high on the job when it comes to Difference Norway. The single carers, for whom the Minister of Social Affairs was so concerned and who are now in training or qualifying for work, are also at risk of losing their qualifications because the level of labour market measures to the next year is reduced so strongly that only those who have the guarantee will be considered. Lonely caregivers have no such guarantee. Last year, the number of new unsatisfied people increased significantly. It concerns us in the Workers' Party. We believe that we need to invest more strongly in both ASVO sites, labour market enterprises and wage subsidies for those who, for various reasons, have problems in the ordinary labour market. This applies not least to psychiatric patients. It will defuse up to an increasing number of ports of disability. We know that approx. 16,000 people are hit by a stroke every year. There's a lot of them. I am pleased that a unanimous committee has pointed out the interesting cooperation action between Østfold County and the Østfold College to start interdisciplinary further training for the treatment of stroke patients. I hope this starts in 1999. Finally, the Bondevik government believes that next year’s appropriations will provide an increase in the activity of hospitals, and that this is the best health effort of the time. It's not right in all of the counties. For Eastfold, next year's appropriations will give 4,000 fewer treated patients, no more. There has been a major reorganization, streamlining and accumulation of emergency preparedness, which has given rise to increased activity in recent years. But until next year, there has been no need for the excesses, and has to go back to 1995 levels again. The waiting lists, approaching 20,000, will increase further. A majority of the county, with the exception of the Right, Left and Advance Party, will not be able to reduce the processing capacity in order to balance the budget. The 50 million. kr, which is missing, also triggers 50 million. kr by the State. I agree with the Minister of Health that it is now right to await the budgetary procedure in the counties. The last word in this case is hardly said, but I agree that it is necessary to make the poor economy of the county visible.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e102	The two framework areas we're discussing here today are typical areas where it's easy to operate black paint when you describe problems, if you like. They're full of individual things, individual people who might not get the help we would like them to get, and it's easy for the opposition, if one wants to, to point to the state councils and say that here you have a responsibility. It may be tempting for the opposition to approach this sector with black paint or with over-the-counter, and I think it was the opposition then, the current position, that was doing the time in the last period. In this way, I'm going to try to help ensure that at least something good comes out of the government shift, namely that we get a more responsible opposition here in the country. Despite the shortcomings, which are easy for us to point out, it will also be until next year that we have a health sector that, despite its shortcomings, is among the best in the world, and is primarily organized in such a way that everyone gets a good offer and an equivalent offer. In the social sector, we will also provide for next year a policy of deflation which, for the most part, is far behind for what we can refer to here in the country. That is why it becomes a joint responsibility and a joint task for the opposition and the position to follow up the good plans that have been adopted, largely unanimous, in the Stortinget – some on a proposal from our government, some on a proposal from the sitting government. So it's a common responsibility to follow up in those areas, because we're going to take such a big leap. We're going to take a big boost in cancer care. We're going to take a very big leap in psychiatry, where we're going to have the biggest financial outflows in the future, and we're going to make a big leap in terms of the fixed medical system, and in terms of the seniority reform. It is disappointing that some of the reforms are being pushed on, because there has been such broad consensus about them, and because we should be able to agree on, because perhaps even to some extent to increase respect for the work done here in the house, that adopted reforms and adopted programmes should be followed up. Of course, particularly disappointing is the failure of the older reform, a reform that all parties ran on in the election campaign, to which we all pointed out was one of the most important things to bet on, to which we should give priority. So now it's going to be a reduction of 2,100 places. So the Social Minister tries to hide in the skirts of the municipalities and blame the municipalities and lack of planning. But that's not the case. It was already clear in the 1997 decision that if some municipalities were not able to implement the plan for the four years, it would be possible to extend the period somewhat. That's not what this is all about. It's the government that proposes to build 2 100 places less than the progress plan, and it would be more honest to admit it than to blame the municipalities. Then we see that the distribution policy, if we can call it that, now makes it more tax on disease through the increased excesses that come, to achieve other goals. In the same direction, the sick pay goes. State councillor Kleppa said on 11 January this year that during her council term it was completely inappropriate to weaken the sickness pay system. It was in January this year, but that promise was not worth much. There, too, are the weakest to be hit. So those who have income below NOK 57,000 should not be entitled to sickness benefits. This means, among other things: a serious breach of the working line that has also been agreed upon, that we should try to make it possible for those with residual working capacity to participate in the working life. But that means, of course, that the many people who have a part-time job and who have small incomes are the ones who are going to be involved and pay the cost of promises in other sectors. In addition, it is the poorest, the least in the country, who are also hit hardest by the trend we have seen in interest rates. It's those who are in debt and who are in the start-up phase, who pay dearly for the unnatural interest rate that we have here in the country, which is different from other countries. That's why the distribution policy that these parties were pursuing before they came into government is going in the opposite direction today compared to what they said before taking over the government power.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e117	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e120	First of all, it is not possible to carry out reforms which have been adopted by a unanimous majority. Unfortunately, there is nothing new. Unfortunately, it has been so long. This may mean that many parties in the Grand Duchy are gradually forced to take on board the fact that some of the reforms they adopt, which are good and correct, cost more money than what you are actually willing to provide through the distribution policy and when the revenue is to be generated. Just as a speech to the last speaker. The reason I took the floor was that there were some posts before today that were about putting out competition in the care sector. It was shown in examples from Sweden. It is not only the representatives of the Progress Party who have been on a study trip to Sweden and Denmark – I have also been. I could say a lot about the experience in Denmark, but as the costs in Sweden were particularly high, I would like to say a little about it. In principle, costs in the Swedish care sector are much higher than in Norway. So it went in private companies and got costs down, but to a level that is still far above what is common in Norwegian nursing homes. I think we have to have that in the picture, so that we don't compare apples and pears. It is true that in some places this has become good, but it is also true that in some places it has become really bad. It has become so bad that old people have been lying down and actually neither food nor care, because here the purpose of making money in such a business has been the overall consideration of the users. I think you have to be a realist when you start counting kroner, and realize that the Norwegian price level of these services is actually low. That's not good, because in many places it's too bad a care factor, and we're too bad with many of our old people in many hospitals. Doing it better will cost more money. So to a point that's taken a lot of care of me in the last few days, and that's the biased distribution that comes out of this budget. One of the issues that bothers me the most, and that affects the poorest, is that the introduction of cash support has not protected the social welfare recipients from having social assistance curtailed when they receive the cash support. I could imagine asking the Minister of Social Affairs, as she is here, if she would like to take the floor and answer whether this was included in the calculation from the beginning, and whether the Government might consider changing this system when they are now going to submit a message to Difference Norway. Because there's something that's really going to do a bad twist for Difference Norway, it's that you pay out so many thousands of dollars without any need test to people, no matter how much money you have, and that the very poorest of us, who have to go and ask for help to cope with the stay of life, shouldn't be able to get these heads unabated. I think that's petty.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e131	It's dramatic when it's despite the fact that we've got about. 1 200 new medical positions in Norway over the last three years, although there has been a reduction of six doctors in the Nordic region. The Education Committee has therefore pointed out in its budget statement that it is necessary to implement measures to improve the medical situation in North Norway. We know that training doctors in the country is one of the best steps we can take to fill the vacancies. It is therefore gratifying that the Government found room to start the development of the Regional Hospital in Tromsø in connection with the budget for the autumn. But at the same time, I would like to stress that there is no reason, either for the Government or the Storting, to rest on their laurels for that reason. The University of Tromsø made the assumption when they said yes to increased admissions in the autumn, that they first needed the development of the Regional Hospital in Tromsø, which has now been promised. But both the Tromsø Regional Hospital and the Medical and Health Engineering at the University need further development. This is also underlined by a broad majority of the Education Committee. Many around the country have responded to the plans for medical training at the Central Hospital in Akershus. I am also concerned that this will lead to problems in recruiting professionals for medical training in other regions. However, the medical training plans at the Central Hospital in Akershus have received support in Stortinget, and we have asked for the matter to be brought back at the next state budget. At the same time, all parties in the educational committee's position agree to assume that medical training in Akershus does not have a negative impact on medical training in other parts of the country, with particular reference to the situation in North Norway. A unanimous social committee also proposes that increased admissions at other universities be assessed at the same time as the assessment of education at SiA. In the case of dentists, the situation in North Norway is, if possible, even more precarious than for doctors. The coverage is small and the penetration is large. There is concern that many of the Swedish dentists will disappear to Sweden now when they are put there on the funding of dentists. With today's educational capacity in Norway, we know that in 2015 there will be a shortage of between 500 and 600 year-olds in Norway. In any case, there is a need to increase the educational capacity of dentists. If you choose to expand where dentists are trained today, in Oslo or Bergen, it will in any case require investment, such as for example. new construction. A working group has been set up to assess this. In my view, there should be no doubt that the increase in capacity should come in Tromsø. I do not expect a clear and clear response from the Council of State Højbråten, but I hope that you can still agree that dental training in Tromsø may at least be a necessary measure to increase access to dental practitioners in Norway, and that you will come back to this matter as soon as the working group that has been set down is finished.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e146	The President reminds us that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e149	Let me just briefly comment – that it is a pleasure to record the Workers' Party's concerns about the budgets of Norwegian hospitals. What's amazing is that when the Workers' Party itself put in government, we never heard of such concerns from this pulpit. Then there were others who were concerned. It wasn't the working party. We get to hope that this continues, so that we can get more resources for our hospitals. At least it must be part of and contribute to the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e154	Psychiatry is a neglected field. It is a paradox because more recent reports show that every fourth of the North has, has had or will have mental problems. There are still many myths associated with mental illness, and often it is a human condition that makes use of professional help when a mental illness has occurred. It's time for an effort to bring about a change in attitude to the problem of mental suffering. It may be at least as stressful to be classified and stigmatised by so-called healthy persons as it is to stand without an offer appropriate to the nature of the disease. Measure No. 1 must be respect for the patient, and to strengthen and make use of the patient’s own experience. It is not difficult to understand the patient's sense of power solution if all reactions are met with diagnostic-related answers. Psychiatry needs modernisation with emphasis on the right of individuals to be heard in a community when it comes to living, working and necessary auxiliaries in everyday life. I'm glad that municipal services need to be strengthened. The support system needs massive expansion, especially to provide support for people with mental disorders, so that they can get out of isolation. It's the right thing to bet on municipal provision. But there is reason to remind you that the psychiatric hospitals and outpatient clinics today in many cases have to print patients before they have completed treatment. It may take a long time to obtain treatment in the absence of emergency treatment. There is reason to follow developments closely with psychiatric hospitals and outpatient clinics, so that we do not stand up in a situation where the response chain to patients is still weak. I find reason to remind you that several long-term wards in psychiatric hospitals have a standard that can make even healthy and robust people depressed. It is unworthy and directly irresponsible to fellow humans who need treatment and care for a short or longer period of time. A bet is needed now that not a large part of the billions will be needed to help the users at the end of the scheduled period. 400 million. kr for the next year of 24 billion kroner in eight years shows that the Minister of Health said in news reports yesterday that he had now got the Stortinget on a big stake, was something hollow. If he had seen more into it, could happen the annual vows, and especially for next year, have been considerably larger. It had benefited the patients.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e168	At the bottom of this debate, let me comment on a couple of statements and questions that have come from the Labour Party. First to the price adjustment of the host municipality bill: It is interesting to note that when the central government within a budget of $9 billion in intrusions to follow some of the former workers party governments' proposals, the working party is out with the strongest criticism. I'm concerned with the host municipalities' situation. I mention in my post a working group that assesses the costs of specific resource-requiring clients. It provides a setting for the department before Christmas, and, as I said in my post, will look at both inputs and other financial arrangements. Then I'm encouraged by the representative Britt Hildeng to answer questions related to the basic regulation of the population. She pointed out that in connection with the social security settlement, the Storting asked the Government to discuss the procedures for the basic regulation with the parties. I can inform you that the meeting will take place at the end of January. Otherwise, I notice that the representative Britt Hildeng seems to give this government responsibility for previous social security and subsequent under-regulation of the basic amount. I expect her to ask herself if it is who has been responsible for the organisation of the social security settlement for several years in the 1990s. Then she has also asked me to cancel the suspicion that the government's proposal for under-regulation of the basic amount of 0.3 is firm, and when proposals for the withdrawal of a day off and the extension of the employer's period lapse. Let me stretch there under something that has also been mentioned before today. The government laid down in its budget a basic regulation that would be consistent with other income developments. Once the proposal for the withdrawal of a holiday and the extension of the employer's period has now been rejected, the Government will return to it, without being bound by its previous proposal, in the context of the social security settlement in accordance with the provisions on which the Storting has based.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e181	The representative John Alvheim made a brief visit to the Workers' Party. I think there's been a mystery here in the hall today – and maybe it's been there before. The party to the advance has cut large transfers to the county municipalities, and although some of these funds are obviously returned through enhanced price financing, net losses and losses for county municipalities amounting to several billion kronor. Nevertheless, the Progress Party says that the county councils as hospital owners will have improved financial conditions. Hospital operations shall obviously profit from this. No, this isn't possible. The inconsistency in the budget of the Progress Party shows just that there is no coherence in the policy of the Progress Party, and that this is revealed by this very example that Mr Alvheim has brought in today. The cuts in county municipalities are now under way, affecting the health sector. We can see that. And it would be even more dramatic if you were to base the budget of the Progress Party. I believe in this context that the Progress Party will have an increasing credibility problem and at least an impossible documentation task to actually justify that their health policy will lead to something good for our patients.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e186	There have been criticisms from several speakers in this debate about the distribution profile of the Government's budget and the proposal for a settlement. Some of the speakers of the Workers' Party have produced it in such a way as to give the impression that the Workers' Party itself has never even proposed restrictions on welfare schemes. It must be allowed to recall the welfare message and the treatment of the Stortinge, where exactly one of the elements was involved. I believe that giving priority to neglected areas in the healthcare system is good distribution policy. Prioritizing psychiatry – and here I record that there is full support for new 400 million. kr as a start to the psychiatry movement – is the broad connection to this room. That's good distribution policy. We start in this way and on this scale, in line with what was in the adopted escalation plan, namely a cautious phase-in at first, a steeper phase-in after-sale for the sake of the personnel situation. Investing in the neglected area of cancer treatment is a good policy of sharing. With regard to probabilities, I must say that there are such clear signs in previous government budget proposals that some speakers should be somewhat more cautious about criticising the self-proposals of this government. The representative Konglevoll addresses very important questions about medical and dental coverage, which have a lot of attention on our part. I agree that investing in medical training in Tromsø has been one of the most important and successful tools to increase medical coverage in North Norway. That is why it has been so important for me to step up the capacity of medical training precisely in Tromsø. I'm glad we got a start on it. What I want to do in the future is that we don't set the different parts of the country against each other to such an extent, because both the system of psychiatry and cancer care needs will require significant increases in medical coverage in the future. In addition to increased training capacity, continued recruitment is required outside the country’s borders. Incentives are required to make working in rural areas more attractive. We will reinforce that as a result of this budgetary procedure. A stronger state governance of medical coverage is required, and we get that through the law that Odelstinget has been invited to adopt later this evening.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e201	I didn't get a chance within the time I had to answer all the questions. One of them was from the representative, Karin Andersen, and the blatant relationship between cash support and social assistance. There I can confirm that the starting point for both the Minister of Children and Family and me was enough at first, when we had the first insight into this, that the cash support should be kept out, just as we also liked it when it was a crazy child's security. We then conducted certain investigations around the municipalities when the level of social assistance itself was blatant, and found out that in this round, in the revised guidelines for social assistance, we had to focus on getting some more common criteria that meant a slightly more common level of social assistance, and then I can confirm that we are coming back to an assessment of this in the big news of living conditions. Finally, I would also like to say that I notice that there are strong words here about a missing distribution profile of today's government. I think there is a need to mute the use of words at least a little bit. I participated in the Storting during the two-and-a-half-year treatment of the welfare report. There is no doubt that there were solid restrictions on both some of the single carers and women, for example. in the case of pensions. If I don't remember completely wrong, LO's Esther Kostøl characterised the welfare message from the Workers' Party as hostile to women. Those were strong words. I don't repeat them now, but I want to challenge all parties that are occupied by a more fine-looking security network for the most difficult people in our country, that we work together to find solutions that make everyday life easier for more people, and that we find suggestions and solutions that last for a while.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e210	I am pleased that the Council of State now said that she would assess the cash support against shortening the social assistance when coming back with the message this year. And that's because it's necessary, especially when you hear that both the Minister for Children and Family Affairs and the Minister for Social Affairs had initially thought differently than it was, and that hopefully they would have thought that it was most important to protect the poorest, those who had the least. And there, SV supports the government, if it is able to get to it. But that's in the context that we're starting to wonder what's happened to this government. Because initially you thought well about distribution. Many of these arrangements were thought very correctly. Then something has happened along the way that has made it possible to shield the richest with zero kroner in tax and tax increases. But you've ended up with e.g. to allow some municipalities to reduce social assistance against cash support, to increase the proportion of the excess, and also to provide a local government budget where the municipalities have to increase their ownership and taxes, etc. to be able to balance their budgets. So when SV criticizes this government's distribution profile, we do it with good conscience, because we've meant it all along. We meant it when the Workers' Party put it in government, we mean it now, and we're going to mean it next year as well. I most criticise this government because I miss it instead of pointing to others and the Workers' Party and saying that they are worse than us, going in and recognizing the changes in distribution that have occurred now, and that it has actually hit some of the weakest. Then you'd better say that this is how it happened, but next time we're going to do better, and then we're going to fight for these. I fear that we have a heavy job, because they have signed up in agreements that make it probably not what is at the top of the agenda. But I miss the fact that you recognize the actual effects of the budgets you have submitted, as well as the changes in the rules you have made. Governments were involved in the welfare notification. It is true that when it was dealt with, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Centre were together to criticise the Workers' Party for the changes that have taken place, especially in relation to the lonely caregivers. But now the problem is that when these changes in the rules come into effect, this government is not there with its government from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, and it takes the lonely caregivers and makes sure that the arrangements that were to take over and offer them other than transitional benefits are up and going well enough, so that the lonely caregivers do not come out worse. This means that the Workers' Party was affected by the changes in the welfare notice, which weakened the offer, and this government is involved in weakening the new measures which, after all, were adopted and which were to be replaced by the transitional benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e221	I also miss – when going into the sick pay scheme – a certain recognition that one has actually chosen one group, namely those with the lowest income. And no one is particularly surprised that these are very much also women, women who are weak. And that's why there's also been relatively little trouble. But at the same time, I've wanted to believe that Social Minister Kleppa may just have thoughts for these people, based on the previous profile we've experienced here in Stortinget. So I have to say that I am very disappointed that that train is running, and that these women who already have little income and are weak in the labour market are being deprived of rights and will get it very difficult in case of long-term illness. If, for example: cancer, and one who then also loses his income, can actually risk having to leave home. That's the way it is. So a little bit about the psychiatry. Fortunately, the Minister of Health has now reduced his own role in the psychiatry action plan. There's quite a lot of work behind there. Usually it is that a big message is promoted that discusses the principles. It was also done this time. I think that's the most honest big message I've ever read, it solved all the problems and put it on the table: here we have to do something. So it's common for one then to promote an action plan. That's what the Højbrätt has done, and he's going to be honored for that. But it was actually after the pressure of a unanimous staging. All parties agreed that we now had to have a lift and an escalating plan. So here we're a lot of people who've been together, and then I hope there'll be a lot of people who'll follow up. So to the self-esteem increases, to me, the logic becomes a little weird when you say that you've had self-esteem increases before, and it's going to be so much better when you raise them further. That's a little bit of a special logic. What was a little special this year was that there was a proposal for an increase of 20 pst. on the so-called roof, and that is a formidable increase of one year! But in addition, we have the problem that many people have had in the debate, that with the community structure that exists, it is to be feared that weak groups, people with chronic disorders, sick and elderly people, get significantly increased proportions and increased taxes, because the municipalities have to get money to get it all to go together. The sum of this I think therefore makes it very difficult. There will be a tax on disease, on which the whole committee is involved to the extent.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e230	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[See page 1178]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e244	I take the floor in this case because I will just briefly clarify what the Committee believes with the remark that: ‘it is important for the Ministry to ensure quality that there is no discrimination against the cases dealt with or before the Committee on Cheapity Compensation’. In this case, the special group that this case is about, that is, those that were involved in this experiment at the Radium Hospital, is nothing else.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e255	Let me first express my pleasure at the fact that this matter is finally being clarified. I should also like to comment briefly on the point in the wording that the rapporteur has now made clear, that it is important that the Ministry of Quality ensures that there is no discrimination against the issues dealt with or dealt with by the Committee on Credits. I understand the setting so that the committee is concerned with avoiding duplication. It will be taken care of. Otherwise, it is to say that it has been added to a special arrangement with the special nature of the matter. It differs in so many respects from the ordinary lavishness compensation scheme that it is appropriate for an independent assessment to be made on the basis of special criteria. I also assume that if some of the women wanted to have their case tried for the Billing Replacement Committee at a later stage, it would be rejected, insofar as it concerns the same relationship. It may also be that some will be tried in court, and if she wins, the compensation she has been awarded by the Ministry may be deducted from the sum of the compensation. With regard to the payment of compensation, a start will be made immediately after the Storting has taken its decision. The compensation committee has already issued preliminary offers to the beneficiaries, with reservations both on the approval of the department and on the grant decision of the Stortinge. Finally, I would like to highlight the importance of having these matters processed quickly. As you know, it has taken a long time from the case first to come up, until now, as we are getting closer to the time when the case was closed. The time aspect has undoubtedly been an additional burden on those involved, and I hope now to be able to start the compensation payments in accordance with the preliminary offers made, based on the Storting decision here today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e268	I believe the Minister of Health and I have a common understanding of the group that this is about. I am also pleased that the Minister of Health points out that this will now be done quickly, because we have to admit that this has taken so long that a number of people have actually died along the way. I am therefore very pleased that the Minister of Health says that this will now be settled quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e275	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1212]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e289	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1213]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e303	Just a short comment, as I mention the proposals from the Progress Party, which is included in the vote. Despite the fact that all county municipalities had completed their plans to start methadone treatment early in the new year, very few municipalities – if any – have started this treatment until now. In Oslo, where the largest project is located, which was to provide treatment to 350 clients, there are per Today approx. 200 clients treated with methadone. As far as I have been able to register, there is largely a lack of resources that has resulted in no initiation of methadone treatment across the country. The very high numbers of overdose deaths we now experience may result from this. I think many drug users could have been rescued from overdose death if they had received methadone treatment. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it is now imperative to use the resources available to us, to treat methadone, to save young people’s lives — people who live on heroin and have done so for very many years. The Progress Party therefore proposes that it should be capped in the present setting. 614 Item 63 additional appropriations are granted for 13 million. kr made transferable for methadone treatment. Such an amount may be used when county authorities are gradually starting their methadone treatment, hopefully in the first half of 1999. In addition to transferring the main building on Vensmoen to a total of 6 300 m2 as well as 20 other buildings to the municipality of Saltdal, the Grand Duchy is going to grant a grant of 19 million. kr to restore the abandoned building mass. I must say that this is really a great gift – yes, such a great gift to this municipality that the Progress Party will not be in it. I also find it strange that the department seems more or less to have promised that this municipality will not only receive the building mass, but will also receive a significant amount for the restoration of the same building mass. I understand less the argument that it was very difficult to dispose of these buildings. I don't know what the ministry has done to try in that way, but the Minister of Social Affairs can explain that here and now. I would like to believe that if these buildings had been outsourced for normal sale to the highest bidder, it would have been possible to get a few kroner for the building mass instead of leaving it to the municipality, which in turn imposes a condition to take over this gift for a total of 19 million. NOK to enable the building mass to be restored as required by the municipality. It is strange that a majority of the committee has agreed to this. It's not a small amount – 19 million. NOK is quite a lot of money also in a government budget. It's actually more than the government parties, the Right Party and the Advance Party managed to redispatch in this year's budget. I believe that the rapporteur in Saltdal is a very happy person when he sees that this decision has been made in Stortinget. I do not know which party this rapporteur belongs to, but he has a very good point when he is going to the election campaign for the autumn. Of course, the Progress Party will vote against the proposed allocation on top. 673 heading 61. The progress party also wonders about the proposed savings on cap. 739 Other expenditure — a chapter that has been used for the so-called operating agreements with specialists, and that there should have been under-exploitation of funds here, when at the same time we know that a significant number of private specialists have not reached operational agreements with the respective county municipalities and today have to work without agreements — some as business doctors, others as general practitioners in private practice. This does not indicate that the Government has been particularly concerned with meeting their needs for operating agreements that have been known to exist. I also remind you here of the somewhat amazing treatment given to specialists who have reached the age of 62. I then, as I said, take up the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e331	John I. Alvheim has addressed the suggestions to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e334	It has been very instructive for me to be the case rapporteur for this case, not because I disagree with the Government's position as it exists, but on the contrary because I am now standing here as the only one who agrees with it. So the government parties do not support their own government. I'm the only one who can say here: ‘This member agrees with the re-disposal priorities undertaken by the Government and promotes the following proposals:...’;» So the only person who promotes this proposal from the Government is me on behalf of SV. That's the way it is when you have a minority government. You have to look for a majority where it is to pick up, and that means you have to go against the support you get from SV. It would have been good to know when you were the case rapporteur, that there were actually suggestions from a very different team, but SV would nevertheless take up the proposal that the Government initially had. SV sees that the government parties will not support it and will, of course, regret it, but the proposal is promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e346	Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e349	I could ask for the word to thank you for at least one of them, but what makes me think I can say a few words is the contribution to the committee's leadership. He pointed out something very important when it comes to methadone-assisted rehabilitation: why does not the development and organisation of a nationwide supply go even faster? Within this chapter, it's now worth 40 million. kr. They are used for the establishment and operation of specialized centres both in Trondheim, Bergen and Oslo. There are also plans in progress for the three counties of Buskerud, Vestfold and Telemark, in consultation with the Agder counties. So by the turn of the year, there will be about 200 clients receiving treatment. In fact, some would say that in parts of the country this has gone unexpectedly fast. I myself was present when Bergen formally opened its clinic at the beginning of November, and they were content with the progress they have been able to make, both when it comes to looking for qualified staff to be added, and when a plan is put in place around the client, at the same time that more and more people are being taken in. It's probably the same for the other centers. Because at least to contribute something to the local authorities' plans for the individual – which is thus a very decisive requirement for the ability of the person who receives this provision to be closed – and to clarify something that may seem inexorable when it comes to liability, the state covers the methadone expenditure from 1 September, so that the municipality of the individual’s home is not burdened with it. I understand that here's a laziness, and I know it myself. Here's an outrage in the Storting. Here, of course, is an outrage to the heaviest drug addicts, as this is true, and to their closest relatives. However, in order to secure an offer that can help the individual, it would be necessary to step up. Both competences and instruments of action must be developed at a pace that ensures that the individual receives the necessary follow-up. So a few words about Vensmo. I am pleased to be supported in the Social Committee for the solution chosen here. I would like to admit that I went to the matter with the intention that not both a property should be transferred and sent with funds in addition. But I have great respect for the work done over a long time in the ministry, long before my time, to try to clarify this huge mass of buildings. Several attempts have been made when sal is applied to parts of the buildings. A part of this complex has been taken care of as protective buildings, and it has been done well for the costs that it would entail for the maintenance that has subsequently become heavily required. So I hope now that we have found a solution that can be good both for the future government budget and for the municipality of Saltdal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e362	Until the last Minister of Social Affairs spoke about Vensmoen: it is not possible to reach a protective decision for Vensmoen, but it is considered whether to enter and protect some of the houses – at least it is not decided as it stands in the proposition that we have to deal with today. I have a question for the Social Minister. All in twelve hours, something strange happened in the committee. Cape. 614 entry 63 was proposed by the Government to maintain with 6.9 million. kr. This was supposed to be for the after-care of drug users, and it was said quite clearly: you can use this money – here you can spend money, use it for something positive and transfer it. Then it's weird that when we're going to give it up, you're going to transfer 1.5 million. kr of this sum of money for grants to abstinence organisations. I would like to ask if the Minister of Social Affairs really believes that this is a reasonable use of the money. All of a sudden, you can just transfer 1.5 million. kr to the abstinence organisations, which were not included in the proposition in advance, but which came later, when even said that the funds set up for post-protection could be used and would be used in a reasonable way? Is that how the Social Minister will pursue drug policy in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e369	The rapporteur is fully entitled when he points out poor communication in connection with the amendment proposed by the government parties, the Labour Party and the Right, in this setting, which has led SV to stand alone on what was the original proposal of the Government – and which the case-rapporteur has been elegantly able to point out from the speaker. The rapporteur knows the background, namely the time pressure associated with the simultaneous budgetary procedure. Nevertheless, the case rapporteur should have been informed at an earlier stage, and that should have been my responsibility, so it should have been done. With regard to the case itself, which the representative Nesvik was also involved in here, there is basically only one question of choice between two good purposes: the allocation of funds to two aspects of the same case, namely the prevention and after-protection of drug damage. We all know that efforts are needed in both areas. More dramatic is not really in the content of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e376	I received a question from the representative of Nesvik. For the first time, I want to confirm that the Government has submitted a proposal to use 6.9 million. extra kr to strengthen the rear-view protection. It is a topic that was also discussed here on 1 December. There is a need for reinforced follow-up protection to ensure that more of those who come out after treatment for their drug use are followed up more than they are today. Fortunately, after the budget adopted, there will now be more possibilities for doing so in 1999. I'm looking for the re-priorities that the plurality of the social committee here has done. As the representative of Nesvik is aware, I am also committed to strengthening the prevention work before this area. In this way, I would say that when funds were to be re-prioritized first, I do not have strong objections to the fact that there were abstinence organisations that they received this time. But the government's starting point is on the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e381	I wondered a little about the answer that was given at the end. Because what the social minister here is saying is that it's a hippie that likes whether it goes to the sober society or whether it goes to post-protection, and when a re-prioritisation happened, it was a good thing that went where it went. I thought that when the Minister of Social Affairs puts forward a proposition for the Storting on the re-moving of money, it applies in the areas that the Minister of Social Affairs believes it is right to do so, and because there is a need. When it is said that after-sales protection is strengthened within the 1999 budget, the abstinence organisations are also strengthened in the same budget. The thing is, there's a screaming lack of after-protection, and it did something to the Minister for Social Affairs and put in $6.9 million. NOK, but then this is changed to SEK 5.4 million. kr. And that's what I asked the Minister for Social Affairs, is this what you want to do in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e389	Let me make it quite clear that the government proposed 6.9 million. kr for after-sales protection. The Social Committee made an assessment. The majority claimed another priority. That's what I'm correcting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e394	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1215]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e413	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1217]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e432	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1218]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e440	We then start voting on case No. 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e475	For once there is a need for a brief explanation of vote. This is the point of the motion for a resolution put forward by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities on behalf of the Committee on Right will support the proposals with the exception of proposal No. 11, which is on a 80 p.m. unit-price financing, with our proposal No. 14 is an alternative to that -- not so much different, but a little more flexible. So in the case of proposal No. 10, we'll vote for it. Exempting all public hospitals by 2001 and converting them into foundations or limited liability companies is fully supported by the Right. But we are waiting for the investigation now to come, and we would like to make it clear that we do not regard foundations and limited liability companies as the only possible forms of company that can be imagined when hospitals are to be released.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e482	Several have not asked for the floor for an explanation of vote, and we are ready for voting. We start with proposal No. 16, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for an alternative scheme to the current waiting list guarantee scheme, the aim of which is to improve treatment capacity in each health region through a capacity guarantee for each of the disciplines to be addressed by each of the health regions.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e496	Proposal No. 11, from the Progress Party, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government from 2001 to finance hospitals by means of a direct price financing for each patient with 80 pst.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e509	I voted incorrectly, I thought one started with proposal No. 10th@item: inlistbox Proposal No. 11 we should vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e516	Proposal No. 11 was to be right-wing. Are there any others who have voted incorrectly for that reason? It seems to be. Then we'll take the vote again. So this is proposal No. 11, from the Advancement Party, it's being voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e528	Proposal No. 14, from the Right, taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘a. The government asks the government to submit proposals for direct government funding of public hospitals through its own hospital budget. b. The decision asks the Government to take the initiative in the private development and operation of hospitals on behalf of the public in accordance with a tendering principle. c. The share of the unit price of the input-driven funding is paid directly to the hospital/treatment site in question and increased to at least 60 pst from 2001. The size asks the Government to assess the possibility of a more flexible unit price rate in the light of variations in the relationship between fixed and activity-related costs associated with different treatment provision.’ Here the President assumes that the Progress Party will vote in favour now that their proposals have fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e551	Proposals Nos. 10, 12 and 13, from the Progress Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to release all public hospitals by 2001 and to convert them into foundations or limited liability companies.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government requests approval by the Government of private hospitals and institutions in line with public policy.’; Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the input-based financing of hospitals is paid directly to the hospital/treatment site.’ Here the Right has announced that they will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e579	Proposals Nos. 8 and 9, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, to voting. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to take the initiative in negotiations with the Municipality of Oslo on the state takeover of the Sunnaas Hospital.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess as soon as possible the need to associate the new Rikshospital with a larger plot area than is the case today in view of the future expansion of the hospital.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e600	Proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size refers to the action plan for the care of the elderly, cf. St.meld. [[1996-97]] No 50 and Innst. [[1996-97]] S. No 294 and ask the Government to implement the action plan in line with the four-year timetable adopted by a unanimous increase.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e615	Proposals Nos. 1-5, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the price and salary adjustment of the grant to the host municipalities of the former HVPU institutions in the 1999 Revised National Budget, so that adjustments can be made in the usual way.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose changes to the rules so that accompanying persons with blind and weak minds get reduced ticket prices for public communications services, regardless of whether they are spouses.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to assess experimental activities with the fixed medical system in municipalities that are expected to have particularly severe recruitment difficulties. The aim of the testing activities shall be to test instruments in these municipalities which are believed to be recruiting and stabilising for primary health services.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that breast-feeding aid is provided in 1999 at the same level as in 1998. The funds are distributed according to the amount available in cap. 719.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that uniform information is provided to women seeking abortion in line with the provisions of the law throughout the country.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e651	Now there are minority proposals within the budget framework, and we start with proposal No. 15, from the Socialist Left Party, which is therefore within the framework area 15. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e6135	There is a proposal from the Labour Party, proposal No. 6, which reads: ‘I. The 1999 budget provides for: Chapter.PostDestinationCronesCronesExpenditure600Ministry of Social Affairs and Health [[(see section 4.4). cap. 750)]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e8880	The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution outside the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e8890	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e8910	Here the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e8965	Here the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e9008	Then we will move on to the 16th framework and we will also start here with minority proposals outside the framework of the budget. Proposal No. 21, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government not to extend the reference price scheme for blue prescription medicines to include new medicines until current practice has been evaluated.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e9022	Proposal No. 19, from the Right and Socialist Left Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to amend the current reference price system, requiring a delivery capacity of 95 pst. in order to enable a supplier of medicinal products to be included in the reference pricelist of the medicinal product concerned.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e9036	Proposal No. 17, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a review of the economic functioning of the total expenditure on equity in the health and care sector for those users, as a result. their health situation requires a great deal of medicaments, goods and services covered by excesses. It also asks the Government to draw up proposals for protection rules which take into account the total costs relating to excesses in relation to income and in relation to the needs for services, etc. The size request that this be available before possible. are being proposed for new increases/extensions of the system of accruals.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e9050	Minority proposals are now being addressed within the budget framework. Proposal No. 20, from the Socialist Left Party, to the frame area 16 is taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e11603	There is an alternative proposal from the Labour Party, proposal No. 18, which reads:
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e12836	I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e12843	The vote was then put to the vote by 54 votes to 40, which was put to the vote. The proposal for a decision outside the framework of the budget is then put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e12855	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e12911	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e13802	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1 by John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 2, from Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e13910	There are two proposals here, one from the Progressive Party and the other from the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The 1998 budget shall be amended as follows: Cape. 614 Measures for drug users63Aids to drug interventions can be transferred, increased by NOK 13 000 000 from NOK 88 480 000 to NOK 101 480 000» Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The State budget for 1998 shall be amended as follows: Cape. 614 Measures for drug addicts21Special operating expenditure increased by NOK 100 000from NOK 20 750 000 to NOK 20 850 00063Aids to drug interventions can be transferred,increased by NOK 6 900 000 from NOK 88 480 000 to NOK 95 380 000.» First, there is a vote on the proposal by the Socialist Left and then, alternatively, between the vote and the motion by the Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14152	The Progress Party has announced that they will vote against this allocation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14502	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 1 December 1998: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider a system of prior approval of institutions for drug users.’ The whole committee is behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14518	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 1 December 1998: ‘The government asks the Government to assess the overall need for treatment facilities for drug users, including the need for after-care services.’ The whole committee is behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14540	This is therefore a letter from the Ombudsman for Civil Service Officers to the Presidency of the Grand Duchy. In this letter, the Ombudsman points out that the Ministry of Justice has, in the summer, changed the concept of civil service obligations for civil protection. The Ombudsman therefore proposes that the same should be done in the Stortingen’s instructions to our Ombudsman for civil servants and the Ombudsman’s representative for civil servants, so that we get a level playing field in the use of concepts. The majority of the Judicial Committee considers this to be entirely unproblematic and a follow-up to the Innst. S. No 177 for 1995-96, which was the suspension of the notification of civil service obligations. But the minority do not agree with that view, they believe that this is a more fundamental question and therefore oppose these changes in the instructions. Since this could be a long debate, and the same topic, the same issue, comes up later this evening in Odelstinget when we are going to deal with Innst. O. No 23 for 1998-99, I hope, as the rapporteur-in-Office, that we can take the full and the whole debate there, because then we will have the debate put into a wider context, where we also look at several aspects of civil service obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14551	The letter referred to by both the President and the President-in-Office of the Court of Justice does not fall into good soil with the Progress Party, because we stress that there is a significant difference between serving military protection and civil service. Military denial and pacifism should remain less well-considered in Norway and the concepts should be more nuanced than the Ministry and the majority of the Judicial Committee set up. Therefore, we believe that it is essential that the terms military protection and civil service should also be used in the future. Like the Right Party and the Center Party, which make up the minority, we oppose the conversion of the use of terms from «compulsory» to «compulsory» and therefore vote against the proposal for amendments to the second sentence of Section 1 of Section 2 of the instruction and Sections 4 to 6 of the instruction, as well as the heading of the instruction, which is the coin of the term of the obligation to protect.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14558	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1234]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14572	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 10 minutes each, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14581	With regard to the proposal to wind up church asylum, I would like to point out that there is a very old system, but it did not have any practical application in Norway in hundreds of years, until it reappeared a few years ago in connection with asylum applications. In recent times, there have also been situations in which the Nordics have applied for protection in churches. This has undoubtedly led to tensions, not only in terms of law and order, but also, for example, in terms of law and order. as regards the effect on the physical and mental health of children. Kirkeasyl is a system in which, naturally, it becomes difficult, not to say impossible, to uphold the fundamental rights of children. Kirkeasyl has also created difficult boundaries and doubts as to where the boundaries go for what is considered to be God's house, the holy space and secular buildings of the Church's own and in connection with the church building. It is important to stress that the system of church asylum has no legal place in a modern, democratic society. The system has never been accepted by political authorities as a legal system. In a letter of 17 November 1998 from the Minister of Justice, kfr. attachment. 1 to this setting, it says: ‘Church asylum is a concept introduced and defined by the Church. Church asylum is not a legal term. The Norwegian law applies within the buildings of the church, so the buildings of the church are not a ‘just space’.’This view is shared by the Committee. Another thing is that the police, out of respect for the peace of the church, have not gone in and by power picked up asylum seekers. The guidelines for this were sent from the Ministry of Justice to the police officers on 5 July 1993. We would stress that this does not imply any political or legal acceptance for the church asylum arrangement, but only that, as a general rule, one does not enter the church with physical power against the Church's own will. The majority of the committee, all except the Advancement Party, points out that the situation is different if the Church itself asks the police for help to retrieve unwanted church asylums. If there is a notification, of course, the Ministry of Justice has no opportunity to instruct the police in that case, in which case it is within the jurisdiction of the State Attorney. If there is no notification but only a request from the Church, the situation can be seen as an ordinary order problem. In that case, of course, the Ministry of Justice has the right to instruct the police. The fact that the Church is asking for assistance clearly shows that the Church itself does not believe that the peace of the church is being violated, and there is no reason why the authorities should not respect this, just as one respects the opposite. I assume, of course, that the request comes from the competent church authority – and it opens up a need for the ministry to clarify what is the competent authority of various church houses that may be relevant as a place of residence at church asylum. The Minister of Justice has clarified that ‘the room of the Church’, for example: do not apply to apartments and activity rooms associated with the church. It is important to note that the Minister of Justice's clarification that Churchasyl does not confer any right to amnesty and does not imply any acceptance in order to try to evade the decisions of the rule of law. Today's practice raises several open questions about when the police will or can intervene. This unexplained situation is very unfortunate and opens up to misunderstandings with significant consequences for both individuals and the community. We must state that the Church, by the bishops, has failed to provide a satisfactory clarification around the institution of church asylum. There is therefore a clear need for the Church itself to clarify its position, so that the problems and uncertainties that exist become permanent. As the Minister of Justice himself writes in his letter of 17 November 1998, there is no doubt that church asylum is a very unfortunate system, which also works randomly and unfairly. Against this background, the majority's strong call for the Church's responsible bodies to clean up the unfortunate practices of church asylum. Although, as a rule, the police are not allowed to enter the churches, situations that are so serious may have to give way to church peace — especially situations where children are involved. The majority of the Committee will not ‘disengage’ a mechanism that has never been put in place by the authorities. I repeat that it is not with the background of an established system, but with the background of respect for church peace that the police in the rule should not go in unsolicited. There are no formal rules or any established system that prevents the police from entering churches. I am also pleased that the Minister of Justice, through his letters and his consultation with the Committee, has been constructive in cleaning up, as far as it is possible for political authorities to clean up. In this context, the fact that the Minister of Justice himself significantly contributed to creating much of the confusion that has now been cleared up is of less importance after we have reached this broad consensus at the Committee's initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14616	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14619	The right likes to present itself as a law and order party, and has this in preventing crime as a fanatic. That is why many of us in the Advance Party – and also outside the ranks of the Advance Party – have reacted to the right acceptance of self-determination. And even though the rapporteur said a lot of fine words about the rule of law, he adheres to the opposite principle by accepting medieval life, when the empire ruled and there might be some sense in this with church asylum, which was then also short-lived. Many authorities also agree with the Progress Party. I'll quote what the police officer in Bergen, Rolf B. Wegner, thinks about this matter: ‘From the point of view of the democratic rule of law, there is hardly any need for a system of church asylum. The legal certainty of the person who has received an expulsion decision, a criminal conviction or other administrative decision against him is adequately ensured by the numerous guarantees of legal certainty provided by the State of law. There is no need to use the Church as an additional appeal." Then I will also quote from the Right Program, where, among other things. states that the right-hand priority is to do the following: ‘Encourage people who are illegally staying in Norway out of the country and strengthen the police’s ability to respond to such questions.’ Why don't the Right don't listen to the authorities in this matter? Why not follow up on their own programme? What are the signals to the population and to the Right’s potential voters?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14636	I think the representative Hedstrøm will find that the Right does not regard him or the Advance Party in general as the largest authorities, at least not in this area. What they are in other areas, we can do another time. The fact that he claims that we accept life from the Middle Ages, I cannot perceive in any other way than that he has not heard my post. I'm going to stick to what Chief Wegner said, and I have to be allowed to quote a little bit of my main post, where I said, ‘It is important to stress that the system of church asylum has no legal place in a modern democratic society. The scheme has never been accepted by political authorities as a legal regime.’ And I referred to the letter from the Minister of Justice, where this came out clearly. So it's not with the background of any practice or arrangement that we're going to leave to the Church itself to clean up the problem around church asylum, it's simply in respect of us having an independent church. I can also add that it is the Church that has messed it up, if I are to use a slightly disrespectful expression, in this matter. I don't think there's any reason why secular authorities should go in and clean up a situation created by the Church itself, and no one else. That's why an almost collective committee, except for those who consider themselves particularly competent, has taken the position that this is left to the Church, and we are waiting for the Church itself to come up with a solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14650	I will record what the case rapporteur has said. He wants to shift responsibility over to the Church. That means that we get a new appeal in the Norwegian community; it becomes the policy that takes place in each church, the definition given by the Church Peace in each church, which will be decisive. So I'm recording that the Right is going in to have different "legislation" from church to church, from Nordkapp to Lindesnes, in our country. And to those who have followed the way the Church has reacted and looked at the responsibility it should have in these matters: Let's go back to church and see what happened then. Well, the Church’s people clearly said that they expected this church asylum to be a passé. What happened at the Bishop's meeting this fall? The church had no constructive suggestions for solutions, not at all. You wouldn't limit the time for church asylum. You should talk to the church asylantes, it was said, and you didn't accept that the police intervened. So we haven't come one millimeter anymore. But I have registered in the right comments in the setting that they wanted to get some kind of church history assessment, a professional assessment. Would it have been able to change the Right's position on this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14655	To the last one: Of course, it would have been possible, if such an investigation had had a content that had provided the basis for such a change, but I have to bear in mind that this would be a very hypothetical question, as a total increase apart from the Right, but including the Advance Party has opposed such a review. With regard to the other questions, the representative Hedstrøm says that the Right will ‘move responsibility to the Church’. It's a pointless term, in my opinion. That's the Church's responsibility. And if I'm going to continue in that tone, I have to record that the Advance Party will not respect the Church's right of self-determination. And I'm sure a lot of people will notice that. With regard to the claim that there is now to be a difference between church and church, from North Cape to Lindesnes, there is a system that has been unfortunate. I cannot understand with which eyes you read the position of the majority unless you see that the committee expresses with very strong words that this is a system that we do not want to live with. But then there is the difference that we other people have confidence that when the Church's organs receive this strong call from a closely united Justice Department, the Church will take this matter into its own hands and really find a solution. It is the bishops first and foremost, the Church itself represented by the bishops, who have created this situation. It is, in respect of church peace and the Church's right of self-determination, the bishops and the Church itself that should clean it up. And there some of us obviously have more confidence in the Church than others. I and I obviously believe a majority in the committee that the Church will handle that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14669	I must say I am amazed that a party like the Right, which says that law and justice are important both to the Minister of Justice and to the people of the country, when it comes to asylum seekers and people who live in the churches on an illegal basis, says that it is the bishops who are to have the decisive authority, according to case-rapporteur Bjørn Hernæs. But in the case of the churches themselves, which have come into situations that are not viable for them, where asylum seekers have occupied churches against their own advice and wishes, what will the Right specifically do on that matter? Will they not listen to the churches, who will fill God's house with people who are interested in hearing the message as a sheep in the church, not people who have passed through courts and had their application for residence in the Kingdom of Norway refused? We see that in Holmen Church in Oslo they wanted the police to intervene. The right now notes that they are not going to do so, even though the community is asking for it. I think it's a shame that we have a party like Right, which is not interested in hearing what the church and those who use the church are interested in in in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14674	That the Progress Party wants to turn this debate on church asylum into a general immigration debate, I am only told. That's not what this is about. This is a clearly different interpretation of what is, and what should be, law and justice. The congregation itself should, of course, be in charge of this. There we have said in the setting – for those who bother to read it – that if there is a notification, there is a matter that the prosecution authorities have to deal with. If there is nothing but a call from the community, the Minister of Justice has the opportunity to instruct the police, and should do so if she believes that the matter is of such a nature that she will go beyond the framework that we, as a general rule, would recommend in such a situation. That Vidar Kleppe sees that there's a shame with a party like Right, we've heard that sometimes. Every time we discuss justice, the arguments of the Progress Party are so weak that they have to use both one and the other to tell us that the Right is the party of the criminals and the best friends of the criminals. Obviously, when you have so little power to argue with content, it's no wonder that there's a difference of opinion. But I want to establish that in this case as in other cases, there is of course no basis at all for such a claim. I understand the disappointment of the Progress Party that their proposals are suffering a relatively unblemished fate, but there can be no reason to get completely out of hand because of that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14682	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14685	Kirkeasyl is a system that does not belong in a modern, civilised state of law. In today’s Norway, there will be no need for such a scheme in any way. There is a system that I see that there may be a need to exercise when we talk about societies where there is dictatorship, when we talk about societies where the legal system is totally failing, when we talk about societies where the legal security of individuals is absent. Of course there are shortcomings in our society today, but they are not at all of such a category that it can defend the use of church asylum. Kirkeasyl, especially long-term residence in church asylum, has many unfortunate and tragic consequences, as well as the fact that it is obviously unfortunate for a society that some try to avoid legitimate decisions by going to church asylum. Those who sit in church asylum feel like going to prison on a voluntary basis. A lack of freedom of movement is voluntary and can best be compared with a prison stay. Those who sit there experience a terrible uncertain situation, an uncertainty about what the future really will bring. They are, of course, put on a passivity 24 hours a day without having anything reasonable, something proper to deal with and fill your life with. But not least, it has unfortunate consequences for the children who are in church asylum. These are children who have no independent choice, who cannot decide for themselves where they want to be, and what they want to do, and who are squandered quite so helplessly in the adult world. Although children in church asylum have always been allowed to move freely outside the church, and have been allowed to go to school and kindergarten and use the offers that may be, it is clear that the situation itself is a great burden for young people. I've seen it myself when I've been in contact with people sitting in church asylum. Therefore, it is also irrelevant for the Workers' Party to accept church asylum as a legal arrangement. We have even experienced through time that there has been no need for people in church asylum, because they have misunderstood what opportunities they have had, and have gone to church asylum, even though in no way necessary, because of statements – perhaps even propaganda in an uproared situation. We all agree that in a civilised, democratic society there is no room for church asylum. But the majority believe that there must still be room for respect for church peace. Also non-Christians or not especially religious know the special tranquillity and peace that reigns in a church room. There is reason to take care of it. It is not without reason that the past in the churches of old is called a house of arms. Not only should you put your weapons away there – also the symbolic thing in the act, that you should put away the use of power, the conflict and the conflict, it is worth caring for. But this peace must not be at all costs. It's no longer about peace if it's like the Church's own people are asking for help to get someone out of the church. When those who are going to manage this peace, even say that with church asylums in the church house we have no church peace anymore, there is of course nothing in the way that the authorities use power to get them out, after all peaceful methods have been tried first. The same is true of children. Of course, Norwegian child protection has the same responsibility for the young people who sit in church asylum and their woes and well, as it has for the young people who are Norwegian citizens or are elsewhere in Norwegian society. There may also be other special situations where it may be necessary to enter the churches, and where governments use power to take someone out. But each situation needs to be assessed separately, and we need to balance the use of power against protecting church peace. Now, of course, everyone has to comply with Norwegian law, and it is of course that Norwegian law and decision based on Norwegian law must also be enforced and followed up by the Church and in the church's room. That's the full agreement. But the question is whether Norwegian law and legally adopted decisions at any time and whatever the situation should be followed up and enforced by power in peaceful religious spaces. That is what the Progress Party is asking for in this proposal. And this is where the majority has a more nuanced view. We believe that respect for the good, the peaceful atmosphere is worth fending for, and that there is reason to tread gently in such spaces. The proposal uses the term ‘disengagement system with church azyl’. But it's going to be totally wrong. Politicians and Norwegian authorities cannot liquidate anything that has never actually been introduced. The proposal further states that church asylum should be discontinued ‘in order to allow the police to apprehend persons’. That access is there! We don't need any liquidation to have that access. It's right there today. But even if the access is there, it doesn't have to mean that it's always right to use that access. The use of power by authorities must not be exercised to a greater extent than is actually necessary. Of course, this is true in church asylum cases, as in all other situations in society. I welcome the letter of 17 November 1998 sent by the Minister of Justice to the Justice Committee. Here is a description of a view of the church asylum system, which is entirely in line with the views of the Workers' Party, and which is fully in line with the practice of the Workers' Party when we were in government. Even more liberating was the actual hearing of the Committee with the Minister of Justice, where the contents of the letter were confirmed and elaborated. We were confirmed that this was about the views and attitudes of the government of Bondevik regarding church asylum. It was the jam a timely clarification of the Government's position on the church asylum arrangement. So we have a government where both the Prime Minister and the Minister of State, when they were in opposition, made demands for solutions to the church asylum problem that were totally unsustainable and that would have given fatal consequences both to individuals and to the legal status of our society. I am therefore very relieved that the entry of the government parties into the government offices has contributed to the fact that both the and the leading individual customs now have a different attitude towards church asylum, which is fully in line with the view of the Workers' Party. But the Church must also take a responsibility and give a good answer as regards the respect for church peace that a majority wants to show. And the Church must give a much better answer than today's answer. The Church must play a more constructive role. I believe that the Church's people must make a stronger effort in relation to the extent of church asylum. You have to become more active to stop the scheme. The Church must simply get there that their views are more in line with the views of the authorities. The Church has a responsibility to provide correct and good information to people if they are housed. Mercy should be one of the Church's characteristics, but there's not much mercy in letting people ruin themselves, and letting people use destructive methods in hopes of achieving something better. It is not merciful to let people live in hopelessness and uncertainty or to let them live on false hopes, and there is not much mercy in helping people harm their own children. Compassion must be to help them in a difficult situation and not to consolidate and exacerbate a difficult situation. With this attitude that we are dealing with now, any ambiguity that might have been there about the view of the Storting and the authorities on church asylum should have been cleared up, and now the Church must also show that they take our respect for the peace of the church for real intelligence, and that they promise the responsibility that comes with it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14717	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14720	I record that the representative Tömerås does not accept the system of church asylum – that it has not been introduced, she says. But all of her posts are permeated by the fact that this is a state that we have there, that is concrete, that you have to deal with. And then I think it's alarming when she says that in some cases the police have access to intervene, so it's kind of no problem. But I think it's strange that a member of the Justice Committee says this, for the first to prejudice equality for the law should well be members of the Justice Committee – and the Minister of Justice. Otherwise, I thought it made a lot of sense in Tömerås' articles. It was characterized by humanity and human dignity and how humans could harm themselves by prolonged residence in church asylum. We have reports from psychiatrists that, after a long stay in the churches, especially children suffer reversible and irreversible injuries. And then I don't understand the representative Tömrås' position, because we can't demand the Church's representatives to be able to make a diagnosis, to be able to interpret whether children are developing psychological damage, etc.? So will not the Labour Party's position here in practice mean that the right solutions are not being found for the children and the weak who are in church asylum, who should have been in need of help in another way, and who might have been better off with the position of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14727	I did not say that the system is not there, but I said that the authorities and politicians have not introduced the church asylum system, because we have never accepted it and have never seen it as a legal system. In terms of equality for the law, that's exactly what we're going to try to do, and one of the reasons why we don't accept the system of church asylum is that we have to have equality for the law, that everyone should follow Norwegian law and then conform. But then the majority sees something that the Progress Party clearly does not see, namely that the authorities should not exercise power to a greater extent than is absolutely necessary. For some of us – fortunately most of us – the churches represent an atmosphere, a tranquillity and an atmosphere that has been there for as long as religion has existed, and about which it is worth fending about, where it is worth treading carefully, and where it can pay off that we are not stepping forward more than what is strictly needed. It disappoints me that the Progress Party does not see it, it disappoints me that those kind of values have no impact on that party, although it may not surprise me. As for the children, I just underlined the responsibility of child protection for the children who are in church asylum, in the same way as for all other children. And of course, as far as the Church's responsibility is concerned, the Church should not act as an analyst and psychologist, and should consider who should sit in church asylum and who should not sit in church asylum. The responsibility of the Church is from the first day to try to get all church syllables out of the church room, preferably before they even enter, through proper and good information and influence.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14738	After hearing the main post of the representative, I think it contained some contradictions, and the reason for this might have been to explain one's humanity to asylum seekers. It is important to note that a joint committee stresses that the system of church asylum has no legal place in a modern democratic legal society. That is what the representative also said in his introduction. The scheme is not accepted or approved by political authorities as a legal regime. The Justice Committee refers to the letter of the Minister of Justice of 17 November of this year, which reads: ‘Church asylum is a concept introduced and defined by the Church. Church asylum is not a legal term. The Norwegian law applies within the buildings of the church, so the buildings of the church are not a ‘just space’.’ When you drag in the church peace and you want it to weigh heavier than the Norwegian law, I ask certain questions. The majority, with the representative of Ane Sofie Tömrås in the front, reject the proposal of the Progress Party to wind up the system of church asylum practised, allowing the police to apprehend people independently of background, regardless of crime and regardless of the building in which they live. It can be seen that the Workers' Party here has a double morale, they conduct a policy that encourages church-asylans to continue to break Norwegian law, and as a reward you get to stay on a humanitarian basis in the country. It is in this way that the Labour Party believes that a human asylum policy should really be practised.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14756	If it is so that the representative Stang finds contradictions in my post, I think it must be due to his own skyscrapers. I have not said that the church peace should weigh more heavily than the Norwegian law, as the representative Stang claimed. On the contrary, we repeatedly emphasised, as stated in the vote, that Norwegian law should apply also in the Church, that everyone must comply with Norwegian law, and that in some cases the power must also be used to obtain effective decisions based on Norwegian law. But then to repeat it, the majority here in the Chamber, fortunately, believe that there is no greater need for power on the part of the authorities than there is an absolute need for it. That's why we say, there's full access to go into Norwegian churches and pick up church asylums, but that's not always necessary. And then you have to weigh the natural access to protect a church peace. This is not a question of double standards, as the representative, Mr Stang, said. This is actually about being able to have two thoughts in your head at once, and try to take off the skyscrapers that have stuck with someone.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14767	The representative of the Tömrås" position is that the peace of the church should be respected, but that on some occasions it should be possible for the police to intervene. She claims the tranquility of our churches, and that the Church's people can decide in these cases. Then my question becomes: What about non-Christian houses of God, should the same rights be given to those who run mosques, synagogues and Buddhist temples, as to those who run the churches? Here there are different opinions among professionals. In several Norwegian cities there are mosques, synagogues and Buddhist temples. One meaning is that in a society with full religious freedom that the Norwegian should not grant privileges to one religion over other religions. If one is to respect a church peace, one must likewise respect a mosque peace, a synagogue peace, and a temple peace. It would therefore be useful to know how this should be done in the light of the position of the representative, Mr Tömerås. Should church peace and equal treatment also apply in temples, synagogues and mosques?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14774	The answer, of course, is yes. I tried in my post to use neutral terms, but I may not have been nine-time enough. But it's clear that when we talk about a religious peace and quiet that exist in religious buildings, it's not only about buildings within the Norwegian Church, but also about other buildings where religious acts are performed and where this peace is found. But I have to distance myself from, as you ask, that they should be given the same rights, because this is not about giving any rights to the church. On the contrary, it is a matter of putting a responsibility on the Church and other religious communities that had to live in church-asylans. It is a matter of giving them a responsibility to ensure that these come out, and that they comply with Norwegian law and legally adopted decisions based on Norwegian law. It is a matter of giving them a responsibility to ensure that asylum-seekers provide information that is correct and relevant in the situation, and to make sure to influence them to understand that being confined in that way is not a solution to a difficult situation. It comes out in the position, as I said instead, that we are in favour of the use of power despite respect for a religious peace of the Church when those who are to manage peace have asked for it, when there are children inside the picture who need help, and more generally also in other situations where it turns out to be necessary. And then if situations arise, as the representative Hedstrom pointed out, with other religious societies that have different views of things than what is expressed in Norwegian law, yes, then of course the threshold for entering will also be lower. Here is an assessment in the individual situation that applies.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14785	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14788	It is said from the majority in this Chamber that church asylum is not introduced in Norway but that church asylum is a practice. Yes, church asylum is a practice that we have in Norwegian churches and churches today, which has become a problem for the churches that are dedicated to doing what they are supposed to do in the church, namely to preach God's Word, and then it is striking to see that one with the Christian People's Party at the head – and the Minister of Justice from there – will not take responsibility in this matter, even if she says in a letter to the Justice Committee on 17 November this year: ‘For the sake of order, it is underlined that it is not appropriate to give church asylums any special arrangements.’ The Minister of Justice's conduct here does not at least justify her having a long time with her views here, because what the Minister of Justice says on this matter is against the fact that the Minister of Justice does not want special arrangements for the group for which she makes special arrangements, since she does not want to listen to the churches and go in and remove people who are in church asylum today who have committed criminal acts that are punishable under Norwegian law. We also know that congregations have asked for assistance from the Minister of Justice, from the police, to retrieve these people. But nothing is done by the Norwegian authorities in this area here. Therefore, Norway can no longer call itself a rule of law when the political majority accepts that asylum seekers who have been refused their residence applications can go beyond the law by entering church asylum without police intervention. In fact, we have now been given a clarification of how the majority of the population and the government view this area, that there are illegal states, and that the individual community can review the courts by now being up to the churches and the bishops who will be allowed to stay in the Kingdom of Norway. We have seen that other countries have also had such problems, and that as problems have increased, they have had to put in place a number of measures to limit the extent of church asylum. But what happens in Norway? Nothing is happening in Norway in this area. And when people are premiered to stay on a humanitarian basis at the top of it all, I have to say that then the disclaimer of responsibility from the great majority is beyond all reason and a state of law unworthy. The right is talking about the children's rights in this matter, on which the representative Hernæs was involved. But what about the suffering of the many children who are in church asylum today with their parents? We see that it is a discrimination. We had a Norwegian citizen, a youth of eight years, who went to church asylum because he was being persecuted by the child protection authorities. There the police could go in and pick him up, so I have to ask the question: do we, Norwegian citizens, have anything left at all regarding the legal security in Norway in this area? Here is a systematic discrimination that we in the Progress Party cannot at all accept. The majority of the population are two hands today in this matter, and it also opens up for us to have untold consequences as a result of the Muslim communities now being able to bring in people who have come to the country and who have committed criminal acts, and have them in their custody. Here one opens up a practice that one does not know the consequences of. And with the immigration policy – the failed one – that we have in Norway today, with all the illegal immigrants who are here, by referring to the suspension and the debate we have had in Stortingen on this matter today, they will be able to press the Norwegian authorities to get a humanitarian stay in Norway. And this is on the right side, this is the Workers' Party on, this is the Christian People's Party on, this is the Center Party on, and this is the Left on it. So, all of this isn't a legal state worthy of justice. And that is what we in the Progress Party will fight. We also believe that when there are still people coming from Eastern Europe to Norway and going to church asylum, people who have committed criminal acts, and they get to stay here by pushing forward, this is a misguided policy. Nor is it in line with the case-law that many scholars in the field believe is the right one. At the end of the day, at least I see it as absolutely necessary for us to take up the proposals of the Advance Party in the vote today, namely: ‘The government is asking for the termination of the church asylum system to allow the police to apprehend people regardless of background, crime and the building in which they live.’ Because it can't finally be that they turn up tents even in the cemetery, and no one will intervene. [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14814	The number is out. Vidar Kleppe has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14819	I noticed that in the long run of all the parties supporting the majority in this matter, the representative Kleppe forgot to bring the representative Bastesen. I assume that he also supports the majority in this matter. Otherwise, I want to grab a few things, because it does not seem that the representatives of the Progress Party are willing to read or try to acquire what is in the setting. It is perhaps symptomatic that earlier reference was made to Holmen Church in Oslo – it is well evidenced by the general lack of knowledge institution both in large and in small size. But it is in fact in a comment from the Committee: ‘The Committee has also taken note of the Minister of Justice’s strong clarification that the use of church asylum should not give rise to amnesty.’ So the reality that Vidar Kleppe is trying to describe is not consistent with what's in the setting. I can get the impression that Kleppe now supports what was said earlier in relation to the Godhouse of other religions. What I want first of all with this line is to ask concretely: Does the representative Vidar Kleppe really think that the synagogue should not have the same status as a Norwegian church? With the emphasis he puts on correctly his special presentation of Christianity, he well knows a little about the roots of Christianity and perhaps knows what space the synagogue has in this context. So I repeat the question, is it really so that he believes it should have a lower status than other houses of God in the questions we are now discussing?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14833	I don't know who brought what here. As far as I know, the representative who had a line on me now, sir. Next, in the Justice Committee and has dealt with this important matter, and if he has not come to the conclusion that our proposal is to wind up the whole church asylum system, I must tell the representative that he has followed poorly in an hour. Ergo: The last question that the representative Hernæs raised when it came to the synagogues is completely immaterial to us in the Progress Party, because we want to wind up this whole unworthy system. So that's the question of right to amnesty. The practice is that those who go to church asylum, who are persevering, who do not give up, are allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis in Norway. And practice shows that since 1993, over 90 pst. by those who have not complied with Norwegian law and law, who have been through the usual treatment period but who have gone to the churches also against the wishes of the congregation, have been crowned with the gain it is — and it is greater than winning in Lotto — to obtain long-term humanitarian residence and Norwegian citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14840	The representative Kleppe made it sound like the Document No. The eight-proposal under consideration is the result of numerous requests from congregations in this country. I would very much like to know how many of the enquiries are behind this proposal. I have a particular feeling that this proposal has been made by the Progress Party on its own machine, and for a very specific purpose, namely a propaganda campaign that is really about Norwegian immigration policy, and not about church asylum. Now it was ironized in the change of line after the rapporteur's posts by the representative Hedstrøm that the Right had wanted a historical investigation of the background of the church asylum. When I listen to the speaker of the Progress Party in this matter, I have to say that it strikes me that it could probably have benefited many people. I'm not going to go far back in time, but it's actually a period in this century's Norwegian history where the police have invaded the church houses. It was in the years 1940-45. Then the State police found themselves right as it was in the church houses, because the then regime had very little sense of cultural values in general and of the church house in particular. It is certainly unnecessary to also remember that the synagogues during the same period were not only the subject of police visits, but for a number of more drastic instruments than they saw. But it is obvious that the memory today has come quite far when it is possible to drive a propaganda field train that the Progress Party is doing in this room today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14847	There's one saying, "By itself, someone else knows." When I hear the representative's salary, the second manager in the right, I have to say that I'm going down cold. Norwegian democracy cannot be compared to what happened during the occupation, when Nazi Germany took over in Norway, so the comparison made by the representative Wage here is completely irrelevant. The representative Inge Wohnning will not go into that matter, namely that the Right is in favour of a proposal that gives extended rights to a group that is pressing forward, that is not following Norwegian law, but that is applying to Norwegian churches, to Norwegian Gods' Houses, and most of them, I would venture to claim, are not Christians either. In addition, if other – Muslim groupings, which unfortunately have footholds in the Kingdom of Norway – are to be opened up, as has been confirmed by representatives both from the Right and from the Workers' Party, then it is going badly in the future here in the country. I will oppose it and fight it democratically, without comparison with what happened in the 1940s, when we were invaded by foreign powers. We stand for law and justice, and we also confirm with the proposal we are promoting today that our proposal involves non-discrimination and that we must comply with Norwegian law. I have to say that I am proud to belong to a party that can do and propose the same as we say to the voters.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14854	After hearing Mr. Kleppe's intrigued posts, I am left with an urgent question, namely, whether the representative may have ever really entered a church, whether he might have entered a church and felt the atmosphere that is in a church room, whether he has ever sat down on a church bench and felt the tranquillity that can then spread from the hair roots and out into the fingertips, whether he has ever been in a Catholic church and experienced seeing worn women come in with stingy expressions in the face, kneel down at the Virgin Mary and leave the place a few minutes after blissful in the face and with new energy replenishment. I wonder if the representative has ever experienced the peace that actually exists in God's house. And then, of course, the next question: if he's ever been around to experience this, doesn't he see any need to be careful about destroying this peace? Is there really no thing too small for Kleppe and the Advancement Party to go and break this peace? So now the majority determines that there's full access for the police to enter the church and exercise power to get legitimate decisions enforced. It is full access to it, but access shall be used with caution of respect for peace. Does the representative not see any reason to exercise such caution in some cases?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14863	I've been to church. And I've talked to many people who go to church, who are concerned about the important questions that we're discussing today. Church Peace – that is what I want to protect. It is we in the Progress Party who are the foremost spokesmen and women for us to have a living and good Church in the Kingdom of Norway, a Church that must be allowed to evolve, and that must be allowed to preach the happy and good message. There are congregations that address us – and there are a number of contacts to people in the Group of the Advance Party also from party friends of the representative, Tömrås and the representative, Wage, who are concerned about these issues. Because, as has been pointed out over and over again, this is becoming a dilemma for the churches that, against their will, have received church asylums. We're taking that seriously, and we're trying to find a solution to that. That is why we are discussing the proposal that is before us today. We need to protect the Church. But we can't let the Church be affected by what's happening outside, in a way that means that what you're going to do there is being destroyed. That has been the main reason why we stand for what we stand for. In fact, I believe that the church should be filled with churchgoers and not with church asylums.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14874	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14877	I record with joy all the good words that are said about both the gospel and the meaning of the Church in our people, and expect that it also has consequences in other contexts and in other debates in this house. I appreciate the good words that have been said and will carry them with me with joy. I would also like to say, since the Christian People's Party is part of the great majority constellation, that what has been said both by the Right and by the Labour Party are things on which we can sign – that is all, most of all. The only thing I don't want to be on is the somewhat sarcastic tone that Ane Sofie Tömrås made in relation to the government representatives, who might have changed some points of view. But I think it is important to bring forward what has been underlined in the various speeches, except for the crusade of the Progress Party in this debate. Kirkeasyl is a challenge to the closeness and the sense of justice of the peoples of the congregation. When people and banks come to the church door, it's clear that it's hard for people who care about others to say no, you can't come in. I have a lot of understanding that you then open the door and say yes, come in, you're going to have a living room, and you're going to get food and drink. But the Church also has a problem when this happens, because the Church and the people of the Church of course know that there are people here who, in despair, are trying to avoid having to take the consequences of the decisions that legal authorities have taken. Here it becomes an emotional contrast for the people who are in the middle of it. Then it's probably not as easy to talk to people so big about the relationship with other people as it's been done by some representatives in this debate tonight. Church asylum is a challenge for the Church, especially when it goes out in time and people stay there for weeks and months. It's important that the Church itself takes this up and does something about it. Communication with these people who are in the church is important. It's important that the Church itself makes recordings of the constructive solution of the church asylum, because it's a problem, even for the children who are in isolation, it's said something about, I don't have to repeat it. It is a problem for those adults who are desperate, and it is a problem for the authorities that are going to implement legally adopted decisions. There is, of course, one point in some of the statements made by the Progress Party that some are trying to avoid the effectiveness of the decision being taken, while others are following the decision and allowing transporters to leave. Here it's important that the Church itself do something about it. Here it is important that the authorities deal with it in such a way that it is not perceived as being overtramp, but as assistance and assistance. The Church asylum is a challenge, not least to the Advancement Party, which does not want respect for the holy space. That, I think, is one of the most dramatic of what has been said in this debate tonight. That's exactly what the majority rejects, the lack of respect for the sacred space. That not a church room, a dedicated room, whether belonging to one or the other congregation, should be entitled to respect, I think is an unworthy attitude on the part of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14892	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14895	I do not know where the representative got it from that there were some who did not respect the dedicated room. We in the Progress Party have respect for the dedicated room, so it must be the others in this room who have taken the position they have made today, who do not respect the dedicated space by allowing ordinary law and justice to apply also within the church. We're busy listening to and listening to the churches, as we've said before. We are concerned that Norwegian law applies. We are also concerned that people who come to Norway today, who get the best reception, who get their cases tried, who get free legal aid, free counsel, who have the opportunity to appeal to a lawyer with a stand ready and ready, and who, when they have been tried and refused, have been given the opportunity to appeal, and when, in the meantime, they have even committed criminal acts, seek refuge in a Norwegian church, in a Norwegian congregation, a congregation that takes them seriously, who receives them with extended hands and helps them come forward. When they say to them that we can't hold you any longer here, because the crime you've done is too great for us to take that responsibility, and when the authorities then ask the police to get help, we've seen until now that they've been denied it. Does the representative Marthinsen think that this is correct and that it is respect for the holy space, the churches and the church?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14903	I thought the representative Kleppe knew what it said in the title of his own Document No. Eight proposals. It says: ‘...independent of background, crime and the building in which they live.’ The sacred space is located in the church building, called synagogue, called mosque – which is called anything, and it should not be so difficult to understand. Trying to talk away from the fact is nothing but yelling at the gallery. What else is to add, in addition to what I have already said, is that of course there is no one, even those who live in church assylums, who are in favour of protecting people who have committed crimes so that they cannot take the penalty for their crime. No one's ever said that. Where the representative Kleppe may have the information from, I will not try to go into the seams, but there has been no urgent information in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14910	Fortunately, everyone in the Committee, with the exception of the Advancement Party, is now in agreement on how to deal with the church asylum system. There is a need for clear signals in such a situation. An intrusion in attitudes just from parties that now have government does not serve the case. Ignorance of how political authorities and political parties approach church asylum does not exactly contribute to solutions. In his speech, Mr Marthinsen called my reference to the former positions of the Prime Minister and the Minister of State for Sarcastic. It was definitely not meant that way. On the contrary, it was meant to be actual information. I can show you what Kjell Magne Bondevik said in the newspaper in June 1996, one of several places: ‘For the sake of children, we need to find a solution — and it must be done quickly.’ ‘It would have been adulted by the Minister of Justice to free the children and their families’. It went on to say: ‘Both Bondevik... uses strong words to describe the government’s policy towards the asylum-seekers. More and more inhuman," says Bondevik." So in the summer of 1996, Bondevik characterized the policy of his own government now, and as the Christian People's Party now luckily enters into the position to lead. But such statements give false hopes to those who seek church asylum in a desperate situation, and such statements confuse the actual legal situation. I assume that the representative Marthinsen as a spokesman for the Christian People's Party in this case can confirm that the line that Bondevik here made himself a spokesman for, and that he also did in several respects, is now finally abandoned, and that it will also be abandoned when the Christian People's Party is one day out of the government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14938	Now both I hope and expect that there will be a long time to come. But I would like to give the representative Mr Tömerås the right to have a broad consensus on important issues. It is also not wrong if people turn around in their attitude to things that have been opposed. I can't control the truth in the journal's writings. Normally I never use the newspaper as a witness to truth, but it could be that this is said to be interpreted. But it can also be thought – and I don't think that is too unlikely – that the main point in this is correct. I'd like to underline it. It is also possible to learn from things. I am not speaking on behalf of the Prime Minister. He must be allowed to answer for his own opinions and what he himself has said. But I have to take the general part of it, because as mentioned, I can't control the truth of it. But the fact that we have now reached such a broad consensus about the direction in which the church asylum should enter, that is, the attitude we are going to take towards this, and the way in which we are going to solve the problems associated with it, I agree is important that we maintain, so that we can do this in the best interests of the people who feel this on the body. Then I think of both the people of the Church – when I say the Church, I think not only of the Church of Norway – and of these people who seek asylum.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14945	Several have said that it is very happy with the broad consensus that is in this matter. I would like to remind you of a few things that are in the setting and that we have talked about before – among other things. that the unfortunate practice we have seen since 1993, in its entirety, is the Church's responsibility, and that the Committee majority are very strongly urging the Church to clean up a practice that the Church itself – as I said – alone is responsible for. When we again de facto establish a system, a practice that we've had in Norway for hundreds of years with a few exceptions, it's important that we are sure that we agree on what we're now writing about. The representative Marthinsen talks about the celectals that meet the Church when people come in distress and knock on the church door, and that's exactly what the problem is – the way the church/Church should interpret and deal with the situation. If it cannot be done in Norway within the principles of the Norwegian rule of law, but that the Church should be – whether you like to use the word or not – a kind of appeal to the state of law, then we are precisely in the situation that is why we have to discuss this matter at all, and that means that we have to experience as much unworthy conditions in our national assembly, as we have heard from some of the representatives. Now it is up to us who are behind this majority, a great responsibility that we really go in and act in such a way that the Church understands what the clear majority of the Justice Committee has said in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14950	I fully agree with the representative, Hernæs. It is important that what we have now said in this debate also flows to the Church. I think first of all of the Norwegian Church, but also of the others. We also ask in the position that the Council of State takes an initiative to find out what is ‘competent ecclesiastical authority’, because it is not only about the Norwegian Church, but also about other contexts in which people seek church asylum. I think it's very important that we have as broad a consensus as what this work has now gathered here in the Storting, and I think it will benefit the future situation. I don't think every problem is solved by what we say, but it will be a very important contribution in the right direction, so that we may in the future experience other issues that benefit both the Church and people who are desperate in their situation because they feel they haven't been heard.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14957	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14960	Since the Left is not represented in the Committee on Legal Affairs, I take the floor to express our view that it is a good and balanced position of the majority of the Committee and that we support the majority comments of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which are, in essence, based on letters from the Ministry of Justice of 17 November 1998. What in many ways becomes central to the letter sent by the ministry, and as it is also in the comments of the Committee of the Regions, is that it is really the Church of its competent bodies that defines the peace of the Church. I noticed that the representative Vidar Kleppe did not give the representative Inge Wohnung any answer to his question about how many congregations had addressed the Progress Party with the wish that this matter should be addressed. It is important here to clarify that with congregations, you mean competent bodies on behalf of a congregation, and not some other member of the congregation. It is clear that the system, the system, or the practice – what you should call it now – with church asylum has its clear problems, and that it is a clear cross of thought. I think in many ways that the representative Ane Sofie Timberås described them in a very good way in her post, where she, among other things, described them. In fact, those who went to church asylum suffered a voluntary stay in prison and a prison stay of unclear length. In the light of the debate that has been going on here today, I would like to make something that, in spite of everything, is a small cross of thought: the special representative of Ane Sofie Tömrås, pointed out that in a democratic, civilised legal society, the system would at least not meet any need. And then I want to put the following issue: Can't a democratic civilised legal society, too, once and for all, make clearly wrong decisions? Can it not be that even such a society can actually take decisions that become inhumane and become so clearly unreasonable that it has been justified in itself for at least part of those who have sought church asylum to actually do so? I believe that perfection of power is always a danger, even when it is expressed on behalf of a democratic society of law. We're going to be careful with that kind of perfection of power. For some reason, I always get a bit of a strange feeling in me when you talk about legitimate decisions. At the moment you can't really talk about decisions, but you must also have the word «legal», I always get the feeling that maybe this decision isn't as safe and as good as what you really want. I think we're going to say that in some contexts the Norwegian state has shown fairly properly humanity in relation to some of the people who have been seeking church asylum, for it may have had some good reasons, and better reasons than what we've wanted to acknowledge. Therefore, when the police have broken the peace of the church in our century, the representative is not referred to as unreasonable as anyone might feel. In conclusion, I – and I can do that relatively risk-free – would like to express sympathy for the wish expressed by the Right in the committee position, but would not want to be promoted as a proposal, namely to have an investigation of the historical and legal basis of the church asylum. It could actually have been a good idea. And when the Storting is not going to make a decision about it, the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of the Church would like to consider it, possibly the Church Meeting. The investigation should probably be about the same regardless of who the contracting entity is.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e14978	At least I have seen one thing in this debate, that most parties have said that they agree, and I ask questions about what they agree with. What I've come up with is that they agree that the sacred space is the dedicated space, and if the congregation extends beyond that, I don't know. At least I didn't realize that. But at least there is one thing that is absolutely certain, that now the majority of the Judicial Committee disagrees with what is stated in the letter of 17 November from the Minister of Justice, which just states that Norwegian law applies within the buildings of the Church, and the buildings of the Church must then also be the dedicated room, as I can understand. Furthermore, she says, ‘The church’s buildings are therefore not a ‘just space’. The government’s liberalisation of asylum and refugee policy can contribute to a new wave of church asylumants. In the first half of 1998, a large number of asylum seekers arrived, with Serbian Croats from eastern Slavonia being the largest group. Today's practice of church asylum prevents the police from implementing, among other things: to pick up asylum seekers who do not fulfil the conditions of residence in the country from the churches. The laws and legal systems of the country are set aside, which is very provocative for many citizens because it is contrary to their legal position. The Progress Party would recall that Norwegian law also applies within church buildings and within the concept of the Church’s room, so we are in line with the Minister of Justice in this context. The reason why the Church can practice church asylum is the evasive attitude of the authorities to intervene in the church room. The instruction from the Ministry of Justice is, in our opinion, not in line with the law, but we would like to state that the Norwegian authorities will enforce the Norwegian Foreign Law in church buildings if you want sufficient legal credibility. In October, the Minister of Justice said that she fears the consequences of an increasingly established church asylum system, but she will not intervene. It seems that the country's Minister of Justice does not have sufficient power to act or counter. Kirkeasyl is according to the Government's own problem, and it is therefore up to the Church to find solutions to the problems. However, the Minister of Justice’s party colleague Einar Holstad believes in these statements that church asylum is also a political situation that politicians should do something about. But it's just the Progress Party that's doing something about it. Others do very little in that context. The same Holstad believes that it is too easy to refer to the peace of the church when it is seen that people are harming this system. It seems that there is a great dilemma for the Council of State Aure that the system of church asylum can be abolished. During an episode at the Holmen congregation this summer the police asked to pick up asylum seekers. But the police were not advised to break the peace of the church despite the church council's request that the police remove the asylum seekers. Although several councils have made fundamental decisions that they do not want to accept asylum and accompanying obligations, and in clear order at the same time say that they will get rid of unwanted guests – the individual council calls church occupiers – the executive authorities of the country waive almost any responsibility for asylum seekers in churches and churches. The majority of the Committee takes the same line of action by stating that it is up to the Church and the churches to report matters before anything can be done by the authorities. The Christian People's Party's representative Einar Holstad, on the other hand, states in October that the responsibility for people cannot be waived, even if they seek refuge in the church. I consider this to be an indication of cracking staur. Kirkeasylans who break Norwegian law are rewarded in most cases with a stay. The Party of Advances would argue that when foreigners see that it is accepted from the authorities that those who are asylum seekers can force themselves to stay in Norway without any response from the authorities, it is highly likely that more people will try the same procedure. Therefore, the main task of the Progress Party in this area is to ensure that Norwegian law is followed in this context, as well as in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15001	I would like to stress that neither the Government nor I recognize church asylum as a legal institution. Kirkeasyl is also not an arrangement I can give my support to or in any way want to encourage. Like previous governments, despite the many unfortunate aspects of the kireasy, I cannot see that there are sufficiently serious concerns that suggest that church asylum should be liquidated by the police asking for the withdrawal of all church members. At the same time, it is quite clear that it is not appropriate to give church asylum seekers any special arrangements. I also believe that parts of the rationale for church asylum have fallen away, as the government has implemented in several areas the promised decoration of the policy in the field. The background to the fact that, as a general rule, it has not been relevant to extract church syllables from the churches has been wanted to protect the peace of the church. But recently, congregations have expressed a desire for police assistance to pick up church asylumants who were not wanted in the church. Here, then, the Church itself believes that extraction would not interfere, but protect the peace of the church. This is new and has led to some clarifications. If the Church reports the relationship, it is within the responsibility of the Riksadvokat, i.e. This isn't where the Department of Justice is directing the police. If there is only one request for assistance, this is an orderly matter. This is where the Department of Justice can instruct the police, but it doesn't usually. I can't see that there's reason to deviate from normal. This means that the police themselves have to decide whether to follow up a request. I have noticed that the majority of the committee endorses this view. The condition for police intervention is otherwise that the notification or request comes from a competent ecclesiastical authority. The question of who this is is clarified in cooperation with the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. If the church asylums are in the church room itself, the local church council is the right authority, while the church council is the church asylums who live in other rooms in the church or adjacent places. In the future, the Ministry of Justice will deal with these clarifications on the issue of the extraction of church asylums. I stress, for the sake of order, that this applies regardless of whether the church asylums are Norwegians or foreigners. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that although there will still be a general rule that the police will not pick up church asylums with power where the Church itself believes it will violate church peace, there may be situations in which there is in a specific case such a difficult situation that these suggest that the church assylant will nevertheless be taken out of the church against the Church's own wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15014	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15018	The Minister of Justice has stated on several occasions, at the latest now in his speech, that she does not want church asylum as a system. In the past, she has also stated this in the Questionnaire and not least in the daily newspaper of 14 December 1997, where this was clearly stated. There she advises Norwegian churches not to accept church asylums, and there she also states that previous amnesty attempts have led to nothing more than new people going to church asylum. In the letter to the Justice Committee of 17 November now in the autumn, to which reference has been made several times today, it is not least important to note that she also says that ‘kircheasyl is a very unfortunate system that works unfairly’. From this point of view, I can see that the Government and the Christian People's Party are now pursuing a different policy from that of the then representative Bondevik and party leader Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, who expressed the summer and autumn of 1996, when they thought that all church members should be allowed to stay in the country. Can the Minister of Justice confirm that a new and different policy is now being pursued? The Minister of Justice himself has stated earlier that many asylum cases were not as simple as she had thought before she became the Council of State, and that she now has far more confidence in the management of such matters than she had before she joined. Does this view also apply to the church asylum cases?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15029	Kirkeasyl is an unfair system. I'm holding on to that, because if you can push something and use a kind of third or fourth appeal, it gives you the rights that people who deal with the law don't have. That is why no amnesty has been given by me either. I stand for the government's policy. There I believe I have made the decorations that this government has promised. But I've always said that what we're going to have is an embellishment and no revolution in this area. This government's policy is the policy that I have been given on behalf of the Government in these contexts. That this is a new and different policy than you had in an opposition period, it's possible the replicator is right in. I have enough limited knowledge to confirm or cancel it, because I wasn't in the Storting at that time. I can at least confirm that this is not a simple matter. They're very complicated, and what we just have to establish, which is my experience, and which has certainly been experienced by former justice ministers, is that the representation that becomes the outside and official is not correct in all cases. We who have access to these documents and know the truth fully must relate to them. Today's practice and policy is what is now presented in the documents and articles held in the Stortinget by my side.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15038	Yes, there's a lot of one that has to relate to. So we have to deal with a minister of justice who doesn't want church asylum, who thinks it's an unfortunate arrangement we've got in this area, but who won't do anything to change what she thinks is negative. And that's what it says! But I have a specific question to the Minister of Justice to which I would like an answer. Especially after the main posts held by the Labour Party and the Right, it is important to hear the Minister of Justice’s view of the following: Will the Minister of Justice open up that Muslim religious communities and other religious communities legally registered in Norway today can provide a new asylum, i.e. a mosque asylum? What has been said from the Right, and what has been said by the Labour Party in the debate on these issues, namely that all approved religious communities in Norway are to be treated equally, makes it important to have the Minister of Justice clarifying this, because if the Minister of Justice also agrees with what has been said in this debate, we can have a new ‘growth industry’, namely that people who are in the country and people who will come to the country can now go to mosques in Oslo and in the country where there are mosques. Will the Minister of Justice make sure that that doesn't happen? And will she have a debate in this area that is in line with what is proposed by the Progress Party today, namely that the whole system must be terminated?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15049	I can assure the replicator that as little as I have opened up to church asylum and given it some kind of stamp of approval, I will do so in relation to the Godhouse of other religions. But what I can confirm is that the freedom of religion in this country implies that if it were to happen that we had such a situation as the representative Kleppe sketches, we will of course have to respect the same peace for the Godhouse of the other religions as the one we have for the Norwegian Church. Here, therefore, there is only one thing to say, and that is that once again, the representative Kleppes distinguishes his views from mine in these kinds of cases.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15054	The Council of State has kept a high profile in this matter in the media and has contributed to an open debate. I think that's positive, and that's what she needs. But there was a run through me and many other people when we heard about the Knut case from Hordvik Bedehus, when a Norwegian boy was picked up by the police, while we know that asylum seekers with mental problems who have been in church asylum have not been picked up. But now I understand that there will be another practice that will apply from the Ministry, and it will be exciting to see how this practice will develop. I personally believe that the Government and the political majority have developed into a situation that becomes difficult to get out of. As far as I know, Norwegian police authorities are limited only in relation to our own royal house and foreign embassies. In addition, if it is to be limited for all religious buildings in this country, it can create very inexhaustible conditions. But of course we need equal treatment. The party wants equal treatment by not accepting the state of church asylum at all, while the other parties, based on other positions, want us to have a synagogue peace, a mosque peace and a temple peace in Norway. There may be major implications here as time progresses. We also know that we're probably facing a new church silhouette wave in Norway, and we'll have to follow this with our argus eyes and see how it's going to develop. Per. Today there are 79 people in church asylum, and 24 of them are children. The Council of State said that she did not want to give church syllables any special arrangement when it came to getting a humanitarian stay. They're anchoring upwards in the system. [[The President clubs.]] If they get the final rejection, we still know that over 90 pst. [[President clubs]] by those who have gone to church asylum, have subsequently received a humanitarian residence. [[The President clubs.]] Does the Council of State wish to change this practice?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15065	The President would like to recall the time for a reply. It's two minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15068	The replicator mentioned the Knut case as an example of a case where the police went in. It was a child-restraint case. It was not submitted to the Ministry of Justice at all. Here it was the child's concern that was decisive for child protection to choose this solution. Then it was pointed out that asylum seekers sitting in church asylum can also take damage, but the police are not going to pick them up. Again, there is a question of a child protection assessment whether there are situations that could lead to harm for asylum seekers. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that children of asylum seekers who come to church asylum have the opportunity to go to kindergarten, to go to school and to take part in leisure activities. This means that there will be a different situation for the children than for the adults. But I still hold on to the fact that there is at least an unfortunate situation. Clearly, this is not acceptable conditions. We do not want it, but we respect the peace of the church when it appears to be a violation of the peace of the church to intervene. I stand by the fact that there should be no special arrangements. That's 90 pst. who have emerged from an investigation, writing from a time that is considerably longer than the time I have spent in charge of the Ministry of Justice. I have stated that special arrangements and general amnesty for church asylums are not relevant for me to put into action.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15079	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15082	The most benevolent thing to say about that Document No. The 8th proposal, tabled by four representatives of the Progress Party, is that it is an unnecessary proposal. There is no system of church asylum. There is also no system of church asylum, and in brackets the Minister of Justice was probably a little unlucky when she characterised ‘the system of church asylum’ as an unfair system. It is not a system, and if it is an element of injustice, it is in the case of judicial handling of such cases. I agree that it would be regrettable if the judicial authorities gave people benefits because they are in church asylum, compared to the treatment they would have received if they had not done so. But then the injustice lies in the justice system's handling and nothing else. When you listen to this debate, you should almost think that staying in Norwegian churches was one of the highest privileges you could gain in this world. The reality is that there is a form of voluntary prison, but without most of the conveniences available in Norwegian prisons. There is no reason to believe that in particular many people experience it as attractive as being in voluntary captivity under as difficult conditions as it is in practice in the vast majority of churches in this country. It doesn't do people without feeling in an extreme emergency. Of course, it's inconsistent that the police don't march into the churchhouse when they march into every other house in this country. But it's some kind of inconsistency that I have to say I really appreciate, because it shows that Norway is still a cultural nation. And actually, the cultural policy we are discussing in this matter is not justice policy and criminal policy. There's actually a scale at the cultural level of a nation if there's still an awake instinct of the majority of people, which makes them react if the uniformed police use physical power inside the churchhouse, in synagogues or in mosques. First of all, it is contrary to the aesthetics of most people, but I would assume that it is also contrary to a spinal cord reflex that has something to do with what the proposers also refer to in the committee position when they say: ‘These members deem the term ‘holy room’ to be related to the mysterious content of religion...’. Yeah, that's exactly what this is about, and whether you have any respect for the mysterious content of religion at all. Is it really that the fact that there are a certain number of people in voluntary captivity in Norwegian churches is a threat to law and justice in this country, or is it a threat to the justice system of a civilised democratic society? I can't, with my best will, see what imagination is going on to make you think of something like that. Personally, I would think it would be a far greater threat both to civilisation and democracy if there had been a majority in this country that was serious about the opinion of the proponents of the Progress Party in this room, that it is a close task for the Norwegian police to travel in the church room exactly the same way as you travel in all the other rooms. I mentioned in a previous line change in this debate that there is a single period in modern times when Norwegian police, even uniform police, have behaved that way. It was in the years 1940-45, under a Norwegian government. I don't think there are very many people in today's Norway who would consider it a cultural advance if we were to reintroduce such a practice.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15102	The following speakers will have a speaking time limited to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15105	In January this year, the Government issued new guidelines on asylum criteria, i.e. liberalisation by adjusting the lower limit for asylum. There is also work to make it easier to stay on a humanitarian basis. Norway has now clearly manifested itself as the crutch against the flow and the different countries of Europe in terms of asylum policy, and we see the results. We have the largest influx to Norway since 1993, and we have by far the highest percentage increase in asylum seekers across Western Europe, for this year there is an increase of more than 300 pst. Our neighboring country lies on small fractions of this. Asylum seekers of Serbian origin from Croatia remain the largest group, but the number of asylum seekers is greatly reduced after the visa requirement was introduced on 12 June. Many of them now consider going to church asylum. I, the undersigned, on behalf of the Party for Progress, have been promoting in February a proposal on visa obligations for persons from Croatia. If we had introduced the visa requirement of the Advance Party in February rather than in June, the authorities could focus much more on examining applications from persons with a real need for protection. Now there are other groups of asylum seekers who dominate. In the autumn there have been large quotas from the former Yugoslavia, from Iraq and Somalia. What happens when an asylum seeker comes to Norway? He is entitled to free interpreters and help with legal assistance. If, following extensive investigations in the applicant’s country of origin, the Foreign Affairs Directorate rejects the application, the applicant may ask the Directorate to reverse the refusal. If this does not work, he may complain to the Ministry of Justice. If the rejection is maintained, he may ask the Ministry of Justice to reverse the refusal. If this is not possible, he can go to the Norwegian court and claim that the refusal is invalid. If this is not the case, he can rely on the case until the Supreme Court – and the case can roll for a long time while the taxpayers are charged considerable costs. In the meantime, he may have had a broken marriage with a Norwegian woman, or had a child with her, so that he could stay on this basis. If this isn't going to work, it's the last "acquisition" church asylum, but it's about choosing a church that practises liberal rules for this, as the majority of the population give the opportunity. But then he's a criminal. If you have been rejected at the top of the list and do not leave the country – the usual time is fourteen days – you break Norwegian law, and it is accepted by the churches. We regret that there is a majority in this Chamber who do not want a different system than they stand for, but we know that the majority of the Norwegian people are with the Progress Party – and that is the most important thing for us.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15117	There are far more good arguments for abolishing the church asylum system than there are good arguments for maintaining this obsolete and problematic scheme. But only the Progress Party realizes strangely enough this fact. The very system of church asylum, with a religious freedom to prevent the enforcement by the State of enforceable judgments, creates itself a state of state-challenges, in which the legal fundamental principle of equality of law is replaced by an unfair discrimination between asylum seekers. For all experience, people entering a church asylum relationship are significantly increasing their chances of having their rejections reversed. No asylum seeker should be reserved for the possibility of having his application for a stay in Norway reconsidered for the reason that, based on a status of church as an asylum, both apprehensive and emissary are avoided. The very system of church asylum is to be regarded as an incomprehensible acceptance of gross disobedience to Norwegian court judgment, which is incredibly well-established with the knowledge and will of Norwegian judicial authorities — church asylum as a system in which its own judicial authorities have granted foreign nationals an opportunity to circumvent Norwegian judicial decisions on Norwegian soil. It's totally incomprehensible. In such a perspective, the system itself is so inconceivable that this should only speak to abolish the whole system of church asylum and replace it with clear guidelines in the final phase of the asylum process, so that the deployment of asylum seekers can be quickly and effectively enforced by the police, whether the asylum seeker is inside or outside a church building. A majority of the Norwegian people have great respect for the church and understanding of the centuries-old church tradition that the use of power should not occur in the church's rooms. But the Church has no legal competence to legitimise that the Church's interpretation of the judgments in an asylum case can in any way be regarded as more correct or fairer than the Court's own decisions. In today’s rule of law, the Church cannot at all assess the need for the protection of asylum seekers better than the professional bodies and courts can – rather against – the opposite. It is therefore not desirable that this arrangement should exist at all with the participation of the Church. The conclusion is that today's system of church asylum has so many most worrying aspects, as well as the relationship between state and church as well as legal, practical, immigration policy and human aspects, that the whole system of church asylum should now be abolished once and for all, and for all.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15130	The tradition of church asylum was resumed at a great pace in 1993. This year, hundreds of people were put in church asylum and then obtained a residence permit. There can be no doubt that church asylum is an illegal intervention that prevents the implementation of lawful decisions. The basis for the Church's practice of church asylum is found in the Ministry of Justice's letter to the country's police officers of July 1993, where they are required not to take asylum seekers out of the churches. With this in mind, the Church has taken the line that it disclaims any responsibility, while the Church establishes so-called sacred spaces. The Progress Party warns against the Government’s liberalisation of asylum and refugee policy that will be exploited and can therefore lead to a new wave of church asylumants. Many suggest that going to church asylum has produced good results for most asylum seekers, as it has been found that around 90 pst. of those who have attended church asylum since 1993 have received a residence permit. The Party considers that the practice of the Ministry of Justice constitutes an unacceptable discrimination on the part of the State. Persons who respect Norwegian law leave the country after a refusal to apply for a residence permit, while church asylumants, who violate Norwegian law, are largely rewarded with a residence permit at a later stage. No one should doubt that this is contrary to the legal opinion of many people in this country. The majority of the Committee – all except the members of the Progressive Party – who do not wish to wind up the system of church asylum, believes ‘that church asylum is a very unfortunate system that works unfairly... The majority would therefore strongly encourage the responsible bodies of the church to clean up the unfortunate practices of church asylum’. Instead of getting a law decision that takes the consequences of what they think, the majority of the Church leaves to fight these problems.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15152	Minister of Justice Aure was very careful to distinguish the role of the police, whether it was the Riksadvokat or the Ministry of Justice that was the supreme body. She also said that under certain special circumstances it might be necessary and a need for the police to enter a church in order to pick up a church assylant, even against the wishes of the church or other church body – it could be quite special situations. My question to the Minister of Justice is: which instance or official is there to decide when this particular situation she spoke about in her speech has occurred? Is it the local police officer who's supposed to be able to assess this, or is the police chief supposed to be asking the Justice Department? Is that a local police officer? Is that the local state attorney? What is the body to make the assessment that the Minister of Justice expressed could exist, where, in spite of the views of the Church, one could nevertheless enter the church? Which instance makes such a decision? So it is possible that I misunderstood the Vice-Chairman of the Right, Inge Wohnning, but I actually perceived him there to the point where his vision – and then I go from the point of view of the Right – was that he – and thus the Right – would not, under any circumstances, accept any situation in which the police would enter a church and pick up a church assylant against the will of the congregation. If I have misunderstood this, I would appreciate it being clarified by the representative of Inge Wohnning. Because if I have understood correctly, then the Right is more liberal towards church asylums than even Minister of Justice Aure, because she – as I have mentioned – accepts that there may be certain situations in which the police are to be sent in to pick up church assylums against the will of the church, while Inge Wohnning, as I understood him, will under no circumstances accept such intervention by the police in the church or the church room. In addition, I think the comparison between a democratically based government, which we have had in this country after 1945, with a government that was somehow established and protected by an occupying power in 1940-1945, is much sought after. I assume that the representative Inge Wohnning also sees a difference between a government that has a democratic basis through a parliamentary governance system and one that is committed and kept alive by an occupying power.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15161	I would like to clarify what was my concern: there may be situations and specific cases where there is such a serious matter that the Church's party will be picked up against the Church's own wishes. Then we have to consider what we have defined as responsible church authority in these contexts, and that is either the Church Council or the Council of Commons. There may be situations where these organs have not been able to handle an enquiry that we can be notified of, and then we are in an emergency. There may be a risk of destruction of valuable property in the church, and it may simply be that the asylum seeker presents a danger to himself or others. I don't see any other situations immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15166	I can without delay join in the reply the Minister of Justice has now given. Of course, there is a standing emergency if there is a danger to life and health, which will mean that in certain situations it may be thought that it is necessary to break the peace of the church. On the other hand, I can't imagine any situation in which it would be right for the Norwegian authorities to send the police in to pick up people with power, if the competent church bodies have assessed the matter and explicitly ask themselves this. I can't imagine any such situation. It may well be that the Right has a more liberal view of this than the Minister of Justice – I am not quite sure of that. But for the information of the representative Hagen, I have never seen the word liberal as a derogatory word, especially in contexts like this. For the so-called comparison between the conditions during the occupation and the conditions today, it is just to say that I have not drawn such a comparison. I have just made a point of historical fact, namely that the years 1940-45 are the only period of modern history in Norway where the regime of the Progress Party wants to be, namely that the police should not make a difference between the church house and other houses in that country, has been practiced. It's a historical fact. Of course, whether the reason for this is different is a completely different question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15175	I have to admit that I do have a lack of knowledge about whether there have been many church asylum cases of any kind comparable to those we have seen in recent years, where people who have been through a large justice system and perhaps a court system are taking refuge in the church, and where they stand passive and do nothing. It's possible that Inge Wohnung might find similar examples from earlier, but I can't. I don't think there are very many, at least not on the scale we've had in recent years. So also that comparison I think is relatively weak. Otherwise, I can't remember saying anything about the fact that the word liberal is demeaning. I used the word liberal in the sense that you're more friendly to a group. I didn't say anything about it being demeaning. So here's the Inge Wage that uses its usual ability to misunderstand what we're saying in the Progress Party, and then try to use it against us. It is an ability he has developed to a very significant extent, and an ability he has the power to make great use of in his so far short-lived political career. Then to the Minister of Justice. She did not answer my question! My question was: who is going to make the concrete decision that now these special circumstances are present for the police to intervene – that is, what instance? Is there a local police officer who can say that he thinks there is now a danger to life and health, so now he's moving in, or is he going to have to go to his police officer to ask? Is the Chief of Police going to the Minister of Justice or the State Attorney's Office to ask? What is the body that should make the specific decision that the special criteria and circumstances exist? So the Minister of Justice was slipping out and had very vague wordings, while Inge Wohnung was very precise, saying that it was only at risk of life and health and nothing else. My question is – and there is a lot of this debate about: Who has the decision-making authority? When it came to Holmen Church, the police approached the Ministry of Justice and asked, "Shall we move in, or shall we not?" Then it was the Ministry of Justice. My question should be easy to answer, because this is what the Ministry of Justice, who is so concerned about who is responsible for what, must have been through – so in the case of the dedicated room, it is the Church Council that is responsible, but in the case of the neighbouring room, it is the Council of Churches. So the question is, what office is there to determine whether the criteria are there to allow the police to enter a church despite opposition from the church authorities to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15186	The representative, Hagen, asks a very precise question, which is such that if you give an exact answer, you can't give a correct answer. Two things: firstly, the representative Hagen concluded with a question related to: What if church authorities have opposed this? Now I don't know what the Minister of Justice will say there. But what the representative on the pay side said was that he could at least not imagine the police going in if the competent church authority had opposed it, on the basis of knowledge of the situation that was the basis for entering. And if I haven't misunderstood too much, well, the situations in which you think it might be relevant for the police to go in without there being a specific request from a competent church authority, situations that have approximated emergency laws of some kind – either life or health risk, danger of destroying significant values in the church building or similar. And then you would probably be in the situation that whoever has the competence to assess whether the police are going to go in, would have to be the one that will be in a position there and then that makes it possible to make an assessment. This will in some ways mean that in certain situations there is a police officer present. In other situations, it would be natural to obtain the Commissioner’s assessment of this, and in other situations it may be natural to go higher in the system. But at least at my discretion it would have to be a wrong answer if you gave it the answer that there was one particular position in the system that would have competence in relation to situations that would just have the character of some degree of emergency law.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15193	I'm sorry if I was perceived as being too unpresis in my answer. But when I say that there are emergencies we have to deal with, it should also be clear that then you are in the situation that you have to find the person responsible at all times, who is going to take this provision. I can say that if we consider what is happening, as a matter of order, it is of course the police who are law enforcement, but otherwise we must have the confidence of those responsible on guard in the individual situation that you only consider this as the emergency it is, and rely on those responsible at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15198	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15212	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1235]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15225	The size is ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15316	The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Center Party will vote against these paragraphs. Is there anyone who wants to split up the paragraphs? – It doesn't seem to be. Then we take the heading and the paragraphs 1 to 8 together.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15329	During the debate on case No. 8 Mr Kleppe has tabled a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the termination of the church asylum system to allow the police to apprehend people regardless of background, crime and the building in which they live.’ The Committee had ceased: Document No 8:1 [[1998-99]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-14-2.ana.ud2550e15339	An alternative is to vote between the vote and the proposal of the Progress Party.
