ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e42	The representative, Harald Tom Nesvik, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e45	On behalf of the representative John I. Alvheim and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to ask the Government to present legislative proposals prohibiting the interception of boys who do not have medical reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e50	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e62	: Let me first correct a typographical error in the configuration, page 8, column 1, where it shall read ‘Budgets of the Nordic Council of Ministers’ and not ‘Budgets of the Northern Council’. Nordic cooperation has undergone a comprehensive reform process in recent years. The objective of this process has been both to streamline and vitalise the Nordic Council and to adapt the work of the Council to the new framework set by the Nordic countries’ membership of the EU and the EEA respectively. The reform process is in good hands, and much indicates that Nordic cooperation is now in the process of finding its form. The Nordic Council will hold its 50th session here in Oslo next week. Hopefully this time we will not read editorials entitled 'Nordic Council on Idle', as happened during the previous session in Oslo in 1993. However, although there are obvious positive features in the development of Nordic cooperation, the resource situation places clear limits on the work of the Council. Last year, the majority of the Committee felt that there should now be a cautious increase in the common Nordic budget, targeted primarily at actions in the Nordic neighbourhoods. This was followed up by the Norwegian Government, without it being possible to obtain support from countries other than Iceland. This means that 1999 will be the fourth consecutive year of decline or stagnation in the budget of the Nordic Council of Ministers. Increased efforts towards neighbourhoods have therefore resulted in other important areas having to cope with constraints in relation to the expectations contained in the report on "Nordic cooperation in a new era". It is openly stated in the news of Nordic cooperation that the cuts in recent years have affected, among other things. key areas of cooperation under the Nordic cultural agreement and that it has therefore been difficult to meet the expectations of enhanced cultural cooperation created by the reform process. Cultural cooperation is in many ways a cornerstone of today's Nordic cooperation. I agree with the Government that cultural cooperation should, in essence, be Nordic cooperation, although overall cooperation within the Nordic Council framework is characterised by continued strong emphasis on the European dimension and cooperation between the Nordic countries and their neighbourhoods. The eigenvalue of a Nordic cultural and value community and the need to maintain and strengthen Nordic identity and the Nordic region as a region of Europe indicate that cultural cooperation should primarily have a Nordic anchor. I say 'first and foremost' to point out that, of course, we should not forget the neighbourhoods and the rest of Europe when we talk about cultural cooperation. At the EU Summit in 1997, Finland’s Prime Minister presented his initiative on the ‘Northern Dimension’ to make the EU’s involvement visible and coordinate in the northern regions. This initiative fits well into the work of the Nordic Council and is therefore also supported by Norway. The Council consolidated parliamentary cooperation in the Baltic Sea region in 1992 and, in 1993, initiated parliamentary cooperation in the Arctic between the Nordic countries, Russia, Canada and the United States. The issue of a parliamentary superstructure of Barents' cooperation – in line with what one has in the Baltic Sea – will be the focus when the Nordic Council and the Stortinget convene in April next year a parliamentary conference for the Barents region. This far-reaching cross-border cooperation will contribute to a valuable exchange of experience and knowledge and create conditions for mutual trust across old dividing lines. For the Nordic countries, regional cooperation in the Arctic, the Barents region and the Baltic Sea region represents a new type of international cooperation going beyond the Nordic countries as a framework. The Nordic Council should play an active and coordinating role to ensure that Nordic countries participate effectively in cooperation at parliamentary level in these three regions. The development of neighbourhoods is, moreover, a major challenge for the Nordic countries. Baltic countries are entering the patterns of cooperation of Western countries, both economically and security policy. It has become a tradition for foreign ministers in the three Baltic countries to attend one of the Nordic countries’ annual foreign ministers’ meetings. These so-called 5+3 meetings have marked Nordic support for democratisation and development in the Baltic region and have become a forum for dialogue on the Baltic countries' approach to Western cooperation. The fact that the Russian Foreign Minister has also been invited underlines that the Nordic countries will also include Russia as part of the Nordic neighbourhood. The fact that the information office in St. Petersburg has now gained official status suggests that it should now be easier both to increase activity and to extend the contact network to various parts of North-West Russia. This would be in the Nordic's own interest, among other things. to improve the social and health situation in the area, which in the worst cases could develop into a threat to stability and democratic development in the area. There is no doubt that there is a proper prioritisation of the Nordic Council when it comes to action against vulnerable groups of children and young people in our neighbourhoods, and it is positive that a project for disadvantaged families, children and young people in these areas has been launched precisely during the Norwegian Presidency period. In recent years, there has been a certain shift of gravity in Nordic cooperation towards southern Europe and Eastern Europe, including the neighbourhoods. This has led to some concern in the Western Nordic region that the Western Nordic region will be marginalised in Nordic cooperation – to say the least. This turmoil should be serious. The Nordic region will be weakened if one does not continue to attract Iceland, Greenland and the Faeroe Islands as active partners in the Nordic family, and as a participant in Nordic Atlantic cooperation Norway has a special responsibility here. The voluntary organisations represent a wide range of Nordic cooperation. ==References== 700 Nordic organisations have Nordic cooperation on their agenda. These organisations will be more actively involved in cooperation in the coming period, and financial resources for the voluntary sector have been proposed for the first time in the 1999 budget of the Nordic Council. The strategy for fruitful cooperation between voluntary and official Nordic cooperation is set out in a Council of Ministers proposal which will be discussed at the Nordic Council's session next week. The sector work of the Council of Ministers on European issues has a great deal of scope. This is particularly true in the consumer and nutrition sectors, as the Nordic Council has also requested. In some disciplines, special working groups have been set up to ensure Nordic cooperation, including: on the legal acts of the European Union and the adaptation of EU directives to the laws of the Nordic countries. In the case of preparedness for future directives, an early warning system is in place, so that the possibilities of influence in the context of directives which in any case, by virtue of the EU and the EEA Agreement, will have to be improved. There is reason to believe that close and early cooperation between Nordic countries contributed to, for example: Both consumer policy and employment policy were strengthened in the so-called Amsterdam Treaty. The Treaty of Amsterdam means that Schengen cooperation is now becoming an integral part of the European Union. Negotiations on a new EU-Norway agreement are already underway. Although the Nordic passport union has a central place in Nordic cooperation, the Committee has not considered it appropriate to discuss this issue in the vote. This case will give the Stortinget the opportunity to discuss when there is a new negotiated EU-Norway agreement. Security and defence policy has now become an integral part of the debate in the Nordic Council. Cooperation on joint action in UN peace operations is now the most successful part of Nordic cooperation. Cooperation within IFOR and SFOR in the former Yugoslavia has led Nordic cooperation in this area many steps forward. On 1 July this year, an organisation considered NORDCAPS to be established. Nordic CAPS replaces former Nordic cooperation structures in the field of international peace operations. The aim is to be able to place a common Nordic peacekeeping unit on the brigade's size. The system shall include units from all sectors of defence and a Nordic power register is well established. This time the Foreign Affairs Committee presents a unanimous position on Nordic cooperation. Last year, members of the Committee joined the Committee to wind up the Nordic Council, as a result of Sweden and Finland joining the European Union. If during the last year the Progress Party has changed its mind, it shall be interesting to hear what causes such a change in course.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e102	It is not difficult to agree with the initial comments of the Communication that the glue in cooperation in the Nordic region has been cultural and linguistic similarities, democratic societal models and matching valuations. Our common value base, based on, for example, solidarity, equivalency and democracy have also enabled Nordic coordination of positions, actions and policies in various international forums, often with constructive and successful results. In fact, joint Nordic initiatives have marked the development of work, objectives and instruments in a number of multinational institutions, far beyond the size and geographical location of the Nordic region. The size is treated e.g. a year ago, the Great Britain Communication on reforms in the United Nations system. For a number of years, the Nordic countries have cooperated closely to strengthen and streamline the UN in the economic and social field. The report of the second Nordic UN reform project was handed over to the UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, at the beginning of 1997. One of the proposals was to have a so-called UN resident coordinator at country level, i.e. a person who should have the overall responsibility for the various UN organisations in each country, including the United Nations. in order to avoid double-driving and different priorities in organisations which, unfortunately, have partly developed different cultures and, at least, major bureaucracies of their own. I have seen self-esteem, both in Vietnam and Laos and also in Central Asia, that this seems a little different, but in total believe that such a UN resident coordinator will strengthen the UN's work out in the individual countries. Another proposal from the report was the proposal for a more predictable financing of UN development activities, including: a financing model based on a fairer burden-sharing approach and the possibility of revenue from fees charged on foreign exchange transactions. There is also full Nordic support for Norway's candidacy to the 2001-2002 UN Security Council. Although it may be the European Commission that speaks the case of EU members, for example: The World Trade Organisation, the Nordic countries are often united in views both in terms of the WTO and the OECD context, not least in order to safeguard social standards and employee rights in these systems and in a possible investment agreement, i.e. the MAI agreement, if any. At the 1996 World Congress of the International Free Trade Union (WTO) it was documented how the pressure on workers and trade unions had increased in many parts of the world – fragmentation of employment, increased production rates, non-payment of wages, trade unionism and the exchange of children are just a few examples of what is happening. The Nordic approach to these challenges based on our values is not to reverse open markets but to get stricter rules and conditions in international agreements to set minimum standards. I would like, among other things: indicate that next week, at the session of the Nordic Council, there is a proposal for an opinion on the MAI. Although aid is no longer part of formal Nordic cooperation, I am pleased that there is still extensive informal cooperation based on a convergence of views on development issues. With regard to multilateral assistance, the policy of the Nordic countries in the multilateral organisations is broadly consistent. The Nordic countries have, among other things: emphasised on ensuring that the overall objective of poverty reduction is directed at the design and implementation of the activities of the World Bank and regional development banks. I would also like to mention that last year the Nordic countries were very committed to the further development of the so-called HIPC programme, i.e. Heavy Indebted Poor Countries, to ease the debt burden on the developing world. However, it is our neighbourhoods and Europe that present the main challenges, which is also reflected in the communication. Nordic cooperation and participation in regional cooperation bodies are characterised by the existence in our neighbourhoods of two crucial premises suppliers, namely the EU and Russia. The EU is currently, without comparison, the most powerful instrument for enhanced political cooperation and social development in our neighbourhoods. With three Nordic EU Member States and two EEA countries, the European dimension of Nordic foreign policy cooperation has naturally been strengthened. The Nordic Council of Ministers currently has extensive cooperation on EU/EEA coordination where it is natural and there are common interests. There are, of course, examples of things where there are also real contradictions of interest, I don't think we're going to hide it. But largely there is a interconnection and coordination of such matters. It should be said that the Section for Employment, Gender Equality and the Environment of the Treaty of Amsterdam can be very much attributed to Nordic influence. It is easy to agree with the Communication’s conclusion that the further development of the EU will affect all Nordic countries. Negotiations on the new enlargement of the EU are one of the most important processes in modern European history. The Nordic countries have common interests in helping to qualify countries such as Estonia and Poland for EU membership, while I believe that we must recognise that some of these candidate countries will increasingly focus on Europe and the continent. It has been important for the implementation of the provisions of the Amsterdam Treaty to be close to Nordic contact. This applies not least in the context of the integration of Schengen into an EU framework. The Danish Presidency of the Baltic Sea Council and the Norwegian Presidency of the Barents Council have, as the report underlines, improved the possibilities for Nordic coordination on the Nordic neighbourhoods. Let me add that the Baltic Sea Council is also important because of its composition. Here are the five Nordic countries with different links to the EU, here are the three Baltic countries, and here are Poland, Germany and Russia. The Council, in a way, maintains Russia in close cooperation with Russia and is therefore an important link between the EU and Russia, between the North and Russia. The Baltic Sea Council is also a good forum for exchange of views, but the challenge lies in making the Baltic Sea Council more operational. I would also like to stress that the Committee in its position has referred to Innst. S. No 15 for 1997-98, which was also concerned with Nordic cooperation, where the Committee called for greater scope for efforts to be made towards the neighbourhoods of Nordic cooperation, but not at the expense of concrete Nordic cooperation. In this respect, the Nordic region should seek to specify and give substance to the northern dimension of the EU, so that the EU’s involvement in the northern regions is not limited to the Baltic region but that the concept of the northern dimension is considered as an overall concept of cooperation from the Baltic Sea region in the south, through the Barents region and the Arctic, as expressed by the Committee. Finally, the Danish Government's delegation to the Nordic Council has raised the question of whether Barents' cooperation should have a parliamentary dimension. The Nordic Council should be able to play a role here. Otherwise, I refer you to the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e130	In evaluating Nordic cooperation, we need to maintain the overall objectives of Nordic utility and Nordic added value. The same must also apply to the Nordic joint action in our neighbourhoods, whether it be North-West Russia, the Arctic or the Baltic. However, with a Nordic budget that has not increased in recent years, priorities need to be carefully weighed when new areas of intervention are included in the Nordic sphere of interest. In the right we see the investment in the neighbourhoods of such vital importance that we do not hesitate to characterize the effort outside the traditionally defined North as an activity with very great Nordic benefit. Environment and children's living conditions, disease development and energy supply, to mention some areas of intervention in Russia and the Baltic region, are examples of activity with long-term, high Nordic benefits and Nordic added value. The circumstances of the neighbouring house have a bearing on the housing around the Nordic region. Let me also add that the Arctic dimension in Nordic cooperation is starting to take shape and turns out to be an interesting area of cooperation. Here, Norway can derive considerable benefits from extended barn cooperation, which includes Arctic strips outside the Nordic region, such as: in the United States, Canada and Russia. I agree with the Committee which stresses in the vote that the Nordic Council should have an active and coordinating role to ensure effective Nordic cooperation at parliamentary level within the three regions of the Barents region, the Arctic and the Baltic Sea region. The Parliamentary Conference in Alta next year will be an important venue for such a parliamentary debate. By the way, I would remind you that in its 1999 alternative budget, the Right has put forward proposals for increased Norwegian environmental and nuclear safety efforts in Russia and Eastern Europe, and we repeat last year's proposal for an additional 80 million aid package. kr for emergency aid to Kola through non-governmental organisations. Both are essential. Because we can't relieve ourselves of the responsibility of being involved and restoring the damage after 70 years of communist mismanagement. On the other hand, it is central to our consideration that Norway and the Nordic countries also need to be coordinated with and in the EU’s policy on the northern dimension. At all events, it is important for Norway that the Nordic Council prioritises European issues for the coordination of views in relation to EU/EEA matters. And as a point of reference: it is interesting, but also quite correct, when the Bondevik government in the Communication stresses that Nordic cooperation helped to strengthen consumer and employment policies in the Treaty of Amsterdam. Thank you and the price, I will now say, that not all Nordic countries chose Norway's different route. Of course, it's just thinking games, but it's tempting to ask, because the government is so positive with the Nordic results: what would we be able to achieve if all the Nordic countries had been within the EU? How much more could we have achieved in the EU as a whole by influencing European development in the direction of Norwegian and Nordic common values and solutions? I do not know if the Council of State has thought in those terms, but even the EU opponents of the Government must admit that it is not the Nordic countries that are outside membership that have done the job of consumer and employment policy in the EU, which they – rightly – praise. However, the example confirms that Norway has a major challenge in getting Denmark, Sweden and Finland to speak our case in EU bodies as well. Here the Nordic cooperation is the foremost arena for us Norwegian politicians. The Finnish Presidency of the EU next autumn, followed by Sweden in the spring of 2001, and Denmark ends the Nordic Presidencies in the autumn of 2002. Norway should have a strategy for our communication with the EU and our Nordic neighbours in this context, not least to ensure that the northern dimension of the EU is also a Nordic and Norwegian issue. As a member of the Nordic Committee of the Nordic Council, I have recently participated in the selection to focus in particular on culture, small languages, and how to maintain and strengthen Nordic identity. There will also be important themes at the meeting of the Nordic Council next week. The pressure from Anglo-American culture is a threat, and in such a perspective, not only are Greenlandic, Icelandic and Sami small languages, but also Norwegian become a small language. In this field, increased efforts in the Nordic region will add value to our national efforts to protect our own language and identity. The surrounding regions of the Nordic countries are drawing us ever closer. At the same time, I record a growing fear in the West of the North that we in the Nordic community will engage so much to the east that we ignore and do not properly care for our neighbourhood in the West of the North. The Western Nordic Council, the Parliamentary Cooperation Body for Greenland, Iceland and the Faeroe Islands, expresses some fear that a tight Nordic Council budget will result in financing activities in the neighbourhoods to the east at the expense of the common Western Nordic cultural heritage. It is also the case that the broad investment in the neighbourhoods has brought the funding through the Norden sample down by 4 percentage points from 1997 to 1999. Here we have a special responsibility in Norway, both because we have strong ties to the west in a historical perspective, but we are also the ones that form the border between the nations and the self-government areas on the west side of the sea and the countries of Scandinavia on the east side. Therefore, I would like to ask the Government and the Stortinget to have an alert eye on how in the Nordic community we prioritise the effort between East and West. I am also pleased that the representative Johan J. Jakobsen, a little while ago, also strongly underlined the need for us to have an alert eye for the place of the West-Nordic community. I also remember that in modernising Nordic cooperation, we imposed ourselves and created expectations of enhanced cultural cooperation. Here are, for example: language cooperation, teacher and pupil exchange, youth exchange, dictionary production and Nordic houses in Iceland and the Faeroe Islands, key instruments with the Culture Fund. However, the Nordic Council budget is being pushed into the priority between the neighbourhoods and enhanced cultural cooperation as long as Sweden, in particular, opposes increased appropriations for the Nordic Council. In the case of children and young people and exchange programmes and education, efforts need to be increased in the years to come, both east and west. Networks, knowledge of each other, insight and understanding can best be enhanced by bringing young people together. In the new generation, there is a lot of common Nordic utility and added value whether they come from the Nordics or neighbourhoods. Here, in the Nordic Council context and in the national context, we need to make careful assessments of the budget lines that are in the Nordic Council, looking for the increased Nordic added value and value added, and then be willing to liquidate schemes that do not have sufficient impact. In the right, we have great faith that more funds can be channelled through the voluntary sector. Today, only 4-5 pst., equivalent to 35 million. Danish kr of a total Nordic budget of 716 million. Danish kr, channelled to the voluntary organisations. Experience shows that added value is created, that creative solutions are chosen, and that experience and knowledge dissemination and knowledge raising are high in grassroots assemblies dealing with common problems and challenges. The Nordic Committee of the Nordic Council will, at its next meeting, appoint a working group to discuss the voluntary sector in the Nordic region, as a continuation of the Council of Ministers' commitment. We believe that this is latent resources that need to be exploited even better both in the Nordic region and in the neighbouring regions. These include support schemes, guidelines and opportunities for better cooperation and interaction between the public and voluntary sectors. It is worth noting that the Nordic People's Assembly, which held its annual meeting in Kristiansand 25. – 27 September this year, asking to be used more in the Nordic context. They are calling for a strategy plan for Nordic cooperation with voluntary organisations, which through their approx. 1000 different groupings cover a wide range of activities from, as they said, still cultural associations to aggressive environmentalists. The Nordic Council and the Nordic Committee, which are particularly responsible for this, should and should agree to increased cooperation with voluntary organisations next week. From the Right we are at least interested in it. The Norwegian Presidency last year highlighted the importance of the voluntary sector for Nordic cooperation. The Nordic Committee is now following up and will provide an overview of the framework conditions and, through broad contacts with the diversity of the sector, focus on the problems and challenges of voluntary organisations. There's a lot of the whole foundation for Nordic cooperation right here. However, it is also interesting to find out how volunteering serves as an alternative to public welfare solutions in different countries, and what conditions underpin a positive interaction between the voluntary and public sector as a welfare producer, also within the extended cultural concept. Here are solutions that are transferable to the neighbourhoods. It is therefore important to raise the issue of increased efforts through the voluntary sector to contribute to good solutions to the problems of neighbourhoods, whether we are talking about social problems or organisational and cultural imbalances, which in turn have implications for the development of society in the Baltic and North-West Russia. In other words, here we can combine a broad public commitment to triggering added value and Nordic benefits in all the four regions of the Nordic Councils, namely the Nordic region, the Baltic region, the Barents region and the Arctic. It can't be better! Other representatives from the Right will address a few other important issues in later articles, including: The Nordic Council's efforts for children and young people in the neighbourhoods and the Nordic Council's commitment to security and defence policy cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e179	Cooperation between the governments and parliaments of the Nordic countries has had the overall aim of bringing the Nordic countries and peoples closer together and making society easier between the people of the five countries north of Europe. Still, we're not at the end of the road. There are still different types of obstacles between the Nordic countries, which are a common Nordic policy objective to be removed. It appears from the opinion that the appointment of a group to identify new areas for cooperation in the Nordic region has been initiated. I am happy about this and hope you can clear the way out a number of obstacles that have made it difficult, for example. cross-border practical business cooperation. It should be possible for a Swedish excavator to easily carry his machinery across the border to carry out a job in Norway without unnecessary obstacles being created by national legislation. International developments have led the Nordic Council in recent years to strengthen its commitment to security policy. In August 1997, the Council held its first Security Policy Conference with participants from both the Parliament and the government sides in the Nordic countries, the Baltic States and Russia. In the same autumn, the first defence policy statement was also made at the session of the Council by the Norwegian Minister for Defence, on behalf of the Nordic Defence Ministers. The debate on security policy is now definitely involved as an integral part of the Council's work. This has focused on politically important issues of common Nordic interest and has given the Nordic Council debates a new and interesting dimension. For a long time, there has been close Nordic cooperation in the North Calotte, a cooperation that has continued in Barents' cooperation, including Russia. An important task of the Nordic Council will be to ensure that the EU’s involvement and interest in the northern regions are not confined to the Baltic Sea area but that it is natural to regard the ‘northern dimension’ as an overall concept of cooperation south of the Baltic Sea through the Barents region of the Arctic. The issue that can be raised is whether Barents' cooperation, like cooperation in the Baltic Sea region and in the Arctic, must have a parliamentary dimension. This will be discussed at a conference held next April in Alta, jointly organised by the Nordic Council and the Stortinget, a conference which was also mentioned by the rapporteur in his statement. Participants will mainly be parliamentarians elected from the regions of the Barents region, as well as parts of the Nordic Council. This will make Barents' cooperation a better parliamentary anchor. In my opinion, the Nordic Council should have both an active and a coordinating role to ensure that the Nordic countries participate effectively in cooperation at parliamentary level in these three regions. From the Norwegian side, it may be of particular importance to ensure that the attention and interest of the northern regions are maintained. The concept of the ‘northern dimension’, introduced by the Finnish Prime Minister, Lipponen, does not necessarily ensure such attention to the special challenges we face in the north, both politically, economically and environmentally. I believe, for my part, that an important dimension in the work of the Nordic Council in relation to the neighbourhoods must be to reduce the prosperity gap between the Nordic countries and neighbouring countries. Social unrest and lack of consideration for the environment can be a serious threat to stability and safety. Therefore, it is essential that the Nordic Council seeks to develop contacts with Russia and strengthen cooperation with the Baltic countries. This is a part of Nordic cooperation which must be part of and give content to the concept of the ‘northern dimension’. From the Norwegian, Nordic and European sides, there should be a clear objective of bringing Russia closer to the Western cooperation arrangements. The policy platform of the Nordic Council is currently acting as an important link between the EEA countries in the Nordic region. Many argue that the Nordic region will be as important as the link between new and old EU members. This will also be reflected in the cooperation between the Nordic Council and the Baltic countries through the Baltic Parliamentary Assembly, Russia and the EU. The Nordic Council held a conference in Copenhagen in spring 1998 on the forthcoming enlargement of the EU. The Nordic countries, with different experiences from cooperation with and within the EU, can play an important role as bridge builders and connecting points, but also as a catalyst for increased cooperation in the Baltic Sea region and in the Barents region. An enlargement of the EU also means an enlargement of the EEA, and I would like to underline the importance of close Nordic cooperation in this process. In my view, as part of the enlargement process, it is important to strengthen cooperation on legal and domestic policy issues. This will strengthen cooperation across the Baltic Sea in the field of asylum and immigration, border control and the fight against international crime. I would like to stress the Committee's comment on the voluntary organisations. It is important that voluntary organisations have greater opportunities and better framework conditions in order to be able to play an active role as partners of the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers. It is a network of Nordic cooperation channelled through 600 to 700 Nordic organisations. The Nordic Council of Ministers' proposal for a strategy to strengthen the voluntary network in Nordic cooperation – to be discussed at the Nordic Council session next week – has been met with some critical comments from organisations, but it can also be seen as a concrete step towards closer cooperation between voluntary organisations and official Nordic cooperation. The proposal also emphasises the role of voluntary organisations in relation to democratic development in the neighbourhoods, for example. through the training of leaders of the voluntary organisations in the Baltic countries. The establishment of the Baltic-Nordic NGO network must in future also include Russia. In recent years, the Norwegian delegation has had regular meetings with representatives of voluntary organisations. This is a system that we'll continue with. Like the Government, I believe that the work aimed at children and young people is an important part of Nordic cooperation, both internally and in the neighbourhood. The various exchange mechanisms and grant programmes are of great importance in this context. I hope that the proposal for a new exchange scheme to cover primary school students will soon become a reality. I also find it interesting that the Nordic and Baltic Ministers of Education have made an agreement to launch an investigation with a view to the possible establishment of a common Baltic-Nordic educational space, based on the Nordic and international cooperation agreements in this area. I hope that the Baltic countries will want continued cooperation in the field of teacher education and the launch of a project on the integration of disabled people into school can enter the neighbourhood programme next year. The Storting will next week be the framework for the 50th session of the Nordic Council. In addition to the 87 permanent members of parliament, almost 60 members from the Nordic governments, with the Prime Ministers at the head, will also participate. It's been 50 years since the UN Declaration of Human Rights saw the light of day. This will be marked by artistic features during the opening of the session, thus highlighting the breadth of Nordic engagement and in the Nordic debate. The session participants will also be met by different cultural elements here in the house, in the stairwell, every morning before the start of the meeting. The session will also be marked outside the Stortinge by different cultural markers, which will also enable the city's population to participate in. Sara's tent will be an information point where the audience will be able to get information about Nordic cooperation. There will be different stops and direct transmission of television from the negotiations in the session. The list of cases for the session is characterised by many interesting issues: foreign, foreign and security policy issues, EU/EEA coordination, employment, labour market, social policy issues, issues related to the situation of children and young people, racism, crime and culture. As far as I can see, a very large number of statements and proposals will be made by the Council of Ministers. It is therefore a session with major challenges and a comprehensive work programme, and I am looking forward to some exciting and interesting days in the Nordic Signs here in Stortingen next week.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e209	I can without delay join most of what has been said in the previous posts – there were many good words about Nordic cooperation. It's important. However, the fact that there is also political disagreement in the Nordic Council should not be underestimated, nor should it be underlined that the willingness to give priority to the Nordic Council is different in different parties and different countries. This means that many of the necessary and good initiatives taken are limited by the economic and political opportunity to put them into action. And from our point of view, it is worrying that the Nordic Council budget for the fourth consecutive year will be reduced this year, making it even more difficult to follow up many of the award-winning and good initiatives that the Nordic Council has taken and that they will try to implement – not only in our neighbourhoods, but also in cooperation internally in the Nordic region. Since I essentially agree with most of what has been said, I'm not going to repeat so much of it, but just stress a couple of important things. Since 1997, the Nordic Council has also received a very interesting safety policy aspect. Both the Helsinki Conference and the previous Helsinki Session have shown that this was necessary. It is linked to the fact that we have different links with alliances in Europe, both military and other security alliances, but at the same time we are common to many, not least the OSCE. This has given the Nordic Council a new dimension, and the debates that are now taking place in the Nordic Council on security policy challenges and links have been very exciting and have helped to develop and enrich the Nordic Council. What is also a fact is that, through the different links between the Nordic countries with the EU, the Nordic Council has been given different priorities in the different countries. After all, it is no secret that some countries with membership of the EU give the Nordic Council a lower priority than we do in Norway. It must therefore be an objective that we should ensure Nordic cooperation, and it must also be an objective that we give the Nordic Council economic and political opportunity to play the active role we want in the Nordic region. In particular, Sweden has shown less interest in the Nordic Council over the past few years, unfortunately, and it must be an objective to raise the interest of the Nordic Council and Nordic cooperation in the coming years. Because there is no secret and no disagreement that Nordic cooperation is an arrow for us. It is also interesting to see that initiatives are now being taken to develop cooperation westward. It is true, as many have already said, that we have an active commitment both to the Baltic and to Russia. An initiative has also been taken by Finnish Prime Minister Lipponen on the northern dimension. That means that the part that is not well covered is what is called the West North, which goes from Norway and westwards to Greenland, Iceland and the Faroe Islands. It would probably be interesting to develop a western Norse dimension more strongly in the Nordic Council. That's what the left-wing socialist group will also come back to. The 50th session of the Nordic Council will be here in Stortinget next week. There will be an exciting session, with many different and exciting things on the agenda. I have to say that it is interesting to see that the Bureau has unanimously supported a very critical opinion on the MAI agreement, which the Left Socialist Group has put in. It is interesting to see that a broad political spectrum, all political parties in the Nordic region, actually manage to agree on a text of resolution that is critical. I think the majority will agree that we want a mirrored MAI agreement – which is not a MAI agreement, but it is a different debate. The point is that what we want to do about regulating international trade and investment is to a far greater extent social and environmental standards than what we find today. It shows that there is a common Nordic platform on how to take care of the environment and social standards, and that is interesting. So, of course, the debate will depend on whether such an agreement makes sense at all, and there might be different views between the different parties and different countries. But it's interesting to see that in such an important question Nordic parties can so far agree on the criticism of an agreement that all the Nordic governments have been secretly negotiating down in Paris. After these short words, I shall end by saying that the piece that I feel is the worst taken care of in what is now available is education. We have linguistic and educational cooperation in the Nordic region, and one element that should perhaps be included is that we use too much of our neighbouring country's higher education institutions. The fact that we have better support schemes means that unfortunately we do not accept as many Nordic students to Norway as we send out to our Nordic neighbouring country. An initiative that should have been taken was that we set up some form of grant scheme that made it more possible for Nordic students to come to our higher education universities in the same way that we have used universities in Denmark, Sweden and Finland for many years. It is an initiative that can be a little ahead of time. In any case, education cooperation in the Nordic region is one of the pillars of Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e226	We must note that in the week before the Nordic Council will have its 50th session here in Oslo, we have also been confirmed for 1997 and 1998 that Nordic cooperation is important, and that cooperation is both at the level of the Government of the Council of Ministers and the parliamentary cooperation of the Nordic Council. Equally important is the fact that even more popular cooperation and cooperation based on voluntary organisations are central and essential in the Nordic region. It is quite clear that a major factor for Nordic cooperation is linked to common language and culture. But I think it is important that we are aware that, especially for Finland, the language community is not the same as for the three Scandinavian countries. With this way of putting it, I've let Iceland be in some kind of intermediate position, and that's in and of itself conscious. In particular, Finland, but also Iceland, the Faeroe Islands and Greenland, it is important to note that we do not have the same language community as the three Scandinavian countries. Another important part of Nordic cooperation for many periods – for so long before we received the Nordic Council – has been legislation. I think it's very important that we're still concerned about it. A side of legislative cooperation has been mentioned, namely cooperation with the three EU Member States in the form of common EU and EEA legislation. It is an important aspect of legislative cooperation, and there may be a certain point that this is not a new but actually a kind of extension of an old and traditional Nordic law cooperation. However, it is important to be aware that legislative cooperation will relate to areas that are not part of EU/EEA legislation. I can mention that I am part of a working group to look at the situation of children and young people in the Nordic region. Cooperation issues related to legislation for children and young people will be one of the most likely issues to be addressed there. This year, too, Svein Ludvigsen was unable to suggest that if Norway had also been a member of the EU, the Nordic impact in the EU might have been stronger. Of course you can't ignore that. At the same time, however, I think there can be a point that the three Member States can have a greater weight and a greater impact by cooperating with the two EEA countries Iceland and Norway in advance of the EU process. I believe that it should be noted that Norway and Iceland are outside the EU, in some contexts they actually also provide strength, and that it may be beneficial for Sweden, Denmark and Finland in some contexts that countries outside the EU are participants in Nordic cooperation. Finally, I just want to go so far into the geographical dimension of Nordic cooperation, a little in line with what both Johan J. Jakobsen, Svein Ludvigsen and Øystein Djupedal were in. It is natural that the 1990s have become in many ways a decade in which Nordic cooperation has turned towards the Baltic Sea and the Barents Sea because of the developments that led to a completely different situation between the Baltic and Russia around 1990. However, in this context, it is important to stress that it is also a Western Nordic, and it is perhaps a small paradox – and we should consider from Norwegian point of view – that Western Nordic cooperation should be linked to the Faeroe Islands, Iceland and Greenland without Norway being also involved. It may be a point to stress that large, important resources such as fish and oil are just located between Norway and these countries in the North Sea and in the Norwegian Sea. In that context, when we pull in the North Sea, we might want to focus on the fact that the United Kingdom becomes a neighbouring country to the North as well, and that's maybe a dimension we should get a little bit more concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e244	The representative Johan J. Jakobsen mentioned our proposal last year to lay down the Nordic Council. Let me make a little bit of a point in that context: It does not matter that the Progress Party would like to reduce Nordic cooperation, but we look at – and believe in – this cooperation as completely independent of the function and existence of the Nordic Council. It is also a fact that the Nordic Council is a parliamentary forum, and it has not always been as well suited for cooperation – for various reasons, not least now when we know that three out of five countries are members of the EU. This has created a problem, this has created difficulties for cooperation on a number of important issues. I was also a member of the Nordic Council from 1989 to 1993. At that time, only one of these five countries was a member of the EU, and it was actually a little easier to cooperate. I notice a big difference – I have been away for four years and have come back – I note that there is now another interest in the Nordic Council from some countries, and that one sees that cooperation can go elsewhere than in the Nordic Council. We in the Progress Party have said that this cooperation may find a better solution by increasing cooperation at ministerial level rather than at parliamentary level, as the Nordic Council is. That is why our attitude has been that the work of the Council of Ministers should be strengthened, while the work of the Nordic Council could be reduced. Why do we have this hold? Well, we might not think the result is in the style of the effort being put into the pot. We're using, as it says in the setting, 716.9 million. Danish kr of the year at Nordic Council-cooperation – with today's krone price corresponds to almost NOK 1 billion. And then you could ask yourself, what have we actually got back for this huge effort? Is the result somewhat in line with the effort we put forward here? The Progress Party will continue to be critical of the work of the Nordic Council. We want Nordic cooperation, but we are not so sure that a forum like the Nordic Council is the right one. However, it may be a better way of working within the Nordic Council in order to change the area of action, change the profile and change the way in which to work than necessarily to propose here in Stortinget that the Nordic Council should be brought down. That is one of the reasons why we have not made that proposal this year. Maybe we have another working method in mind. Having said this, it is clear that within the Nordic Council there are also positive things that we now recognize the contours of, and that I believe the Nordic countries should engage. And as long as you have the Nordic Council, maybe you should also use this forum to get involved in just a few things. It's going on, for example. The Baltic states, it goes on to say that we, as neighbours of these new democracies, must be willing to use our knowledge of democracy development to help these countries develop their minds. And I think that's what I need. The municipal committee has recently been in two of these countries and has looked at the situation, and it is quite obvious that they need help in a number of areas, not least when it comes to the development of democracy. But one must also stop social developments that are taking the wrong course in these countries, perhaps because of a lack of democratic governance in the start-up phase. But I think we should be careful that the Baltic is not a single region. Maybe this region -- at least we got the impression when we were there -- is even more different than the Nordic region is. There is much greater difference between the three Baltic countries than there is between the five Nordic countries. Therefore, we should be careful when talking about the Baltic as a synonym for three countries that are at very different stages of development. I also found work to address nuclear waste problems in Northern Russia to be one of the areas where Nordic cooperation should develop further and help all those who live in this area. That's why I think it's important – and right – that we pull in the Nordic dimension that Lipponen came with in his time, so that Austersjö cooperation also gets a dimension of Barents and Arctic cooperation, and I want to quote what the Committee says on page 8 of the setting: ‘It will be an important task for the Nordic countries and the Nordic Councils to contribute to the EU’s involvement and interest in the northern regions not being confined to the Baltic Sea region but to the concept of the Northern Dimension being considered as an overall concept of cooperation from the Baltic Sea region in the south, through the Barents region and the Arctic.’ I think it is important and right that we have that dimension of our work in the Nordic Council. And I think that Nordic cooperation, the same way we turn around and turn around on it, is and is based on the Nordic brothers working together, not because of the Nordic Council, but perhaps rather because of the Nordic Council. If this cooperation is to continue and develop and be beneficial to the Nordic countries and to the co-operation we hope to have in the Nordic countries, it is the cooperation between individuals, the cooperation between businesses, businesses and regions that must form the pillars of this cooperation in the Nordic countries. I don't think the Nordic Council is the biggest pillar. Finally, I would say that in the Progress Party, we are not concerned that this is the fourth consecutive year that the Nordic Council budget will be reduced. After having our members of the Nordic Council for five years, I am overestimated that this organisation only has a good deal and will be glad that one implements a more efficient and rationalisation and thus can save money and perhaps get more cooperation out of each of these nearly 1 billion Norwegian kroner that a user in total in the Nordic region of this cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e273	Unlike Lodve Solholm, I believe that the Nordic Council is actually the Nordic's most important venue. The role of international organisations in understanding countries as conflict-free and contact creators should not be underestimated. When you think about the calculation that Lodve Solholm is now making, the Nordic budget is about NOK 1 billion of over NOK 20 million. The population, it goes without saying that there are not many dollars per person. People we're talking about. When Nordic parliamentarians, ministers, officials and pressmen meet next week, it is not just to mark the 50th session of the Nordic Council. We don't have time for that. In fact, in Nordic cooperation, much more is happening than in many years, and this year's session is expected to be a rather hectic and meaningful meeting. Decisions will be taken which in various ways affect the role and location of the Nordic region in Europe. One of the most important things to reflect on to us who are engaged in developing Nordic cooperation is the consequences of EU enlargement to the east. If we assume that the EU will consist of a well-twentied country early in the next century, we will be dealing with an organisation that extends across most of Europe and is far more diverse than the community of Norway said no in 1972 and 1994. I don't think it will be possible to regulate the EU in detail. I don't think it'll be the mood for a streamlined formation of new and old members. I believe that we will have a different EU – an EU that is increasingly celebrating the major issues of cooperation. The EU principle of subsidiarity, which requires that decisions be taken as closely as possible to the people affected, must be given greater importance in the future. Usually, there is talk of transferring tasks or decision-making powers from the supranational level to the national agencies. My claim is that this is not enough. In the coming years, the EU will also have to rely on regional cooperation in Europe. The EU needs relief. In an increasingly complex Europe, the EU will need regional organisations such as the Nordic Council to have its finger on the pulse. Much of the new in today’s cooperation in Europe is just linked to the regions and the issue of regional development. In recent years, a number of new regional organisations have emerged which include countries on both sides of the old Iron Curtain — Baltic Assembly, Baltic Council, Barents Council, Baltic Council and Arctic Council. All are expressions of the possibilities of cooperation that have opened up with the fall of communism and the dissolution of the Soviet Union. It is nice to note that the Nordic Council has played a key role in the formation of most of the new organisations. I can mention that the Nordic Council and the Stortinget are hosting the very first Barents Parliamentary Conference to take place in Alta in April to next year. Through the new organisations, the Nordic Council has developed a fine-tuning network of political contacts in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, St. Petersburg, Karelen and in the Murmansk area, not least at parliamentarian level. Cooperation patterns are still unfinished, and there will eventually be a need for a clearer division of labour between organisations, but we can already state that the development of democracy in the Baltic and Russian neighbourhoods has become a core issue in Nordic engagement. In the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council of Ministers, we are working intensively to develop projects in cooperation with the Baltics and the Russians, and my impression is that today's efforts are much more tangible than they were a few years ago. The Nordic effort has an idealistic nerve, but let it be clear: it is in our own interest that the development of the neighbourhoods comes on a safe path. We have seen that the end of the Cold War has been engulfed by ancient ethnic conflicts in several parts of former Eastern Europe. The events in the Balkans are a tragic testimony to how bad things can go. The Baltic is not the Balkans. But let's never underestimate the destructive force that can be hidden in nationalism. We know that economic developments in the reform countries are uneven and that the result is growing social differences. To sum up, there is a danger that Europe may once again be divided, this time by a poverty gap. Year-on-year differences across the border between Russia and Finland/Norway exceed any other border. And they're increasing. Poverty, particularly affecting children and the elderly, can be a source of social unrest in neighbourhoods. The situation of children is now on the political agenda of the Baltic countries, much because of a strong and informative report by a Nordic parliamentary group. Health problems are developing from bad to worse in several areas of North-West Russia. The Nordic Council supports all good forces to combat poverty and will continue to press for the development of a comprehensive, effective health plan for the Barents region. The EU has many tasks to do and many expectations to deal with. The forthcoming enlargements in Central Europe mean that the EU will have an even longer case map. The new EU needs a well-thought-out regional policy for the Nordic countries and Northern Europe, but we cannot expect the southern Member States or candidate countries to give particular attention to the issue at the moment. It's up to us in the Nordic region to take the initiative. The Finnish Prime Minister, Paavo Lipponen, has taken a first step with his play on a northern dimension in the EU. The task is now to give the northern dimension a clear Nordic dimension. In order to succeed in the neighbourhoods, the EU must have several Nordic cards on its hands. It is necessary to draw on the considerable political experience and the many personal networks developed by the Nordic Council and other Nordic institutions. The Nordic Council, both through its own cooperation traditions and through its role as a forum for many of the new regional associations, is well placed to take on the role of a broad and flexible forum for political debate and coordination in Northern Europe. I believe that Estonia, and eventually Latvia and Lithuania too, will discover that they can need broader alliances even after they have achieved membership of the European Union. The Nordic Council is often criticized for being a social chat club with limited significance for most people and their everyday lives – and I heard from Mr. Lodve Solholm's post that the vision still lives very well in the Progress Party. But that's wrong. Initiatives launched at the Nordic Council have been important in several contexts for policy decisions taken later by national governments and parliaments. However, in my view, the ‘informal’ role of the Nordic Council is our strength, and what enables this organisation to play an important role in European development. It is precisely by being a meeting place and a debate forum that the Nordic Council can offer a little more informal venue for decision-makers and social stakeholders from Russia, Poland, the Baltic States and the Nordic countries. There is no binding mandate here; there is no risk of prestige and national interests – there is a slightly freer opportunity to exchange views and experiences, to become known and to establish contacts. In short, the Nordic Council provides the necessary opportunity to create the basis for more committed cooperation. This was the main role of the Nordic Council when it called the security policy reality of the war split the Nordic countries, and that is the important role that the Nordic Council could play in the future cooperation between East and West. A single Nordic region, not just the Nordic EU countries, is well served by the EU mobilising efforts in its neighbourhoods. This means that there is a need for a comprehensive Nordic approach in Brussels. As a representative of Nordic common interests, the Nordic Council has a natural responsibility that drives it. We are in the happy situation that, for the first time in human memory, the Nordic countries are not plagued by security fragmentation. Norway, Denmark and Iceland are still members of NATO, while Sweden and Finland are outside. But these inequalities no longer constitute an obstacle to the development of Nordic cooperation. The Cold War is over, and it is now easy to see that the basic security policy challenges are common. Let us use the new freedom of action to emanate an ambitious Nordic policy in the neighbourhoods and in relation to the EU. The Nordic Council can become an organisation that brings together the strands, which interweaves the Nordic interests in the neighbourhoods and the EU into a strong whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e307	The reorganisation of the work of the Nordic Council had an important objective: the work of the Council should be better adapted to today’s and tomorrow’s challenges. The political dialogue and process would come to the fore. The political initiatives in the Council should be anchored in the parliaments of each country. Verification of previous political engagements at the Nordic Council, including: in a project called Nordic Use, it was shown that this had not been the main rule in the past. Today's roadmap in the Council and its three selections are, I would say, today more politically, and the processes between Council sessions are also becoming progressively more focused. Regrettably, the Council's ownership of all individual activities governed by budgetary decisions remains a challenge. So a little bit to the benefit of what we do in concrete things. Of the many issues mentioned in the report of the Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council on the activities in the second half of 1997 and the first half of 1998, I would like to pay particular attention to the process in relation to the recommendation on Nordic environmental accounts. The Nordic Council's sub-committees include: responsibility for energy and environmental issues in the Nordic region. These issues have a great place in the debate on society in the Nordic countries, but formally each Nordic country pursues its own national policies in these areas. The challenge for the Nordic Council has therefore been to find structures, to take decisions that could lead to more committed and targeted cooperation in relation to the environment. Through the work of the Nordic Council, we can now establish that we can achieve greater environmental benefits and a reduction in the total growth of energy production through better Nordic coordination of existing energy carriers. Furthermore, we can state that if we are to do this in practice without a slightly dwindling bureaucracy, we politicians in the parliaments of each Nordic country must put in place coordinated and better driving rules for the energy market. The recommendation of the last session of the Nordic Council in Helsinki, the recommendation for a Nordic environmental accounting, has harmonised taxes and taxes in the electricity sector and a Nordic environmental accounting as an important management tool. A crucial step is to put in place a pricing of environmental costs at the production stage. In the current year, the Council has held a major environmental conference in Gothenburg. There was the same conclusion: better driving rules need to be put in place, especially for the Nordic electricity market. Here in Stortinget we treat before holiday a proposition on green taxes. There was also an important conclusion that better driving rules need to be put in place in relation to the environment and in the Nordic electricity market. A broad majority concluded on the principles set out in the Nordic Council Recommendation. The challenge now is to put words into action. The Nordic Council's session here in Oslo this week also focuses on the environment in the distribution of the environmental price. In this context, it is natural for the Council to follow up its energy and environmental exposure. The current environmental recommendation has an ambition of two years for the implementation of environmental accounts as a formal governance instrument for Nordic countries. Better driving rules for the Nordic electricity market, the pricing of environmental costs at the production stage, are another important ambition to put in place in the parliaments of each Nordic country within the same deadlines. We in Norway are on track in relation to Kyoto. The commitment outlined by the Nordic Council can be an important contribution to being on track also in relation to the decisions that are now to be taken in the continuation of the Kyoto decisions in Buenos Aires. The Nordic Council is on track in relation to its own ambitions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e324	I have noticed that this position underlines the importance of the Nordic countries joining forces on responses to children and young people in the neighbourhoods. However, I think that this point should be emphasised even more strongly. We know that children and young people, especially those who are exposed to poverty, who have weak family networks or are born with disabilities, are particularly vulnerable to the transition process that both Russia and the Baltic countries are undergoing. In the transition from a centralised command economy to a market economy, many fall through. The old Communist regime also lacked what we call a strong civil society that could have stimulated and valued responsibility and care for the nearest. It is an important task for Nordic cooperation to remedy this weakness of the old Communist regimes. We have a lot to contribute, but we also have a lot to learn from such cooperation. The Nordic Council has recently received a comprehensive report on children and young people in the neighbourhoods. The report also proposes an action plan to promote social development for children and young people. A major conference will be held in Sweden next month, BARNforum, which will highlight the challenges facing children and young people in our neighbouring countries. The measures proposed by the report focus in particular on: combating poverty disadvantaged families prevention health work education sector particularly vulnerable groups of children and young people, such as disabled persons, children in prison, stateless children, street children Unfortunately, the development of our neighbourhoods has made the situation worse and has led to the failure of many children and young people. We see an increase in the number of poor children and in the number of street children. In Russia as a whole, there has been an increase of 50 pst. in the number of children living in orphanages since 1990. Several children quit school, disabled people are often neglected in large public institutions, and we see an increase in the number of young criminals. Children and young people are also exploited economically and sexually. In other words, we are talking about fairly basic joint tasks that both Russia and the Baltic countries need help to solve. They may need most of all the transfer of skills and knowledge, but it's also a question of building a value base, helping to make the social development of the former communist regimes a clearer value dimension. The Nordic Council of Ministers report recommends that Nordic cooperation should have as its overall strategy a role in coordinating different actions from the Nordic countries. They propose, in cooperation with UNICEF, to establish a coordinating council to avoid unnecessary duplication of resources and efforts. Furthermore, it is proposed to focus on a large-scale transfer of competences in the social and cultural fields and to target economic and human efforts against them. It also points out that we can use the Nordic experience with children's representatives to, if possible, establish similar institutes for neighbourhoods. I think it is very important to take the job it is to coordinate and coordinate the different actions we see there is a need to put in place in our neighbourhoods. These include contributions to entirely fundamental social measures such as mother and child health centres and the elderly, training and transfer of competences to health workers, prevention of health work, vaccination against infectious diseases, home for street children and prevention of crime. If we are to succeed, it is absolutely necessary to make the most of the resources and competences. Here, the Nordics have just cooperated with an important munitions. But we also need to see that a bet in the neighbourhoods will require something from each country. It's going to require resources and human effort. We must have a conscious relationship to prioritize this and be willing to follow up on financial resources in budgetary terms. The Conservative Group has made a reservation in relation to the budget of the Nordic Council to be examined in the next week’s session. So here we're going to add 4 million. kr to be used for various common nordic measures specifically for children and young people in the neighbourhoods. As a first step, we should put a lot of effort into combating increasing crime and drug abuse in the Murmanian region and in the three Baltic countries. I believe that Nordic cooperation has its most important mission in the years to come, precisely in targeting the efforts against those who are the weakest in the enormous process of reshaping our neighbouring countries. We have a long experience of helping the Third World. We should also be able to use some of our resources and competences in the neighbourhoods, so that, on a permanent basis, we can lift groups out of poverty and provide the new democracies with start-ups to develop into socially sustainable societies.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e364	Nordic cooperation has been a sunshine phenomenon in this century. The Nordic countries have cooperated very well in good weather, but when the weather has come, they have dropped each other quickly as hot bricks, with enormous tragic events as a result. It is therefore very good that Nordic cooperation has now been renewed and expanded to include security policy. I am very pleased that this happened during the Norwegian Presidency in Helsinki last year. In many ways, one could say that the main problem of the northern European area is a lack of security solidarity and the phenomenon that countries can pick one by one when it becomes unfamiliar in this part of the world. Unfortunately, the lack of stability in this part of the world is still so great that we cannot ignore the fact that history can repeat itself. The answer to this challenge is, of course, to bring all the small countries of Northern Europe into the security policy structures. Only it can adequately prevent historical tragedy from occurring in the future. Sweden and Finland are already on the road, as they have joined the NATO Partnership for Peace Cooperation. They're in the SFOR force in Bosnia osb. But the most delayed are, of course, the Baltic republics. And with the insecurity we have with the big neighbor further east, it's not without reason that they fear that if things go wrong over there, tragedy like the one we've seen in Chechnya a short time ago, can repeat itself in their area. I think it is very important that precisely these countries are involved in security policy structures in order to ensure the stability of this part of the world, and I believe it is very important that Norway and Denmark, which are members of NATO, become drivers and not, as it has been, at least for Norway, a little later. In this context, I also believe it is important that a follow-up be made to the proposal of Brzezinski, the former US security adviser, which stresses that it is absolutely necessary for one here to look at the Baltic countries separately and assess them on the basis of competence osb. on an individual basis and not as a group. In connection with the Russian protests in this context and the protests that it is so bad to bring NATO up against Russia's borders, I found it useful to point out that Russia today has a border with NATO and has had it for a very long time – in North Norway. In a debate with the Russians, I ask them if this limit is good, and they have to admit that it is a very good limit – they say it is right out. Then I ask if they have ever had a better limit than this limit up here, and they have to admit with a smile that they have not. I think there is reason to point this out in this context and point to the fundamental fact that there should actually be no basis for security policy conflicts between Russia and Europe, and that, therefore, there is in no way any treason against Russia that these small states with the historical experience they have can now have the same security that we appreciate very much in this country. When it comes to defence cooperation with the Baltic countries, it is in good development. It is otherwise with Sweden and Finland as well. BALTBAT, who has been a pioneer project, should have taken over our job in Southern Lebanon, but they couldn't because they don't have the ability to follow up. It is important that we now develop the capacity of BALTBAT in this way, or that we provide for a cooperation between BALTBAT and others, so that this department, which is now ready for use, comes to work, to say it that way. When a department that has been trained for a long time and is ready for bet, is not used, but gets running on idle, it is very unfortunate. I also think it's important that we draw them with e.g. in the SFOR, so that they can try their way around. When it concerns Norway's efforts in the vicinity in general, I would say that it is extremely economical. It's actually very flat how little we've invested in our vicinity in a period where we can say that the windows of possibility have been open. There is no reasonable relationship between our efforts in our neighbourhood in an accounting period and that, for example. does in Africa. That we should spend a lot more money on some African countries – with very doubtful results, as reported in the report – than we do in our neighbourhood where the needs are so clear and so large, I think I'm completely crazy. It is partly linked to the way in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budgets 03 and 02 areas, etc. It has to be changed. There has to be a reasonable ratio in this area. When it comes to energy, the countries that used to be behind the Iron Curtain are now saying that they have replaced the word blackmail with gasmail. They feel that maybe their biggest security problem today is that they depend on only one energy supplier. It underlines the importance of progress in Nordic energy cooperation. The Swedes have been a plug in this. It's important that they see their role here in a slightly larger perspective than just themselves, so that we can get to, for example. the Nordic gas network to which the EU has committed itself and energy cooperation in other ways, so that all countries up here can have alternative sources.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e402	As indicated in the Storing Communication, the Government attaches great importance to Nordic cooperation. This applies both to inter-national cooperation and to cooperation in relation to the neighbourhoods and in relation to Europe. Although the interna tional will always be the pillar of Nordic cooperation, neither can we be marine enough in this area, we also have to deal with the fundamental changes that are taking place between East and West in Europe, and the reality that the Nordic countries have chosen different ways in relation to the European Union. The fact that these points of view also have broad support in Stortinget shows the unanimous comitology of the notification. I have also noted that the Progress Party does not have its own opinion this time, recommending that parliamentary cooperation in the Nordic Council be phased out. I noticed Lodve Solholm's reason that the Progress Party has made this change. In its opinion, the Committee draws attention to the fact that in recent years the constraints on the Nordic budgets have affected key areas of cooperation in the field of culture and considers that cultural cooperation remains a major field of action in Nordic cooperation. These are the views I fully agree with. On the other hand, the cut in the Nordic budgets must be measured at 1998 prices — from 762 million. Danish kr in 1995 to 716,9 million this year – also have a counterpart in the reduced business. It must be recorded as a point of light that the reduction in the budget has now been slowed down and that the level from the 1998 budget is maintained in the proposal for the 1999 budget. In this context, it is also appropriate to point out that increased involvement in the neighbourhoods within the same budgetary framework will necessarily have to affect other areas. The government would have wanted a new effort in the neighbourhood to be made with ‘healthy money’. In the case of the total budgets, Norway has not been the brake block. There is no secret to the Storting that Sweden has been the driver for reducing the common Nordic budgets. And here, as with international cooperation, you don't get any further than that there's an agreement. In this context, it may be interesting to note that the Swedish Presidency of the Council of Ministers has taken the initiative in the current year to set up a working group to assess new areas of future Nordic cooperation. Despite the declines, cultural, educational and research policies remain the most important Nordic field of activity. In the 1999 draft budget, this sector alone remains a whole 45 pst. of the budget. With regard to the distribution of the budget among the three main pillars, 71 pst. of the budget goes to international cooperation next year, 19 p.m. reserved for neighbourhood cooperation and 10 pst. will go to European cooperation. Compared to the year's budget, this means that the neighbourhood budget has increased by 4 pst. at the expense of the internal budget. The glue of Nordic cooperation has been cultural and linguistic similarities, democratic social models and matching valuations. This applies to official Nordic cooperation, but equally to Nordic cooperation expressed through voluntary organisations. Here there is a wide network that has roots far back, and that somehow has given almost all of us living in the Nordic region, a Nordic identity, as well as our national identity. These are hundreds of different organisations — probably out of 1000 — which also have a Nordic perspective in their activities. The Norwegian Presidency wanted in 1997 to strengthen cooperation between the official Nordic region and the voluntary part of organisational life. Particular attention has been paid to the importance of such cooperation for the establishment and strengthening of similar organisations in the neighbourhoods. The Nordic region has a unique organisational life. It is a strength for Nordic democracy and can be a useful experience to transfer as a contribution to the building of democracy in the neighbourhoods. The Norwegian initiative in relation to the voluntary organisations has been followed up by the Swedish Presidency this year and will be continued by the forthcoming Icelandic Presidency. In other words, we are facing a process of continuity. I agree with the Committee that through the budgets of the Nordic Council of Ministers, it is necessary to strengthen the opportunities of voluntary organisations to play an active role as partners. The Council of Ministers has now developed a strategy for cooperation with the voluntary sector. It has also had the first budgetary implications. Further development will also depend to a large extent on the projects that voluntary organisations can undertake – not least cooperation projects in relation to their neighbourhoods. Internal cooperation is – and will always be – the most important part of Nordic cooperation. But this part of cooperation is not static either. International cooperation has also had a foreign policy dimension for several years. Last year — under the Norwegian Presidency — the Nordic Council of Ministers held its first session in Helsinki gave a security policy statement by the Nordic Defence Ministers with a subsequent debate in the Council. This is followed by a similar presentation when the Nordic Council meets here in Stortingen next week. I have also noted the importance that the Committee attaches to Nordic cooperation in the field of defence and security policy. The Norwegian Presidency took the initiative to cooperate on a common Nordic policy in the field of information technology. This has been followed by the Swedish Presidency with a meeting of the Nordic IT ministers in spring. It is a common Nordic desire that IT cooperation be accessible to all and contribute to democratic societal development, strengthen Nordic languages and culture, develop a common Nordic regulatory framework for electronic commerce and stimulate small and medium-sized enterprises to build IT networks. With regard to the neighbourhood pillar of Nordic cooperation, as previously mentioned, this is the same as this step up this year and now includes a larger part of the Nordic total budget. Further steps have been taken to step up efforts in the neighbourhoods at the request of the Nordic Council. These measures cover a wide range of key elements: democracy development, health, measures for vulnerable groups of children and young people, the environment, culture, education and voluntary organisations. I otherwise agree with the Committee when it wants Nordic countries to emphasise cooperation on the so-called northern dimension of the EU, and that this should not be limited to the Baltic Sea region alone, but also be a concept of cooperation involving the Barents region and the Arctic. I have also noticed in the debate that more people have called for us to strengthen Western-Nordic cooperation. I agree. Firstly, of course, it is in Norway's own interest that this is happening, and in particular I think we should feel a responsibility for this being stressed more strongly in the coming years. I expect that when Iceland gets the presidency next year, Iceland will also be interested in taking initiatives that give increased attention to West-North. I would like, among other things: a reminder that Iceland has also indicated that we need to connect new contacts with our neighbours in the west, for example. Scotland and Shetland, and I expect these are the views that Iceland will follow when they take over the presidency. While Denmark, Sweden and Finland are EU members, Norway and Iceland have chosen to stand outside. This has given increased importance to Nordic Europe cooperation. Fundamental in this context is what is called the ‘early warning system’. This year, as part of this process, the Nordic Council of Ministers has strengthened the information lines of the EU delegations in Brussels. At the same time, a host institution has been established by the European Union Delegations for staff members of the Council of Ministers in Copenhagen. Finally, let me say that Nordic cooperation is under development in all three main directions, both the internal, regional and European dimensions. I note that this is also in line with the wishes expressed in the unanimous committee position on the Storing Message, and I am pleased to note that it has been further emphasised in the debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e439	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 404]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e455	It is very disturbing that more and more children and young people have a complicated and unnatural relationship with their own bodies and with food. Many people may even think that eating disorders are a deportation and luxury problem for our rich part of the world, but eating disorders are something that can gradually develop to become a deadly disease and degrade and destroy the ability to have a normal quality of life. I would say that even today this theme is taboo in many ways. The theme can be played. I ask myself the question of the explosive development we see in eating disorders is a symptom of the development of our so-called modern society, where demands for success, performance and good results are the only thing that matters and gives us value in relation to our fellow human beings. Girls in our state-of-the-art society should be slim, boys should be v-shaped. This is synonymous with the fact that you are in good shape, that you have good health, that you have self-control and the ability to resist temptations, that you are good and effective and are a modern and successful man or woman. The Minister for Children and Family Affairs certainly agrees with me that it is very regrettable and alarming that very young children are increasingly having problems with food and body. In a look-up in the VG yesterday we could read about parents who want to give their children powder cures. Losing children can cause psychological side effects. The feeling of not being good enough can easily lead to a eating disorder. Depression, body and weight concerns and low self-confidence are mentioned as important causes of eating disorders among children. The reasons why some young people develop eating disorders are complex and partly unknown to us. Researchers believe that the causal relationships involved are likely to be an interaction between family relationships, cultural pressures, biological disposition and personality factors. Often an eating disorder begins as a slender attempt, which develops into forced and busy activity. In a short time, the person changes eating habits and activity patterns and has problems with concentration and other psychological functions. This has serious consequences for life. Physically, it means malnutrition, lack of symptoms, extensive dental damage, loss of menstruation and breakdown of digestion. Psychiatric labors with shame, depression, concentration problems, low self - confidence and self - feeling, anxiety, low mastery, and a lack of appetite. Socially, there may be problems in being able to follow school education or clear work obligations, periodical isolation from family and friends, and difficulties in linking close human ties. Earlier this year, Dagbladet wrote about the Danish superior Søren Nielsen who presented figures at a convention on eating disorders that showed that eating disorders are the most deadly psychiatric disorder of our time. Runi Børresen Gresko at Sports School says that we can find eating disorders among students of all socio-economic classes, of all races and intelligent levels and among both boys and girls. Over the last few years, we have had a 12-fold increase in the number of eating disorders in Norway and, unfortunately, developments seem to continue. We have to take responsibility for not continuing in the same way. There are also more and more boys who are struggling with their relationship with food and body. The dark numbers in this field are seen as extremely high. In today's society, identity is increasingly linked to the body and what we look like. A slender, voluptuous body is often associated with control, success, high morals and willpower. In newspapers and weekly newspapers, the kids read that those who look good are the ones who get the best grades and get the easiest job. At school, children learn that they have good grades, which have the key to success in life. At the same time, you have to find yourself, be popular and fit into the standards and rules of class and school. I've asked myself what makes so many young well-made, beautiful boys and girls hang out for it so-called perfect and slimming almost to the dead. Why? I believe that many young people today have huge – yes, completely inhumane – demands for themselves at different levels. We need to ask ourselves what responsibility and attitudes the school and, of course, we parents have in relation to this problem. Schools are in many ways a reflection of society, where mother, trends, norms and rules are in force. The formal requirements are grades, we're going to produce, submit, review tests, etc. I think it means a lot to many people in this country that we, as responsible politicians, are dealing with this problem in a serious way. I hope that in this matter there may be a cross-political consensus, and that together we take a political commitment and put in place tools on the prevention side, through general awareness and information campaigns that can make parents, the schoolwork, the sports laws and not least the ordinary man and woman get a conscious view of what this is, and – most importantly – that makes us all take a shared responsibility to do something in the way that we each have the opportunity to do. Through information campaigns on eating disorders, the family can learn to see the danger signals and react early. The school also has a special responsibility in this field. The curriculum emphasises that the school should have a central place in the prevention of health. The school is responsible for taking care of and developing the whole human being and must work purposefully with the self-confidence of children and young people. The school has the possibility of detection, prevention and guidance of treatment. But the school must have competence and prerequisites to do so. Are teachers aware of this problem, and are there sufficient knowledge in school today? And what attitudes does the teacher himself have toward body, weight, and appearance? What signals does the teacher himself send out? I want to pay tribute to the women's movement in our own party, which has arranged for all teachers both in primary and secondary school to be trained in how to discover and deal with eating disorders. They call for the strengthening of the secondary advisory service and for the competence of municipal health centres to have their own provision for young people. In my opinion, these are very positive and correct actions, which I hope we can get support for. I hope that the Minister for Children and Family Affairs agrees that it is alarming when one in five girls has tried to slim down before they reach the age of eight, as a Swedish survey shows. Small girls gave three reasons for slimming. They wouldn't be irritated, they thought they were getting better like their friends, and they felt thick in gymnastics. All the girls surveyed were normal, according to VG surveys in February 1994. In today’s strong media communities, the media and, in particular, the moth gasses also have a responsibility. We see a fashion world that is becoming increasingly sick when it comes to female ideals. We find 13-year-olds on the catwalk, and even though the worst examples are available on other views than in Norway, pictures of these young girls are shown and distributed in our own fashion magazines and youth magazines. But there are also positive trends among market players, to call them that. As an example of this, I will mention the Body Shop campaign that says there are only ten supermodels, while the rest of us are real women. The training chain SATS also has a conscious profile in its training institutions. I also want to pay tribute to the important work done by the interest group for women with eating disorders for many young people today. I hope that today, for once in the Grand Duchy, we can reach political agreement on a political matter that concerns many.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e502	I will begin with the closure of the representative. I agree with her – we hope we can achieve a deal in such an important matter in Stortinget, as we are invited to do today. The interpellation that the representative of Bekkelem Orheim has put forward requires, as I see it, also a brief orientation on what this problem is about, before I say anything about what measures the government will put in to prevent children and young developers from having problems with etching. My answer will mainly deal with the more general aspects of this problem. When it comes to treatment provision and methods, I see the answer from the Minister of Health who comes in the next interview. There is reason to believe, as the interpellant also mentions, that body-fixed advertising, the use of children as models, some unfortunate media focussing with sexual fixation on children in pre-puberty – all these are things that affect the view of what we think we should look like, and what is a beautiful body. So this is about how strong commercial forces affect our sense of value, and it's also about how we, and especially children and young people, develop values in relation to appearance and body. How many children and young people who have anorexia or bulimia or other forms of problem related to food and eating are difficult to speak out concretely. Some may claim that there have been a lot more of it in recent years. In fact, international investigations do not suggest that. But what we know is there's been a lot more focus on these problems in recent years. In Norway, it is estimated that between 25 000 and 30000 young people between 15 and 25 years of age have anorexia nervosa or bulimia nervosa. In addition to these, many people are struggling with other major problems related to food, body and weight. A completely different research report shows that according to the definition that is useful in recording eating disorders, it is about. There are 100,000 people in Norway who have these problems. I am thinking of the research project of female land-coverists for whom the Ministry of Culture has provided financial support. This project shows that in parts of the sports community, there are frightening numbers of young people who have problems with food and with their bodies. But I want to warn against making the sports environment a scapegoat in this. Anorexia, bulimia and other forms of eating disorders are found in children and young people with different interests. These problems not least affect children and young people who do well and who are put on as a success, both in school and in leisure. What we can say with great certainty is that there are several factors involved if a person develops a problematic relationship to the intake of food and to his body. It also appears that the external factors play with the personality of the individual, and that there is therefore a combination of social and personal considerations that determine whether a youth has a problem associated with food and food. There are several input factors here: Bad habits when it comes to eating, etc. that you do not have a regular meal, is one example of something that can happen and develop eating disorders. Slendering is often thought to be the reason for the development of anorexia or bulimia. There's not a scientific basis for setting up a clear cause and effect explanation for this in general, but if one starts to slim down when one has normal weight, we know that the chance of developing problems is increasing. When it applies before the examination of female top athletes, it is established that in this group it was in over 90 pst. of cases such that eating disorders start with slimming. Dissatisfaction with what you look like, low self-esteem and depression along with slimming may increase the risk of eating disorders. It is well documented that performance requirements, and increasingly better performance, e.g. in the field of sport, eating disorders may be triggered. Family relationships such as Young people are having difficulty in getting out of work, and it also appears to have an impact on whether they are experiencing these kinds of problems. The development of eating disorders is, in some cases, a symptom that something else is wrong or not to deal with the individual. So what you're going to see is that there's a lot of different risk factors that can affect the chance of eating. Risk factors and reasons have to do with both the individual personality and the outside world’s requirements and values of the individual. It also indicates the direction in which we have to go when it comes to reducing the number of people who have problems with food and body, problems that can develop to become so big that one gets sick. So what can we do? Although the causes and work of eating disorders are complex, the government sees that there are two main fields where efforts need to be made. The first is, of course, the treatment of the individual who has these problems. There are issues that the Minister of Health will be doing well for here today. The second main line is to bet on preventive work. The results of the work with the female top-level athletes clearly show that targeted prevention is a good result. The reasons why many children and young people have an unnatural and difficult relationship with food and with eating are complicated. Often it will be such that special moves of personality by the individual will determine whether or not a developer is serious about eating disorders. Nevertheless, the development of these kinds of problems is also linked to the values on which we build our lives. This is how we can say that part of the value debate that the government has gone through is actually also about this: What values should be controlling in order to look at ourselves and others? What is it that decides whether we consider ourselves successful or failed? How can we ensure that children and young people dare to view themselves as valuable and good enough, even if they don't look like movie heroes or at the top when it comes to sports performance? Value issues like this, seen in the context of advertising and media development with a focus on the successful and ever-right demands to perform, are the framework we have to take as a starting point when we are to make proposals for action in this area. What do we want to do then? As the Government sees it, we need to take action on both the social and the individual levels. I look at the health minister’s response when it comes to treatment provision. But in addition to the treatment-related measures, I would like to highlight the following: We also have to let the value debate address questions related to the view of ourselves as individuals. With respect for human self-esteem, we must ensure that we do not develop a society in which requirements for conformity, high performance and beautiful appearance differ from us, in booths success/failure. We need to consider what we know about the causes of eating disorders when working on the framework of advertising and consumer policy. This is particularly true of the so-called lifestyle advertising and advertising where traditional gender roles are used. A lively debate on, among other things, How advertising affects young people's view of themselves and their own bodies, I believe here is important. Next year, several Norwegian departments will join forces with others. UNICEF is holding a major workshop in Norway where the theme is how the international community can set up joint actions to protect children and young people from the most unfortunate effects of the media flood. Equality and respect for human dignity as expressed in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child are central here. And in this context, advertising and human vision will be central issues of value. In the design of growth policy, it is an objective in itself that children and young people should develop on their own premises, without having to take into account the demands of the adult society on performance and effectiveness in all they do. In the further work on growth policy, the Government will gather all the good forces to build an environment of growth that ensures that children and young people are able to grow safely and be involved and determined on the basis of their own premises. The government will also focus on cooperation with voluntary forces within law and organisation to provide knowledge and competence to local leaders about eating disorders. Awareness of what you should be aware of can cause problems to be discovered in the past and to help prevent serious eating disorders. Often, the young themselves are observant to each other and turbulent about the friends they are afraid of have eating problems. Then it is important that young people have some grown-ups to talk to, either sit around, learners or health professionals who have knowledge of these questions. So better information for different groups of adults is a keyword for how we can follow this up. Together with the Minister of Culture, I want to look at what we can do to improve prevention measures targeting youth sports and the sports environment. In this work, we will take on board the recent report on this issue. I have a few more points, President, if I can get them.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e574	The Council of State also has three minutes' speaking time afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e577	I thought that was more for summation. But when the president says so, I'll see myself done now.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e582	I am very pleased that the Minister for Children and Family takes this problem seriously, and that she sees that already in the very early childhood, body and food can be an unnatural and difficult thing for many. I very much agree with what she says about values, and that getting new values can have value in itself for the one who's hit by this. But we can't see ourselves blind to it, because I think that just action and an action plan are what many are now asking for. With regard to concrete proposals for action, I would like to challenge the Council of State a little. To launch an awareness-raising campaign or an information campaign specifically aimed at kindergarten professionals and parents could be an opportunity. According to the State Institute of Consumer Research, SIFO, our dietary habits are changing, and our eating habits are changing as we see changes in society around us. Both availability, time pressure and increased contact with other food cultures will contribute to changes in our diet. An important measure to make children integrate and get healthy and good eating habits is to give them two meals at school. We know that today there are a lot of people who start school and kindergarten without lunch. Focusing also on fruit and vegetables in kindergarten and school may be the right response. But focusing on healthy activity is perhaps the most preventive one can do in terms of child obesity. Furthermore, I would like to receive an answer on how the Council of State looks at and assesses a ban on slim products. We know that many of the people who are hit can do anything and use large sums to lose weight, and many swallow such an advertisement raw. I would like the Council of State to address very specifically what an action plan can contain.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e595	To include some of my other points before I go to the challenges of the representative Bekkelem Orheim, I would like to mention: As part of the parental guidance program directed by the Ministry of Children and Family, we will issue a theme issue on eating disorders. They may be helped primarily to gain basic knowledge about how they can participate in and prevent eating disorders. There is also a little bit of the challenges that Bekkelem Orheim's representative gave me in relation to the behavioral work with kindergarten staff and chairpersons. We want to publish information about this theme directed at young people, including young people. through the Young magazine, about which several departments are united and which reaches all the 9th and 10th grades in the country. The ball and the health care service are important in preventing eating disorders, as is the representative of the beckeck between Orheim mentioned in his post. Strengthening the health care service and the school health service, which the Minister of Health will say more about later today, will include: increase the chances of early insertion of help in this problem area. It is also important to continue to strengthen the skills of professionals working on these difficult issues. We'll do that. In December of this year, we will start our own follow-up training for those treating eating disorders. The aim is precisely to increase the competence of those working on such issues. This educational provision transcends professional and social skills. So I would like to comment on some of the other challenges that Mr. Bekkelem Orheim gave me. Firstly, cooperation with the Food Council of the State is in full swing when it comes to scholastic food and fruit. This cooperation exists, we do what the representative challenges us to get started. I have also said a little about staging campaigns. There's something we want to go on with. Finally, the representative, Mr Bekkemel Orheim, asked about my attitude in prohibiting slim products. I have to say that I'm meant to be able to do that, because we actually also have some obese people in this society who need a slim product to get a healthy lifestyle. We do not need to look away from that page altogether when we discuss this with eating disorders – anorexia and bulimia. But the way in which it is advertised for these products, and the way in which it is lured in relation to the various slim products, I would like to discuss with you. I would warn against prohibiting a slim product. But what's interesting to discuss is how the values of the slender product that you want to distribute are passed on. It has something to do with devices, what group it's going on, and whether it's just going through medical consultations. There's a good way to engage in a dialogue with people who don't actually need these products in the advertising campaign today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e614	President! It was a little misunderstanding. I didn't mean bans on slim products, but against advertising for that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e621	All right!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e626	As both Karita Bekkemelm Orheim and the Council of State have pointed out, the causes of eating disorders are complex. No one believes that politicians alone can solve these problems. But we have to do what we can, and I'm especially concerned with two areas where we can actively contribute to preventing eating problems. We may have to admit that many teachers have too little knowledge of eating disorders. Therefore, we need to have targeted work in school, and the competence of teachers needs to be strengthened. Here are the centres of excellence that the Workers' Party will propose today, a central task. At the same time, the school health service is an important offer for those who want to talk to. But in many municipalities it is simply not a good enough offer today. Therefore, it is good that the Council of State now says that the Government will strengthen the school health service. This is a very important measure to prevent eating disorders and increase knowledge among health professionals. Today there are a number of slim products on the market: powder, pills, tea, creams – we have all heard about them. The advertisement for these products often conveys that 3 cm for wide thighs or 5 kg too much is a beauty problem. Advertising often conveys a message of wonders: You can go down 5 kg in three weeks. Or, now you can slim down without eating less. Prohibiting the use of advertising that conveys an unhealthy image of the body is very problematic, as the international fashion, model and advertising industries may not be stopped by bans. But just as we have a ban on advertising alcohol and tobacco in Norway, I think we need to be able to introduce a ban on advertising slim products. We have to remember that it is not only adults who see this commercial, but also children, and many young children have parents who eat powder at home instead of dinner. It's not natural, and it can't possibly be healthy. Those who need the products, those who have major weight problems, can get help from their doctor or pharmacist. But it's an important signal if we don't see the advertising of these products. The Council of State opened it up, and I would like the Council of State to confirm that she will seriously consider imposing a ban on slimming.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e638	A wave of tragedies where children and young people are the victims blame our country. Eating disorders, suicides, sexual abuse and drug abuse seem to increase in the extent of our enlightened and rich welfare society. While eating disorders in the past were considered a special problem for teenage girls, we now see that even young children and both sexes are affected. The causes seem to be complex and often psychological. But isn't anorexia and eating disorders primarily an unconscious call for help, a symptom that something is wrong? Research and trying to identify the complex cause complex may be a good idea to leave to the researchers. However, I would like to point out some basic needs of children and young people. This is no charge against parents who from now on bear great burdens, and who want their children the very best, rather a reminder of simple truths. Children need security and love – knowing that they are loved as they are, by those who are closest to them. This is not always expressed in clear words, but also through the small and large signals we give them along the way, consciously and unconsciously, by our attitudes and priorities. Children can be difficult on such signals as to the position they have in the hearts of their neighbors. People who have experienced anorexia in their youth have told me how they thought and reacted to their surroundings. Common to them was that they should slim down to improve their exterior, but the basic reason they conclude today is rejection from some of their closest. The necessary certainty that they were loved as they were was missing. It passed into performance thinking to be accepted. Could they become smarter, brighter, more beautiful – slimmer? That was at least something they could do with. The slimming and later anorexia became a way of getting control of your own body and your own life. These matters primarily concern the inner life of the family and must be resolved there first and foremost. Authorities may assist with professional information and guidance, but must also, through policy, provide framework conditions, choose solutions and prioritize resources in order to carry them in the right direction. We know that the need to be loved is not limited to any age group — it concerns young children and pre-school children, schoolchildren and young people in the vulnerable youth age where they really get to grumble on the outside world. For most of us, it may be that someone cares about us, which makes life worth living. And given the power of advertising, I think that a person who is safe on himself and has a positive self-esteem, will also stand stronger armed against the ideals of advertising trying to give us.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e655	It is commendable that the theme is on the Stortinge agenda. I guess you could also say it's high time. After all, it is a number of doctors who claim that eating disorders are the fastest growing people’s disease in today’s Western world. But what characterises this population disease is that it devastates with full weight in a particular life phase and age group, and it is – to relate it now to the wording of the interpellant’s questions – really neither children nor adults, but it is those who are in the middle of it, who, in our social form today, are neither unique children nor unique adults. And that's necessarily the most vulnerable phase of human life. Especially in the case of physical identity, it is without comparison the most vulnerable phase of human life. What characterizes the life cycle of our society today is that this transition period is inexorably much longer than before. In the old days, in pre-differentiated societies, each played two roles in life. The first part was a child, and for the rest of your life you were an adult. Both parts were unique roles, which were clearly defined, and the transition could be fixed even at the time: When you went into the service of confirmation, you were a child, and when you got out again, you were an adult. Today, people spend almost 15 years repatriating that distance, and in those years, they are neither children nor adults, but are alternately treated as one and the other – without ever realizing why. You're treated in one moment as a child and in the next moment as an adult. This is a very difficult challenge for both our education policy, our family policy and all the policies of this society. We have to take seriously that the life cycle is simply different in today's society than it was a generation ago and beyond. There's no simple handle that can solve this problem, and it's obviously because the eating disorder isn't really the disease, but the symptom of the basic disease, that identity, natural self-respect, is super difficult to win in this transition phase in our society today between childhood and adult age. If we are not able to solve the fundamental communication problem that lies here, all measures will be surrogate measures. After all, eating disorders are a taboo of a much more comprehensive problem, namely the increasing violence in modern society. For destroying one's own body is also a form of blind violence. I'm going to try to continue this, because we're getting a new interpellation debate on the same issue next time.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e670	It is an important theme to address today. Food intake and eating that should be the most natural and pleasant, has unfortunately become for many people a serious, morbid condition with difficult healing procedures. In March this year, I had an interpellation about the importance of the school meal based on the fact that very many students don't eat lunch or have lunch at school. The Nutrition Council has also called for caution on this and has proposed measures to improve the situation. Poor eating and eating habits can be one contributing factor in young people having an unnatural food intake relationship. It is tragic to see that more children and young people are unable to deal naturally with their diet and body. The fact that obesity is seen as a health problem can also in some cases cause young people to have abnormal attitudes to normal food intake, and slimming agencies to put time on expensive preparations and courses. I agree with the interpellant, which points out that, in addition to poor eating habits in the home, advertising and the search for ideals can be strongly contributing to children and young people experiencing eating disorders. It is not easy to be young and to meet all the demands and expectations of the environment. We who are so lucky to be able to cope with our everyday lives, have an obligation to focus our attention on all aspects of social development. I think it is particularly important to have a good health and social counselling service in school. We haven't been able to do these services well enough for now. I can't miss mentioning the sport either. Unfortunately, some training courses have been such that some practitioners have had problems with natural food intake and, for that reason, have been in the group of eating disorders. It is frightening to read that about 40,000 people under the age of 18 have serious problems with their food. It's actually two thirds of a school year's school year's school! This is a disgraceful figure for the rich of money in Norway. And it's not a simple answer to correct these disorders, which I understand is a combination of psychological and physiological disorders – but it was very interesting to hear the representatives of Inge Wohnung's reflections. It's important that eating disorders get their rightful place in the psychiatry plans. Having said that, I assume that the plans must be followed up by concrete measures, such as: information campaigns aimed at different youth settings and schools, refresher training of teachers and kindergarten staff, strengthening of health centres, building expertise in specialist health services, etc. In parallel with this, I think that we need to spend more time with our children and give them security, so that they get a good self-esteem despite the fact that not all body measurements meet the greedy demands of advertising and models. Furthermore, it is very important that the staff involved with children be trained to observe abnormality in relation to food intake at an early stage. However, the prevention side is the most important. Here attention must be paid to all levels where children and young people are located.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e696	I would first like to thank the interpellant for addressing this important question, and the debate shows that this is a very complex question that requires lighting from many sides. What I think is obvious is that one cannot discuss eating disorders in children without one at the same time looking at the diet and beauty controls also in adults. This is a growing boy problem, but still there is a predominantly girl and woman problem. 80 pst. of women and girls are dissatisfied with their bodies. So if you're a girl, a teenager and on a diet, you have the best chance of developing eating disorders. And slimming mom, the danger is that the 7 or 11-year-old will also slim down. Find Skårderud has once said that it must be as important to hide the slim powder as AG 3 in the family, if then there is an AG 3. Obviously, this is a lot of pressure in many areas. The interpellant pointed to it, and many others have also mentioned the pressure around it to be successful. But one must also look at the driving forces, who is interested in the fact that girls and women view themselves as defective, on which someone can repair it. Then one sees that there are big economic interests behind it, which would like to conquer new markets. The advertising industry is a lot of people who have thought about it here, and also the beauty industry, the slim industry and other powerful forces that unfold through the media. Among other things, I heard that Coca-Cola in the Drama announced: Cola light for one year for the one who could slim down the most in two weeks! The advertisement was fortunately stopped by ascending teenagers, and it turns out it is useful to do something. That's why, like the interpellant, I want to give tribute to the IKS, the interest group for women with eating disorders, to the girls who don't find themselves in the annual wall-to-wall tyranny from Hennes & Mauritz, and also to the Boys against Barbie, who have their origins in SU. We have to go to drastic measures and get a consciousness to stop the economic forces behind the slender press and the beauty rule. I see that time goes by, but I want to say a little bit about lack of physical activity. Slimming can often be a compensation for lack of physical activity, lack of good body experiences. Then it's a paradox that the school has reduced gymnastics both in scope and content. It must be right to give the children good habits and experiences with the body, both at school and in sport. That is why sport plays an important role here, and sport must see its responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e711	It is a very important debate the inter-pellant has put on the agenda today. It is really strange that this debate has not come into the political environment both earlier and more strongly, in line with other societal problems, such as: alcohol and drugs — things that actually affect young people’s health and even take their lives. It is shocking to read in newspapers and reports about tens of thousands of people who have eating disorders, about young children who are slimming, about girls who are even starving to death. The fashion industry, the advertising industry, the image of success related to how slender one is, how nice one looks, how the body is, is part of the cause image – the body ideal and the slender culture created by the big community. But this is not just a women's debate, not just a debate on girls, which is about girls, and which girls should participate in. There is a debate in which men too should engage, for several reasons – firstly because we men can not only sit and watch that our girlfriends, spouses, daughters or girlfriends have major problems with their self-image and the relationship to food, but also because this is not just a girl's problem. Many boys are also hit by eating disorders. A recent study showed that one in ten in the first time military service had a low self-esteem and food problems. In particular, boys active in sport are affected. Performance pressures, pressure from trainers and pressure to achieve high results are often the driving force behind these problems. A few weeks ago, we were shaken by a statement about a boy of eleven years who was admitted to a hospital with eating problems. It turned out that, if possible, treatment and support services for boys are even worse than for girls. Although there is also a need for enormous expansion and investment for the treatment and support services for girls, it may be worse for boys, not only because the organisations and interest groups that exist for girls do not have the capacity to help the boys affected, but also because boys and men have greater problems admitting that they have problems with food, more problems admitting that they need help. Therefore, it is important that the Government, if the inter-pellant's proposal to make a plan to help those who have a food refusal, is adopted, also puts the boys' situation on the agenda. So finally just a few words about slim products. I would like to ask whether the Council will assess whether slim products can only be sold in pharmacy. Then you wouldn't get the pressure, maybe even the advertising press, that you have in relation to slim products.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e724	Eating disorders are increasing. It is worrying when children slim down to the age of seven, and there is something serious wrong when there is not enough treatment for those who need it. Suffering if there are a few who get seriously ill, there are many who are in danger. This is why prevention is also very important in this area. There are many and complicated causes of eating disorders, but there can be no doubt that the pressure that has arisen about body fixation and slimming is an important reason why children and young people often develop an abnormal relationship with body and slimming. The models used by both the major fashion cabinets in Europe and in magazines and magazines at home often look both ill and undernourished. The thinner you are, the better. The fashion and slender press has reached small girls, and many experience the pressure from a fashion industry that increasingly makes baby clothes that are miniature editions of youth or adult fashion. Pop stars with bare stomach and longing dresses are often idolatrous for little girls. I also think that parents who are still on a diet, with slim powder as a natural part of the diet, often contribute to giving children a somewhat unnatural relationship to food. When the attitude is that H-milk is not good for children, but it is okay to drink light shower, we are on the wrong track. The fact that some children to some extent have a somewhat unhealthy relationship with normal food, whether it goes in one direction or another, is worrying. Teachers tell us about children who come to school without having lunch and without bringing a lunch. The alternative is to buy something in the kiosk, or at the bakery, or not to eat. Some schools here in Oslo have now introduced the old school lunch. Maybe there should have been more of the country's schools. There is a lot that needs to be done in the prevention of eating disorders, and we need to improve treatment provision considerably. Today, there are only 16 treatment sites on a national basis, and that is, of course, far from enough when we know that this disorder is the most common cause of death among young girls. And it's not just those who have become serious and life-threatening sick, who have to get an offer. Without treatment, many people will be struggling with eating disorders, and some people with mental problems, for the rest of their lives. I would also just like to refer to the proposal put forward by the Labour Party that centres of excellence should be set up in all regions. It is also appropriate to establish a single centre of excellence, which should be used by the outlying centres of competence. It's something that I also hope there'll be excitement, so you'll get a better grip on this problem than the case is today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e739	I also want to commend Karita Bekkemelm Orheim for addressing the problem. It's an important question that engages many, both politicians and people in the thousands of homes. There have been many different ideas about the cause and the possibilities of solving the problem here today, and I think everyone who has heard the debate agrees that the problem is serious and that it is important that it was put on the agenda. There is a need for action beyond the range of politicians, and action is needed that goes beyond sections, in order to achieve something that can improve the situation. However, I will be allowed to point to one thing that has not been mentioned here. When you talk about teacher training, you talk a lot about teachers having to be taught to see the symptoms, but it's just as important that teachers are taught not to trigger. When, for example, look at today’s high school education, with a high performance requirement already in high school — boys and girls have gymnastics in the same classroom, and after that they have to go through a shared shower — it is clear that there is also a germ for eating disorders for some people who are initially having problems. There is no doubt that children compare with others. And when you're going to act with others, the demands for success increase in relation to yourself. Therefore, teachers also need to be trained to be at the forefront of the problem and not just to detect symptoms, and they should be a little cautious about what demands they make to children in a gymnastics situation. It has also been suggested that there should be a ban on the marketing of lean products or that lean products should be sold in pharmacies. I don't think this is the way to go. I don't think we're going to get the problem through the ban on the marketing of slim products. Nor should we forget that overweight is also a major problem in our society, both among children and adults, and that many can benefit from the marketing of slim products. It is not a ban we need, but a framework for marketing, so that those who need information get information that is factual and sober. Finally, I would like to point out the responsibility that should lie at health centres, by following up children who have abnormal deviations in weight from their infancy. Obesity or underweight trends are often imposed while children are quite small, and by being at the forefront and having close contact with families, it is likely to prevent the problem from occurring – too many at least.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e750	I think that the debate on this matter has shown that there is a great political understanding of this disease. As Inge Wohnning correctly said, this is a challenge for both our education and family policies. I also agree with the representative of Tingelstad that we need to build special skills around the country. In this debate, we have talked a lot about what the disease is, and the reasons for it, but, as Pride-Nielsen said correctly, the action is going to take and must now take place. Next interpellation, from the representative of Marit Nybakk, will just focus on treatment and post-protection, so we'll hope that the political consensus is the same in the next interpellation debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e757	First, I would like to comment briefly on the advertising of a slim product. I'm going to evaluate what kind of tool is good in that way. I think it's dangerous to draw conclusions here and now, but the way the information about the products might come out is very important. Assessing whether the slim products are only to be sold in pharmacies is a rather complicated matter, which at least I cannot draw the conclusion at present. Many healthcare stores also sell some products. This is a large and complicated area, but I'm going to promise to evaluate the different sides of the sales of the slim product. I also want to highlight the importance of further work with voluntary organisations – as I said at my introduction – and I especially want to bring out the stakeholder organisations in this area. They're good partners, and they can join in and chisel out very safe methods of how we can meet the problem. Eating disorders, as many have said here, are also an increasing problem among boys. We have to be very conscious here. The girls are no longer the only girls who are tired. The good guys have the same pressure, and of course we have to think about it in relation to the different measures we have seen and we are going to start. Some people have pulled out the school here, and I think maybe we have a little too negative view of what the school does when it's about physical birth. There are many children's balls today where they actually go out in nature one day a week, and use it as part of the physical birth. This is something that will increase more and more. I think the school is conscious of what's going on physically in relation to the students. But one should, of course, include this in the further work. This is an important debate, and I think it is good that the interpellant has seen this on the agenda. I am also pleased with the cross-political agreement we have with regard to the issues. But we are not just coming forward with debate, we must also put in action. I'm glad of everything we've already seen -- we've started a process. The government is in the process of taking action on many of the areas that have emerged in the debate today, and of course we will continue this work. In the next interview, the Minister for Health wants to highlight some concrete things when it comes to health, health, etc., so I should not comment on the part of the challenges that go out of hand on an action plan or on the health page. But I'm happy to negotiate, and I'm pretty sure one in the next debate will also agree that there is action that is now required, not just talk about the problems.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e772	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e786	It's with joy I take over the staf stick. I think it's been a great debate in the last hour. I want to start by telling you about Lise, the niece of a friend of mine. She had anorexia when she was 11 years old. She was just skin and bone and a hair breadth from the dead when she finally received psychiatric and medical treatment. Everyone was relieved when Lise started eating again – the doctors, the family, the community. But that was when the girl got really sick. To prevent food from entering her body, she began to vomit and develop bulimia. She's now 28 years old, and she's still as bad. This may be the main reason why eating disorders are so difficult to treat. Health professionals are concerned about making the anorectists eat — naturally enough. They rarely understand that if the patient is not followed up with systematic after-care, they wonder the environment by what they eat is thrown up again. In the last hour, Stortinget has discussed prevention measures to prevent children and young people from developing anorexia and other eating disorders. Treatment provision and knowledge among different types of professionals are, if possible, even worse than prevention. It is essential that both the school health service, the primary health service and the specialist health service are able to do their part in diagnostics and treatment. First of all, there is a need for a significant build-up of skills in these disorders — in addition to strengthening treatment provision and aftercare. The few girls – and the boys – who today receive professional help either do not receive the support and treatment they really need, or fail in post-protection. Often, as I said, the competence of auxiliaries fails. Have we thought that an alcoholic, a smoker, or a drug addict can stay away from the drug that has caused addiction? A person suffering from eating disorders, however, must relate to food for the rest of his life. Have we thought through how difficult it must be to develop a natural relationship with food for one who has either had anorexia, developed bulimia or, for that matter, used food as a drug — overeating? Of course, the competence of health professionals, child protection workers and teachers must also include the various causes of eating disorders in order to be able to treat the disorder properly. A young woman who suffered from bulimia, as a child, had been assaulted by her father in the form of having to perform oral sex. The only way she could forget the taste in her mouth was to put food in her mouth absolutely 24 hours a day. Fortunately, the inhalants are only part of those that are affected by eating disorders. In our jets, more and more people are attaching their identity to the body, as the previous debate showed very clearly. Eigenvalue is going to be inversely proportional to the number of kilograms. We associate a voluptuous body with control, success, high moral and willpower, which I have written in the interpellation text. And in the weekly magazines, the little girls and teenagers can read that those who look good are also the ones who get the best grades, and who are also the easiest to get a job. A year ago, the pictures of the then demagogued Swedish Crown Princess went all over the world. My generation then remembers the strange female party in the song duo 'The Carpenters' died of anorexia. A growing number of successful and reverent young women suffer from eating disorders. Now, the ideals of beauty have been tough at all times. A hundred years ago, the girls were sneaking in with corsets, had to stand after each meal and fainted at the slightest effort. We remember how Chinese girls got their feet deformed. Still, it's getting grotesque when female actors in the U.S. are operating away from the lower ribs and getting the silicone pumped into the breasts to get the artificial barbucking figure. This is also about the social control of women. Women are valued as objects and are to be held in places where the power structures want it. In many countries, male elites use culture and religion as a basis for keeping women down. Small girls are circumcised and mutilated to prevent sexual pleasure. We can hardly imagine the pain and suffering, including: at intercourse and birth. To take eating disorders seriously, we need to make the right diagnosis and provide adequate treatment. We have to recognize that anorexia and bulimia as a mastery strategy in a body-fixed culture are perhaps as restrictive and inhibiting as twisted feet, use of veils and corsets or, for that matter, intersections – perhaps not to the fullest extent. The development of skills and offers is slow. I went through some question-time questions that have been asked earlier, and very many of the same issues have gone on again. Today, Modum Bad is considered to have the best treatment offer in Norway — with the risk of insulting others; it is not my opinion. They have 14 spaces. Hospitals and psychiatric institutions also offer services, but most hospitals can provide little more than coercive feeding and a few hours at psychiatrists a week. However, I believe that the worst thing is the total lack of knowledge on this subject among those who are first involved – in general practitioners, in primary doctors, in health sisters, in child protection workers. I could actually bring teachers, even though I think they're doing a pretty good job in this field. Eating disorders were a focus of the Action Plan on State Stimulation of Mental Health Protection and Mental Health, 1991-95. This should be done in a combination of prevention and treatment. In this context, in 1992 the then Health Directorate investigated the treatment provision for patients with eating disorders. There was also a ‘Project for eating disorders 93-95’. In the examination of the psychiatry report in 1997, it was proposed to strengthen the psychiatry of children and young people, which is also important in the context we are talking about here. Nevertheless, we still miss the concrete proposals that can show that Norwegian society recognises that eating disorders are a disease, that the numbers of darkness are large, that the causality is complex, and that there is a need for knowledge and competence. That is why I want to challenge the Minister of Health to improve the provision of treatment and the protection of patients and to increase their competence. I am sure – also seen in the light of the previous debate – that on these issues there is a cross-political consensus. I think it is important to stress that it should be, and that we should be together to try and get concrete action in the health sector. – How do we ensure early treatment in the local environment? How do we get long-term treatment and follow-up? How can we develop multi-disciplinary treatment that is targeted? How can we increase the competence of health services and other professional groups? How can we gain more knowledge about symptoms in the community, school, organisations and sports? – for the symptoms are very important in this case. If that's what I saw in a question-time question from Ellen Christine Christiansen in the previous period, that in 1995 the medical students at the University of Oslo had one – one – lecture on the problems of eating disorders, then it is necessary that the theme gets stronger into all the education of health professionals. The Labour Party has today made proposals to take the initiative to set up centres of excellence in all health regions and to strengthen nursing and medical training in this field. At the end of the day: Karita Bekkemelm Orheim has spoken before today about the responsibility of the model and advertising industry. After having browsed through several fashion magazines the last day because of this debate, I have to say that we, who look something like normal, don't have a chance there in the yard. It's spike-thin, flat-breasted 14-year-olds, 1.80 high and 45 kg. “I had almost said Marilyn Monroe would have been kicked off by today’s talent scouts. But to pretend that we have a counterweight to these monsters, there are a few other models, but they are in return so obese that they are not of the category most of us can identify with either. This is going to be a cross of thought. It should be a main task, as also the representative Orheim stressed, to really take up the fight against this category of fashion industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e828	The government agrees with the need to strengthen the supply of people with eating disorders. The government’s mental health escalation plan provides for a substantial financial enhancement of mental health protection. In addition to the efforts in the escalation plan, which will also reinforce measures for people with eating disorders, there is a need for a separate plan and upgrading in this field. Before I say anything about treatment, I have to say a few words about one of the conditions that help create eating disorders. Although recent years have focused on the unfortunate use of body ideals by the advertising industry and the media, this has not improved. The disease is closely related to conceptions in society, and I take a sharp distance from the body ideals that the media and the fashion industry convey. Advertising ideals of beauty and body fixation are destructive to young people’s self-image and help to increase the incidence of eating disorders. We need more of the popular uprising in this field. It must be made clear, especially for young girls, that success and a good life do not depend on having the same body shape or the same look as the models the advertising industry always uses. We cannot see a strengthening of treatment provision separately from the attitudes created in society. It's about raising respect for human dignity and giving young people self-esteem and self-respect regardless of how you're created. Providing a satisfactory offer to this group is perceived to be particularly challenging because it includes both psychiatry and somatics, the 1st and 2nd line service, and social and cultural factors. A challenge is also linked to the need for transfers between psychiatric wards, from paediatric and juvenile psychiatric to adult psychiatric wards. Most people who experience eating disorders get this at an age when treatment is available from children’s and adolescents’ departments, but the disease often lasts into adulthood, and the transfer procedures to adult psychiatric wards have been too poor. Attitudes of parents, friends, school, training places, etc. is important for prevention and post-protection. We know that the more institutions and levels that will work together to deliver a good deal, the more challenging it will be to design the offers. As part of the government’s work in this area, the State Health Authority has been given the task of developing a plan for future investment. The plan shall be communicated to the Ministry before the end of this year. In 1997, an expert conference on eating disorders was organised to gather knowledge and identify needs. It is granted for 1998 3 million. kr for the design of the plan, for different projects or model development, where the knowledge can be disseminated to the rest of the country and for skills-enhancing measures in the form of courses for health professionals. The plan will be part of the further stepping up of mental health efforts. Various prevention measures have been initiated in this area. A report on the prevention of eating disorders was prepared by the State Nutrition Council in 1997. In the past, a school curriculum has been developed and, as a follow-up to the report of the Nutrition Council, the material is now being processed and will be distributed via the National Educational Centre to all primary and secondary schools of the country. During the escalation period of psychiatry, health and school health services should be increased by 800 years of work to strengthen prevention, including prevention of eating disorders. Municipal and county municipal services to the target population vary. Much of the work in the municipalities depends on a specialist health service that can provide both general and concrete guidance. Some municipalities have established good services for the target population, others have developed plans for the area and are building up offers. Earmarked medicinal products for mental health protection have made it possible to strengthen this field. However, it is far before we get a satisfactory offer, the arrangements are different, some county councils have hardly mentioned eating disorders in their plans. Lack of plans need not necessarily mean a poor offer; there may be a lot of local competence. However, lack of planning often means poorer coherence between levels and poorer cooperation between departments. In recent years, competence has been significantly increased. Several professional conferences have been organised in this area, but there is still a great need for more systematised competences and for the dissemination of competences. When reviewing the existing supply of people with eating disorders, we must not forget the important self-help work done by user organisations. The user expertise is also important in this field. In the light of a clear need to strengthen the field, we now need the plan of the Health Inspectorate that has been ordered to promote recommendations on actions and how they should be organised and built, both in terms of treatment, after-sales protection and the strengthening of competences. Health supervision shall review the services offered in the counties. We still do not know enough about the occurrence, causes and effects of different treatments. Therefore, in the escalation plan, we have focused on strengthening research on eating disorders, especially in relation to children and young people, which is a particularly neglected area. The interpellant spent part of its time pointing to the need for skills building. Competence for eating disorders shall be available anywhere near the patient. Most psychiatric institutions and outpatient clinics have competence in the field. However, few counties or regions have organised services in more specialised units that can transfer competence to other parts of the health system. The aim is for each region to have specialised competence in this area, such as: was referred to in the opinion of the Social Committee for the psychiatry communication. Planning of the offer to people with eating disorders shall be part of the regular planning work of the county and health regions. In the context of the implementation of the escalation plan, a secretariat has been set up to assist the county councils in the planning process and the plans will trigger earmarked funds. It's per. today few county councils which have incorporated plans for the provision of meals to people with eating disorders in the ordinary planning work. This will be followed up by the Central Secretariat. Psychiatric health protection capacity is per year. Today too bad. As a result, few units have now been able to function as units of competence. The different environments have enough to accommodate patients from their own intake area. However, a dedicated centre of expertise has been established and financed by the Ministry. Health region 5 has established a Northern Norwegian Centre of Competence for Eating Disorders, which has been added to Tromsø. In addition, a network of expertise is established in the Nordic countries, which is also linked to the Centre of Competence. Health region 4 has been incorporated into the health plan to make Inherred Hospital in the North Trøndelag a competence unit in the health region 4. This has not yet been implemented. As the interpellant mentioned, Modum Bad has developed specific competences and a treatment offer in the field of eating disorders, which I would like to develop further. In the 1999 draft budget, the Government has therefore proposed that Modum Bad should be strengthened in its treatment provision for adults with eating disorders. The State Centre for Child and Youth Psychiatry, SSBU, provides services to children and young people in the Oslo area and builds skills for the rest of health regions 1 and 2. Local protection and follow-up pose a particular challenge. The new laws that will soon be promoted by the Storting place great emphasis on the whole of the treatment network. The plan to be drawn up by the Health Authority will point to measures aimed at increasing the interaction between the 1st and 2nd line services, which has been a neglected area. The community health service needs professional guidance from the 2nd line service, and successful treatment provision depends on follow-up and aftercare in the municipal health service. Municipal counsellors have been appointed at all county medical offices to help implement the escalation plan in the municipalities. Both municipal counsellors and the secretariat shall focus on the mutual interaction between service levels. It is important that the institutions of the 2nd Line Service establish contact with the municipal health services, parents, schools, etc. when a person is issued by the specialist health service. In this way, the 1st Line Service can develop skills that are both useful for individual patients and that contribute to prevention in relation to others. The SSBU has been commissioned by the Health Inspectorate to conduct training in the building of competences for health professionals. The courses, starting in the autumn, shall enhance the competence of the entire processing network. Therefore, one third of the places are reserved for community health personnel. Courses have a half-year duration, and health regions 1 and 2 are prioritised in this round. The aim is to extend to the other regions after the first course has been completed. Let me end by mentioning that user organisations in the field of eating disorders have an important role to play. I mention, for example, the interest group for women with eating disorders and the Anorexia/Bulimia Association as important partners in the development of services. Organisations carry out an important self-help work that many experience as a necessary complement to the public offer. They have received financial support for the creation and further development of self-help groups and for a general organisational structure. We aim to continue this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e871	Let me first on behalf of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim, Asmund Kristoffersen and myself take up the proposals No. 1-3, which is distributed in the seats of the representatives. Then I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I think the health minister's answer shows that there is a broad consensus both on these questions and on the political will to do something. I was quite lifted by several of the proposals for measures mentioned by the Council of State. I would like to say that some of the things that really mattered to me in the spring session were the letters I received from the desperate parents after I wrote an article about eating disorders. Several of them were about to give up, and it was not least about the relationship with the auxiliaries, with the health care system. Someone had lost their children, they had just starved to death. The parents had very little to do with. The despair and desperation were linked to a total lack of competent follow-up. And that's what we're talking about, not just being coerced once a week and going to a psychologist sometimes, but getting a proper, competent follow-up. It is important that we have been earmarked for mental health protection, and that we strengthen the psychiatry, as the Council of State also stressed. Competence in eating disorders is so much so that it is important that, within the designation of resources for children’s and adolescents’ psychiatry, we also label these kinds of disorders so that they do not drown in other children’s and youth’s psychiatry. With regard to the competence of the healthcare system in both the 1st and 2nd line services – and it's about somatic and psychiatry, i.e. not just the psychiatry – I think it's important, as I said in my post, that the primary doctors, she or he, decide a go to, like, the home doctor, have competence in this area. I am very pleased that the Council of State proposes to strengthen the treatment offer at Modum Bad. A daughter of a close political friend has for years walked out and in by various psychiatric institutions as a result of eating rejection, and it's only when she comes to Modum Bad that something happens. And this doesn't demean for other institutions, but I think that kind of competence needs to be spread to the rest of the health system. I want to challenge the Council of State in terms of our proposal on competence in the education system.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e884	With regard to the issue of skills development, I agree with the interpellant that there may be every reason to assess how this competence is being built today, not only through the provision of continuing training, which I had in my post, but also in the basic training of health professionals. I am committed to evaluating this issue in cooperation with other departments concerned. As regards the issue of setting up centres of excellence, my opinion is that it is necessary to have units of competence in the different health regions linked to treatment departments. How this should be organised in practice, I think it is natural to decide in the context of the specific plan that the Health Inspectorate has been asked to submit, where this will be more closely affected. As regards proposal No: 3, as far as I can judge, the plan we are preparing is already a response to that proposal. I also note with pleasure the consensus that it seems to be in today's debates about this field, and also about the strengthening of the treatment offer and the competence of Modum Bad, in which I agree with the interpellant, is a very promising treatment offer. I have visited Modum myself and had the opportunity to make a closer acquaintance with both patients and personnel involved in this offer. Finally, let me also agree that primary medical competence is important in this field. That's one of the reasons why I've started an assessment of whether not all doctors in their education and in their turn practice must through psychiatry, one of the major areas of Norwegian medicine that are not covered by the practical part of medical training, and I think it's time to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e897	Knowledge among health professionals in general about the prevention and treatment of people with eating disorders is far from good enough except for some demarcated environment. The most important thing now is to build up competence both in the prevention and treatment chain as well as in the after-care system. Our proposal to establish centres of expertise with professionals in all five health regions is important in this context. Such centres of competence shall, as described in the psychiatry bulletin, i.e.: St.meld. No 25 for 1996-97, be a multidisciplinary organisation with a special responsibility for research, professional development, guidance and education. Such a centre of competence should then be followed up with a mental health department in each health region, so that a specific function of competence in both diagnosis and treatment of eating disorders is provided. Such a department shall also be able to provide the necessary advice to hospital departments, outpatient clinics and community health professionals. I stress the importance of equipping the 1st Line Service with expertise, in particular health nurses, psychiatric nurses and doctors. Psychologist Charlotte Buhl says in the book «The Battle of the Body» that the development of eating disorders starts for most people in puberty and is triggered in approx. two thirds of the cases of a diet. I also refer to what the health minister here said about the advertising and fashion industry and join in to his views. I don't think it's enough just to raise the competence of health professionals. In primary school curricula, prevention of health work is highly concentrated. Teachers are in daily contact with students and are often adults who spend most time with children and young people. Therefore, they also have great opportunities to prevent and identify eating disorders. I have very long experience as a principal in primary school, and I have, like my colleagues in school, totally inadequate knowledge of eating disorders. I therefore believe that the competence of teachers needs to be strengthened. Eating disorders are not a visible theme in teacher training. Training of teachers is essentially a municipal responsibility, but on this issue the education directors have to take special responsibility for coordinating such training in close contact with the county health service and the competences I expect to be established. Like the representative Nybakk, I am pleased with the health minister's views and believe that we can reach a step on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e912	“There are few things we know for sure about the causes of eating disorders, but we know that slimming can be a trigger,” says first amanunensis Jan Rosenvinge in the Evening Post in January of this year. He believes that slimming is basically a private matter, but that the problem arises because the slimming becomes something about the environment. This is underlined by the fact that, especially for athletes, there has been a serious problem with both anorexia and bulimia. Dr. Jorunn Sundgot Borgen recently presented a comprehensive research report showing that by 46 p.m. by female landsliders in ethical sports in Norway are struggling with such problems. Sundgot Borgen claims that there are twice as many people with eating disorders in top-notch as in society. These figures must be taken seriously by sports leaders and clubs. They must take a closer look at their own environment and this horrific development. However, it is not only in the field of sport that the problems of eating disorders are increasing. Nor is it true that there are only slimmers who fail and who get these problems. It is important, in my view, to have a life situation that makes it possible to avoid mental problems and depressions that could lead to these major problems. Here I think the family and the homes have an important role to play. The family is an important factor that should be strengthened in order to provide the framework for children and youth that provides good habits and social relationships. Eating disorders are also becoming an increasing health care problem. In particular, psychiatry must facilitate the better and wider treatment of these disorders. In June this year, the Stortinget, against the votes of the Progress Party and the SV, decided to transfer the State Center for Child and Youth Psychiatry to the Municipality of Oslo. I am afraid that in this area there will be much worse offer from this special institution after it is taken over by the Municipality of Oslo, and will be a haven and a handicap in the further offer to especially this group of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e923	There is an important issue that the interpellant has addressed. Eating disorders are a major, diverse and widespread problem. I agree with the views expressed by the Minister for Health and, in the light of his two speeches, would urge the proposers to make the three proposals for transmission proposals. So I just want to make a few comments, which are based partly on personal experience in treating such patients. Firstly, eating disorders are a complex problem, which there is reason to believe will be even more widespread because it's about the relationship with your own body and therefore about your own self-image. Then the eating disorders tend to hit young people in an uncertain period of development, where well-intentioned remarks such as ‘the way you look’ can trigger health-threatening slime cures. Of course, the fact that the body and the body image are becoming increasingly commercialized today does not improve the situation. Secondly, I think eating disorders have complex causes. In the pursuit of psychological, biochemical and genetic causes or factors, it is important to remember that one does not exclude the other. That's why it's also important that we don't unilaterally focus on just one or the other of these subjects. So we're going to be in the third area, the health consequences of what we know about the complex problem of eating disorders. I think the point is multidisciplinary bet and cooperation. But it's not just the health service. Public information is likely to be a key factor in this context — a means of achieving good attitudes and avoiding unfortunate body fixations. So this is not just a responsibility for health, but also for parents, family for others, friends and friends, and not least for organizations of all kinds, especially those that need to be somewhat body-fixed. So it also applies not least to the media, which can build up and break down, but which to a great extent cultivates the successful, also not least both indirectly and directly, what is perceived as the successful look. Only in this way can society as a whole support and not disrupt the efforts of the health care system for those who suffer from eating disorders. We do not know enough about the causes of the eating disorders, but it is obvious that many environmental factors provoke such problems – and we must do all we can to prevent them. We don't want human dignity and self-image to be measured in kilograms, neither by plus nor minus on the weight.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e940	I would like to pay tribute to the representatives of Nybakk and Bekkelem Orheim who have put this question on the agenda. This has gradually evolved into a major social problem, not least it is a tragedy for those who are being affected. The problem has been described in detail by both the Councils, the proposers and several representatives. As many people have experienced, there are up to 120,000 people who suffer from eating disorders — 25 000 – 30000 of whom are young people aged 25 to 30. Three thousand children under the age of 18 in Oslo suffer from eating disorders. A Swedish study shows that 20 pst. The 7-year-olds are dissatisfied with their bodies. But eating disorders don't just hit women. As others have said, I will also mention a survey of 1,200 soldiers showing that one in 10 young men is also struggling with eating disorders. It has been mentioned here that this can also be a problem in the sports community. But that's just ten pst. of those who suffer from eating disorders who have anorexia. Most people take care of those who are hard hit, the horrors, and that can lead to these problems not being taken seriously by the health care system. Because many think that the problem is not serious enough, they also hesitate to seek help. If you have anorexia, you might get easier attention than being overweight or overeating. But anorexia is more dramatic. In the event of overweight, it is easy to believe that the problem has something to do with a lack of willpower, but it is not. In any case, eating disorders are usually about emotional conflicts. Under the surface, it's about failing self-esteem and low self-esteem. Prevention, of course, is important. The main resources are the parents. Parents must give knowledge of the problems and show the importance of children being safe on themselves and their own bodies. Parents are important role models. Families, therefore, have a great responsibility. That's why it's important to have strong family relationships. It is, as the Minister for Health was in it, far until we have received a satisfactory offer, but it is happening very much positively, and I think this debate shows a political will to do something. I believe that centres of excellence for the prevention and treatment of eating disorders in all health regions will help to increase competence and awareness, and not least for the development of treatment provision, whether for families, individual or community health services. It is also clear that there is a need to provide health professionals with more knowledge of this. It also applies in school. The school also needs more knowledge of reasons for initiating prevention measures. We believe, as I said, that this has been a positive and good debate, and we support the proposals that have been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e951	It is commendable that this will be put on the agenda in Stortinget. It is a big and complicated problem that creates great despair, also with tragic outcomes and outputs for many. But it's a complicated problem, like, for example, The Minister of Health was here. It concerns both psychiatry and somatics, there are several levels and treatment units in our healthcare system, and it has both cultural and social aspects, among others. relative to trends in body development and eating habits. It's a pleasure, then, that there's a broad and cross-political consensus here. For my part, I would like to point out what the representative Marit Tingelstad said in connection with the interpellation that was being treated before this. In the case of eating disorders, multidisciplinary knowledge and treatment, increased competence in all areas of health, school and at all stages, prevention, symptom detection, treatment, aftercare and follow-up are very important. As the Health Minister said, I think there is also a need for a people's uprising against this, against the fashion and trend pressure, so that the market and the advertising industry notices that there is no ground for and response to their aggressive marketing and trending in terms of part of the cause of this development. Culture, health and the environment are good keys to developing a healthier society. I think it's important to remember some of the old concepts in that context. Physical activity was mentioned in the previous debate, and I think that is very important. We had a term that was called «physical birth» earlier, which I think we should bring up again, along with the term «a healthy soul in a healthy body». It is important that we have physical activity, but perhaps without part of the pressure that we see today in terms of performance and body focus. Diets and attitudes in individual homes and around young people are important, and many may need to be self-reliant. Then it's the public sector. Health centres, school health services and primary health services are those that may be able to detect these problems as quickly as possible. One thing I want to focus on in this context, and that's the school health service in high school. It's easy to fall out a little bit, and it's very important that it follows up these things. Particular attention should be paid to the transition from childhood and youth to adulthood as society has set the age gap. The Minister of Health himself was concerned about this when it came to psychiatry. The Social Committee pointed this out in the last period, and I hope that it can be followed up very closely now, so that no ports in no man's country or be caste balls between the different levels. The promotion of psychiatric centres and outpatient clinics is important. It is even more important that those competences come out to primary health services, so that they can be added to the level at which children and young people are at a difficult time and where they can develop eating disorders.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e965	I can only stress what others here have said that it has been both an exciting and rewarding debate. There has been much agreement on the points of view that have emerged. However, I believe that there is a very strong emphasis here on the treatment aspect, that health professionals should be able to solve these problems in a way that strengthens education and auxiliaries. Of course, that's a point in itself, but you also have to focus on the causal relationship. I'm going to think that if you go into different causes, the disagreement is going to be bigger than what's been expressed here, because you're putting a lot more of a sort of political spotlight on a society that's changing and the reasons for it. I think that Inge Wohnning had a very good point when he mentioned the change that has occurred in society in relation to youth. Now I don't think getting confirmed will solve the problems, and that wasn't his point either. However, researchers must be able to show that today's youth is a group that is subject to very strong pressure from many, and not least from market players, has an impact on the development of this type of disorder. I think it is interesting in this context to refer to an article that appeared in the Evening Post on 26 September this year, where Director Bjørn Petter Ulvær in Feedback Research and Consulting stated: ‘But the ethical awareness of working with children as a target group has been so high among our customers that it approaches paralysis.’ So there is one that has to do with marketing – and one has to discuss this in forums, among other things. in the field of business — which says that it is a problem that ethics is so high that it is not significantly affected by children and young people. It shows how attentive we as politicians must be to the consequences if, for example, we are to be. Businesses are allowed into arenas where they strictly have nothing to do — not least at school, where there is now a free supply of different products. It may be dairy products, and in that sense not necessarily unhealthy, but if one does not have a consciousness related to the arenas for which the public should stand, and where one should just exercise health and at least have an almost objective or neutral influence, one creates a development that is extremely unfortunate because young people and children have nowhere to go to get more neutral and factual information. The same thing I think is true in the health care community. I don't think market actors have anything to do, for example, in the Rikshospitalet, which is now seen in relation to McDonald's. In turn, letting in those kinds of actors, and society is not going to meet them with attitudes, means that there is some sort of confusion in the youth environment as to what is healthy and good ideals when those who were to stand for them and represent them, stand for treatment or information, even mixes these symbols in such a way that the signals become incomprehensible. Therefore, we also need a greater degree of clarity in relation to the role of market players in the public arena.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e983	There are important and topical issues that Karita Bekkellem Orheim and Marit Nybakk have brought up today, and they should be commended for that. At the same time as one sees that the average weight of the population is rising, and that this is alarming, one sees on the other hand that a large group of children and young people have major problems. There are complex causes behind this, and there are several people who have mentioned some of them in today's debate. To date, assistance or treatment is largely influenced by the surrounding relief measures, and this has only a short-term effect. The young have too many siblings for themselves. It is good, therefore, that one in the proposal for a government budget has put in money to give room for increased efforts to prevent nutritional work and increase school attendance. Especially the last one I have great faith in. The health services both in the youth school and in the secondary school must be important support players in fighting eating disorders. In the new psychiatry plan, there is also an increase in staff training, and it is not least important to get many footmen who have a good knowledge of these problems. As the Minister of Health said, the number of institutions and levels to cooperate, the greater the challenges. And getting a future plan with a wholehearted commitment, as the Minister of Health said that one is now working to get ahead, is the way to go. I also thought it right to mention the family in this context. It's been said that 80 pst. – sometimes it means, but I've heard 85 pst. – of us women are dissatisfied with the appearance, and weight and slimming are often in focus. We grow up, mothers and fathers must therefore take responsibility — a great responsibility — for our young people, and not transfer attitudes that reflect a belief that the thinner you are, the happier you become. We have a great responsibility to be ideal for our children. In Norway we are sports-interested, and the pursuit of sports is healthy for body and soul. There is evidence that very many active athletes — both men and women — have eating disorders. Requirements for performance hazards and the focus on nutrition in that context have become more and more important. Ensuring the competence of all our skilled athletes is therefore important to prevent eating disorders. It is therefore very positive that the Minister of Health and the Minister of Children and Family now wants to address this in order to ensure that our organisations have more competence when it comes to eating disorders. I feel that today's debate is a long step further, and there is a great deal to be done on both treatment and prevention when it comes to eating disorders.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e998	The case concerns 100,000 Norwegians — young women constitute the largest group, but also adult women, boys and men. We in the community around them ask us why, and we've been doing that for a long time. We've got a lot of different answers and more definitions and causal contexts. But I think the answers that we get are fractions of truth and not the whole picture. And why do I think that? Well, because there's still too little research on the diseases. It must be studied more closely for systematic studies, and larger groups of people with these disorders. If we can get complete and correct answers, we can also process them properly. It's the way in the world of medicine that before you know the whole picture, you can't treat it properly. Like many others, I also fully agree that health sisters and general practitioners, such as the dubious parents and the patients themselves first, may be far too little about eating disorders. Therefore, as I said, more research needs to be done, but also more attention needs to be paid to knowledge of eating disorders in health education and in others working with and among children and young people. There should be health care provision for all young people throughout Norway, where advice and assistance could be provided early, before the disease has come too far. Today, many parents, friends, friends and teachers see that something is wrong and tries to help as best they can, but feel that nothing helps – it's like talking to the wall. But the real reality is that parents think what they see when their daughter eats really, and can't understand that she's still getting thinner and thinner. The health service offers forced feeding with intravenous nutrition or probe feeding in the case in question, finally coming to the hospital, but this is a treatment only to survive there and there, it is not a treatment aimed at healing and finding out the real causes. It's like saying these relationships we have to put everything into finding out by more research, like quotas for female research fellows to work on this particular issue, because I think it's those who might be able to do this job the very best. We need to bring together the expertise in centres of excellence that will make a proper medical environment around this disorder. You can also get proper treatment at the right time before the disease has come too far.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e1009	There are constantly new diseases or new diseases in our society, and by closer inspection they may not be so new yet, but at least we are now better able to see these disorders, better able to register them, and perhaps even better able to understand them. If we look back, we can see a ripple in medical science, but we can also see – if we are willing – that some form of status pyramid has emerged within the various disorders. It may seem that certain sufferings have a higher status for all of us, and are therefore more the subject of research, professional debate and methodological development. Nervous eating disorders have been among the diseases or disorders that are long, far below this status pyramid. It has at least two consequences. First, of course, it means that skills building in the treatment staff does not progress with storm chalk and, second, that treatment provision is generally inadequate. But it is also true that low-status disorders are not something you stand up for, but instead try to keep hidden. And this will further reinforce the consequences of suffering, or at least have such a strengthening effect. I am aware that there are some methodological debates going on in school medical circles, and that there are some treatment services outside established medicine for these kinds of disorders. Not a lot of knowledge is needed to understand that eating disorders are complex and complex disorders – this debate here today, I believe, has given a clear picture – i.e. those that require treatment at a high professional and competent level. It will, of course, be a social obligation to establish treatment services that can meet this need both in scale and competence and perhaps also in diversity. I hope that the interpellations here today and the debates we have had have helped to give this area greater attention in the relevant environments, and that perhaps you will be willing to look with interest at the full range of needs that are present both in the prevention work and in the treatment, and at the needs that exist after the treatment has been completed. The representative Alvheim was involved in this with sport, and several have also mentioned it. The fact that our trainers and managers here need to get more insight is one of the areas that I think you should look very carefully at. And finally, the Council of State called for popular uprisings against the physical fixation of certain environments. Now it's not often that state councils are urging people's uprisings, but this very time I think it's in place, and I think we're all going to stand behind this uprising.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e1026	Research and professional medical treatment services are important, but as far as this particular problem complex is concerned, I would warn against believing that we have the prospect of winning the war by focusing on that approach. If there is any point where it is essential to see the need for prevention, it is well in this area. After all, eating disorders are almost a classic example of a cultured disease, a disease that does not originate from biological conditions, but is created by quite specific body ideals that have long since lost ground and connected to biological reality. I suggested here in the previous round with the interpellation debate that a significant approach to this problem, which is clearly increasing in scope all the time, must be to see that it is a tab of a much larger problem, namely that we have developed a cultural body ideal that comes further and further away from the real body in all phases of life. We've developed beauty ideals that are really unnatural, because beauty, at today's rate, is about to look like you haven't lived a single day. You don't have to carry visible traces anywhere on your body because you've lived. The aging process is really the elementary mechanism behind all life; it is the condition that life can exist on this globe in the form it has. And we've developed a culture that has a basic neurotic relationship to them. Because it is necessary to see that eating disorders in the youth generation are a reflection of what is happening to the adult community as a whole. When it is possible to market ‘body sculpture’ as a good offer — a few years ago called fat sucking — when it is possible to imagine that the surgeon’s knife is available to eliminate the effects of absurd lifestyle, then we have actually come quite a long way towards a culture of violence. Because that's actually what this is all about: practicing violence on the real body to get it to vote with a cultural body ideal. Actually, it is profoundly thoughtful that we live in a culture that has been so body-fixed, but that has been body-fixed in the completely distorted way, that is, fixed by the dream body instead of the real body. The condition for man to respect the body of others – we live in a culture where violence continues to increase – is that it has learned to respect its own body. Self-respect a key to respect for other people.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e1035	The President assumes that the interpellant wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e1038	I would like to thank you for the debate, and I would like to thank the boys who have taken part in this debate without any reduction for my female co-representatives. We really appreciate that they've done that. Karita Bekkelem Orheim and I wanted to get this debate on eating disorders into the staging room. We wanted to discuss the needs, get concrete proposals for action, and, as Kjell Engebretsen said, help to pay greater attention to this problem. I would also like to join very much of what Inge Wohnung said in the post we just heard, which also shows the link between strengthening treatment provision and doing something about attitudes and prevention. The last is perhaps the most difficult in terms of eating disorders, and perhaps even more difficult to put into practice. For us, it is therefore necessary to have an action plan to look at both prevention and treatment provision. I listened to the Council of State when he spoke about the centres of expertise, and I understand that the department is developing centres of expertise linked to what he called treatment departments. I do not know if the Council of State can say a little bit more about how these centres of expertise are now developing, whether research is being added to the same centres, and whether it is such that both those who suffer from eating disorders, their relatives, health professionals and teachers can benefit from the kind of centres of expertise that were also mentioned in the psychiatry bulletin. Then I am particularly pleased with what the Council of State said about all doctors in their education and tour practice should be through psychiatry. I hope that the Council of State will follow up, because if you can also put this in that psychiatry with eating disorders, we've come a long way. Finally, I would like to say that I see it as very important that the plan from the Health Authority comes. I remember a question-time question from Ellen Chr. Christiansen from 1996, where she also asked for that plan. I think that might be one of the measures that need to be taken. Then we will also have the opportunity to discuss the issue of eating disorders again.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e1053	I would also like to thank you for a very interesting day here in the Chamber on this important subject, and to thank the initiators of the debates. There are two statements from two of the representatives in the debate that I will take on board at the end of this debate. The representative's salary talked about a culturally-created disease. The representative, Ballo, pointed to the need to put a political spotlight on social issues, not just on treatment provision. I said a good deal about the treatment offer in my first answer. I think that's reason to stress that what we've really been discussing today is fundamental value issues. There's a debate about what kind of society we want, there's a debate about respect for human dignity no matter what external appearance, there's a debate about caring and caring about, there's a debate about how strongly materialism is going to get hold of our culture. That is why I agree that prevention should focus on youth culture, family patterns, the role of schools, etc. In conclusion, I would like to stress once again that I will follow up on the planned work of the Health Authority and ensure that we do not only have a stepping-up plan to which resources are attached – we do – that we not only have a general timetable for mental health, but that we also have a special plan in relation to the treatment provision for people with eating disorders. In this respect, I see it as natural that we consider the best way to organise health skills units in this field. We have experience building on from North Norway, and we're getting experience in Trøndelag. In this context, I agree that this should be a broad competence, where one also develops competence through research. With this, I would say that the issues that have been raised and that are expressed, among other things. in the proposals that have been put forward, should be caught up in what is now to be done in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e1066	So the debate is on case No. Three o'clock. [[Recommendation of proposals, see next page.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e1074	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e1089	Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e1095	During the interpellation debate, Marit Nybakk has put forward three proposals on behalf of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim, Asmund Kristoffersen and himself. The proposals are distributed in the Chamber, and the President notes that they are available in an amended version. Mrs Nybakk has the floor for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e1102	The Minister for Health, in particular recently, has outlined the work currently being done to establish centres of excellence for the prevention and treatment of eating disorders — centres of excellence targeting both health professionals and teachers and those affected by eating disorders. He has also explained that we are getting an action plan for the Storting from the Government on eating disorders, with concrete measures. We are pleased with the presentation by the Council of State on these two points, so on behalf of the Labour Party, we are now making the proposals No. 1 and 3 on transmission proposals, but retains the substance of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e1109	Mr Neess has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e1112	I am pleased that the rapporteurs have converted the proposals. 1 and 3 for transmission proposals. As regards proposal No: 2, we agree with the intentions of the proposal, and I recommend that the representatives of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e1119	Like the last speaker, I am also pleased that the proposals No. 1 and 3 are transmitted, as the intentions of these proposals, I hope, are well respected in the plan announced by the Government. Proposal No. 2 I would recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e1126	SV supports proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox We don't have any problems going in for it, so I would recommend the SV's group vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e1131	I am also pleased that the proposals No. 1 and 3 were sent. The Minister of Health has made it very clear the intention of the announced action plan. I would also like to refer to proposal No. 2, advise the Right-wing Representatives to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05.ana.ud1513e1138	We have thus come to an end in terms of explanations of vote. The President then noted that the representative, Mr Nybakk, had asked for proposals No. 1 and 3 are converted into transmission proposals. Proposal No. 1 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government establish centres of excellence for the prevention and treatment of eating disorders in all health regions. In particular, centres of competence shall focus on the training and training of health professionals and teachers as well as on providing guidance to patients and their dependants.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government draw up a comprehensive action plan for the control of eating disorders, in particular targeting children and young people.’ The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider including eating disturbance knowledge as an element of the basic training of nurses and doctors.’
