ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e31	The called alternate of Akershu County, André Kukkestad, has taken the seat. The requested alternate of the State of Telemark, Gunn Marit Helgesen, is requested to be exempted from the meeting of the representative of Ingvald Godals’ leave from 30 November to 3 December due to sickness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be dealt with promptly and be accepted. Other alternates of the Telemark County, Kari Lise Holmberg, are called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e63	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that debates be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e74	Recently, very different practices have been found in our hospitals regarding the treatment of abortion material. Clear guidelines are needed, as soon as possible, so that the women concerned are involved, and hospital staff can be confident that the handling is carried out in a respectful and dignified manner. In St.meld. No 16 for 1995-96, On experience with the law on abortion, etc., it was suggested that the State Health Authority should develop guidelines to ensure respectable and equal treatment of aborted foetuses. In 1996, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health commissioned the State Health Commission, and an external project group was set up to make proposals. The proposal was handed over to the State Health Inspectorate in January 1998 and was then sent for consultation. The project group proposed inter alia: all abortions, all abortions and all foetal tissues were to be committed anonymously in the churchyard. There was no distinction between spontaneous and aborted foetuses, and this was to apply to abortion material regardless of when the abortion was carried out in pregnancy. The proposal created strong reactions in the political environment and among the people most. In particular, the reactions were strong against the fact that abortion material from provocative abortions was equated with stillborn children and older foetuses. This is, as I understand it, the background for Document No. 8:96, and the proposers believe that the project group's proposal violates the conditions of the law on self-determined abortion. Reference is made to the fact that the Storting has not discussed the premises for guidelines for general treatment of abortion material, although St.meld. No 16 for 1995-96 discusses the guidelines on the use of foetal cells and abortion material for research purposes and for medical treatment. The members of the Committee of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Right and the SV agree with the intention of the proposal and the need to discuss the political basis for the development of guidelines on abortion material. In particular, these members have responded to the proposal that all foetuses, all abortion material and all foetal tissues should be reduced in the memory without the consent of the woman. After the project group’s proposal had been consulted, the final proposal for guidelines was forwarded to the Ministry of Social and Health. The proposers promoted Document No. 8:96 based on the preference of the project group. Since then, we have received the final proposal from the State Health Authority, which has a completely different content. The government reports in St.prp. No 1 for 1998-99 to establish during the autumn guidelines for the management of aborted foetuses and the guidelines to be based on the applicable law on abortion. There is sufficient disagreement in the Committee on the Government's statement in the budget to allow the Storting to discuss the policy basis for guidelines. The majority, the Labour Party, the Advance Party and SV, promote a proposal asking the Government to come back to Stortinget with their own case. The Labour Party, the Advance Party and the SV will themselves make their views known. The minority of the Committee, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Centre, believe that the presentation in the budget is a good starting point for discussing the political basis. Although there is a majority for this matter to come back to the Storting, there is a need to elaborate on some points of view. The right, Christian People's Party and the Central Party will stress that the WHO definition, which sets the limit between abortion and stillbirth to 22 completed gestational weeks, will be used as the basis for the preparation of the guidelines. The guidelines will thus include the handling of foetuses, both spontaneous and provocative, to 22 completed gestational weeks, except where digging is used. The guidelines shall apply to hospitals and health professionals and shall cover all abortions, but not stillbirths. The hospital must ensure that aborted foetuses to 22 completed gestational weeks are treated in a respectful way, either by treating the foetus as biological material or by reducing it to a cemetery memorial. We would strongly stress that the general rule is for the woman to decide for herself which treatment of abortion material to be chosen. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party and the Advance Party stress, through their comments, that a clear distinction must be made with regard to the treatment of abortion material before and after the 12th week of pregnancy. The working party stresses that the guidelines for the treatment of abortion material must be in line with the graduations in the Abortion Discontinuation Act, so that abortion material is treated as biological material before the 12th week of pregnancy. This means that the woman should not be given the right and option to choose the form of handling before the 12th week of pregnancy, either in the case of spontaneous abortion or in the case of desired abortions. Just because this question is so personal and private, the choice of the woman must be decisive and must be the general rule for the management of abortion material until the end of the 22nd week of pregnancy. We have freedom of choice in most areas of life. In the health care community, we can choose a doctor. We have had free hospital choice and not least self-determined abortion before the 12th week of pregnancy. It must be obvious that women should also have the right to determine the form of handling in the case of abortion material. We don't know how many people want to take advantage of the possibility to deviate from the general rule and want a reduction in memory until the end of the 12th week of pregnancy. But that's not the number that's the point. The main point is that the woman herself should be able to choose the form of handling that feels right for her. It is a paradox that the Labour Party and the Advance Party believe that women should have the right to self-determined abortion, but not the right to decide how abortion material should be handled. I believe that is evidence of a lack of insight and respect for the individual woman and her choices. They mix abortion law, information and women's right to choose. They want to deprive women of a personal choice in a very personal matter. It's eye-catching and incomprehensible. An abortion, whether spontaneous or coveted before the end of the 22nd week of pregnancy, is too many women associated with a sense of loss and grief. It's a natural reaction, and it's clearly described in the scientific literature. It is also my experience as a midwife over 20 years and through my meetings with hundreds of women who have been abortion seekers or have had spontaneous abortions both before and after 12 weeks. Grief is a reaction we can't automatically choose away with reason. It's going on a deeper plane. If the treatment of grief is prevented, it can occur in many ways, including: in the case of depression. Therefore, the first step in the grieving process is to relate to what has happened. Women do that in different ways, precisely because we're different. For some, it feels natural and right that the hospital should handle the matter by treating the foetus as biological material. For others, reduction in memory will be what feels best, even before the 12th week of pregnancy. In some women, grief is redeemed only after many years, often in connection with a new pregnancy. The reactions and possibly feelings of loss and grief depend on the individual woman, the circumstances surrounding the termination of pregnancy, the reaction of the child patient, support in the community and not least the attitudes of society. This woman's knowledge that has become part of me over the years has taught me that only the woman herself knows what's best for her, and that only she can make this choice. Women who, after an abortion, spontaneously or greedily, want a reduction in memory shall have the opportunity to do so. Equally, of course, it should be for women who want the second option to be respected for their choice. This isn't about jus, it's about respecting emotions and life's views. The 12-week abortion limit is not a biological limit, but a legal limit in a humane and pragmatic law. As legislators, we have decided that the woman should decide for herself whether to discontinue or continue pregnancy. But life is not the same as law. There are many emotional and existential conditions outside the paragraphs of the law. The abortion law is a compromise based on the very special dependency that exists between the foetus and the woman. It is the consideration of the fetus on the one hand and the consideration of the woman on the other hand that constitutes the dilemma that many people experience. A decision to interrupt pregnancy is incompatible with absolute legal protection of the foetus. There has to be a choice. In the abortion law, the woman is given this choice until the end of the 12th week of pregnancy. So the fetus has a graduated protection. Today's abortion law can be interpreted as meaning that after 12 weeks the fetus is assigned a human dignity in the sense that it is a party to the matter. If the woman wishes to have an abortion after 12 weeks, it is necessary to leave the decision a note. The fetus has been given, although it still depends on the woman to survive, an independent legal protection. Right-wingers believe that if the pregnancy has lasted less than 12 weeks, the foetus shall be treated according to biological material guidelines, if the woman does not indicate that she wishes to use the amnesia. When the pregnancy has lasted more than 12 weeks, the woman shall be presented with the possible alternatives in a neutral and respectful manner and shall be asked to take a decision or to choose the form of handling. Such a practice means that we will ensure respectable treatment of the woman and the foetus. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party will uphold the woman's right to an independent election and a respectful treatment of the fetus and the woman. We have, through our remarks, given the Government clear leadership in the preparation of guidelines. We believe that this is sufficient, and that there is no reason to get the matter back to Stortinget. We believe in the purpose of Document No. 8:96 for 1997-98 is fulfilled, and on behalf of the minority from the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Centre I propose that the matter be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e114	Sonja Irene Sjøli has taken up the suggestion she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e119	When a woman makes the heavy choice to ask for abortion by the 12th week of pregnancy, she does so with the certainty that she has a legal right to self-determined abortion before the 12th week of pregnancy, and that there is a classified protection under the law. And she does it in confidence that there's a big difference between the abortion material taken in the 6th or 7th weeks, and a developed fetus in the 12th, 13th or 16th weeks. If we put in a rule that this woman should choose, or be asked to choose, whether she wants to put the abortion material on a memorial or in a grave, don't we indicate that what she is actually doing is committing childbirth? Just suggesting that abortions or abortions from before 12 weeks are to be buried means that you want to equate an early abortion carried out within the framework of the law with a stillborn child or a latent. I will ask the representative Sonja Sjøli: Isn't this to impose an even greater burden on women in an unhappy situation through guilt and anxiety, and almost suggest that she should feel sorrow and regret?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e128	The answer to the representative Nybakk's question is no. As I have said, my experience is that it is not guilt or shame that is the problem for women. No, they actually have a real sense of sorrow and loss, and we'll take this into account. It is not a matter of asking them before the 12th week, I think I underlined it quite clearly. They're going to get neutral information about the possibilities they have, and they're going to make what they feel is right for them, based on the situation they're in. It is completely unmistakable for me and my party that we should go in and decide what the woman should choose.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e135	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e138	A majority of the Social Committee is in favour of the Government promoting a case for the Storting to allow the Storting to discuss the political basis for the development of guidelines for the treatment of abortion material. The need for clarifying treatment in Stortinget arose after a project group in the State Health Authority proposed that all abortions, abortion material and all foetal tissues should be placed in a memory room in the cemetery without the consent of the woman. The proposers consider it important to intervene, so that the Storting can clarify in a principle way how the abortion material is to be treated. We are committed to reconciling the dignity of treatment of aborted foetuses with respect to women, so that treatment of abortion material, especially from before 12 weeks, does not become an additional burden for those who choose provocative abortion. Graduation in the law must be carried out in such a way that one does not sidestep abortion material from self-determined abortions before 12 weeks with stillborn children or older foetuses. Since the Stortinget has not discussed this, it is important that the Government prepare a basis for discussing this matter. The Equality Ombudsman points out in a letter that a number of state bodies have not been involved in the hearing. This has been pointed out by the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party in their comments, and we assume that these bodies mentioned in the Ombudsman's letter will also be given the opportunity to comment before the Ministry develops the guidelines. We are concerned that the basis for the development of the guidelines is as broad as possible. The rapporteurs believe that the basis should be discussed in the Stortinget, and the majority support this.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e151	With a little understanding in advance, Stortinget could have been saved for the matter we have to deal with today. Let me start by saying, to avoid misunderstandings in what I shall say later, that I am opposed to the current abortion law. However, I am humble enough to admit that I personally have no proposal to replace the current law in this area, and we need a law. Like many others, I was quite upset by the first proposal of a project group in the State Health Authority, which proposed that all abortions, abortions and foetal tissues should be placed in a memorial or a cemetery, regardless of the woman's consent or wish. Unfortunately, I cannot escape the idea that parts of the resistance to the current abortion law in their fight have seen fit to link the custody of abortion material to the funeral arrangement and the reduction of abortions in the memorial groves or in the cemetery. Such a means of fighting to reduce the number of abortions I have with respect to report little sense of. At my discretion, there must be a large additional burden on a woman who is going to make the difficult choice of abortion, also having to decide whether or not to apply the abortion material. In such a situation, everyone must understand that the associations associated with the burial of a dead individual can be highly psychologically stressful. As far as I know Norwegian hospital environments, I would say that all Norwegian hospitals treat abortion material both by provoking abortion and spontaneous abortion in a very respectful way. As far as I know, the hospitals treat abortion material from before and after the 12th week of pregnancy differently, respectively as biological material or in the case of an anonymous burial site. We in the Progress Party believe that guidelines should now be drawn up to address the issue of reduction in memory groves or cemeteries, a distinction must be made between before and after the 12th week of pregnancy. This is not least for purely practical reasons, since it would be associated with practical problems for hospitals to bring abortion material from before 12 weeks of pregnancy. However, I am not going to go into concrete terms here as to what these practical problems must be. In St. prp. No 1 for 1998-99 on page 182 it appears that the Ministry has substantially amended the proposed guidelines first submitted by the project group of State Health Supervisors. Following the change of the department, abortion before the 12th week of pregnancy will be reduced in the cemetery/remembrance if the woman so wishes. If not, follow the guidelines for biological material. It is assumed that the woman will be informed. Furthermore, the proposition states that if the pregnancy has occurred for more than 12 weeks, the woman is presented with the current alternative and is asked to decide on and choose the form of handling. The Progress Party does not agree that the woman should be required to answer after the 12th week of pregnancy, but we agree that if, after a neutral information, the woman herself takes the initiative to reduce her memory or tomb, this should, of course, be respected. The Party considers that abortion material should normally be treated in accordance with procedures for biological material prior to the 12th week of pregnancy. Unlike the minority, the Progress Party finds, also in the light of what is stated in St.prp. No 1, that there is a need to refer the matter to Stortinget. The Progress Party would then like to see the issue of the use of foetal tissues for treatment and research discussed in a proposal for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e174	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e177	As I think most people are familiar with, I am a follower of today's abortion law and have defended it and wished it since before it saw the light of day. On this basis, I am surprised that the committee leader believes this matter is appropriate to make it appear that the opponents of today's law would have substituting motives for handling abortion material and what happens to aborted foetuses. I'm reacting to trying to attach some unfine points of view to each other, that you really mean something other than what you say. As a defender and a follower of today's abortion law, it has been important to me that the woman have the right to decide what is going to happen. The woman shall have an independent right to answer the question before 12 weeks, but the feelings of the woman shall always be respected whether you agree or disagree. I think it's important that we take ourselves inward, no matter what we may think, that some women, as Marit Nybakk said in a line, feel shame – other women, as Sonja Sjølie said, feel grief. Both reactions are equally relevant. Both reactions deserve respect. The fact that the majority here today will actually deprive the women who feel that they will reduce the abortion material in a mindset, the possibility that they do not respect the feelings of women after a provoked abortion, I react very strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e185	Here, there's no question of respecting the woman's feelings, for the sake of others' feelings as well. My point and my commitment to this matter is that I will save the woman for an extra burden. Whether you are a subject of abortion or not, it must be agreed that if, in the context of the choice between having an abortion or not having it presented, an abortion material can be reduced to a grave site, she will associate it with her having taken a life. I cannot, with my best will, understand it differently. And I honestly don't think, although I'm an opponent of the law, that we're going to put this mental burden on the woman that it obviously has to be.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e190	It's actually a matter of respecting each woman's feelings. That's exactly what this is all about. There's someone who can't. It may not surprise me so much that they are among the real opponents of the abortion law, but it surprises me even more that they are in the Workers' Party and among those who defend the abortion law. But no matter what view you have of the abortion law, I believe that the individual woman must be respected for what is her feelings, and that she should have the full right to decide what is going to happen after an abortion. Other positions really mean that you don't trust women. In fact, they have been mistrusted that they are able to deal with the emotional situation in which an abortion brings them up. I find it a pity to hear in 1998 that women are not believed to be able to relate to abortion or what will happen to the abortion later. The whole development since we had a self-determined abortion has actually shown that women take seriously and are able to handle the responsibilities they have been given. I am also quite sure that they will be able to handle the choice they have regarding what is going to happen to the aborted fetus.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e195	Let me repeat one more time that we should, of course, respect the woman's wishes. No matter what guidelines we may have at the end, I can't imagine that the hospital or treatment site will refuse the woman, if she takes the initiative, to bring the abortion material to a memory store even before 12 weeks. That's not the problem. The problem from my point of view is the extra load we can apply to the woman in such a situation, as the guidelines are currently designed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e200	That's the last Alvheim now said that made me respond. Alvheim itself is a health worker. He said he can't imagine that any hospital would refuse etc. But is it not our responsibility to establish clear and unambiguous guidelines that give hospitals and the community a responsibility here to comply with the wishes that may be, based on different needs and attitudes?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e205	I guess that doesn't work, no matter how many questions I get and answers I give. The point from my point of view is, of course, that women should be respected, but I don't want to be involved in imposing on these women such a difficult choice, an extra burden, as set out in the preliminary guidelines. I can't say that, even though I never get so many more questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e210	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e213	The rapporteur has given a proper review of the history of this matter. It is based on decisions taken in connection with the notification of St.meld. No 16 for 1995-96 on the experience of the law on abortion. In this context, a need for guidance on the management of aborted foetuses or tissues was identified. It was pointed out that there were different practices in the various hospitals. Health professionals have missed guidelines they can relate to. Abortion affects many people. It must be taken into account that in an abortion situation there are different medical, practical, ethical and emotional aspects. I think it is positive to note that the Social Committee, in its position, made it clear at the time that the guidelines to be developed by the State Health Authority had to show respect for and equal treatment of the abortion material. Under the leadership of the former Labour Party Council, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health started work to follow up what the Stortinget had asked for. The national health authorities established an external sample which produced a draft guidelines which were sent at the hearing. It's a little strange that someone got a big debate before the Health Authority and the department had concluded. Document No. of the day Eight proposals comment more on the work of the project group than on the proposal for guidelines. These are not identical. The Minister of Health of the day saw to it that the consultation period was extended so that everyone could express their views. The matter has been dealt with in a thorough and good manner. Normally, Stortinget should not treat guidelines. I will give tribute to the Minister of Health who has nevertheless presented these to the Stortinget in St.prp. No 1 for 1998-99. It is hereby established that the guidelines shall apply both in the case of spontaneous abortions and in the case of provocative abortions. The document states that the guidelines are based on the principles of today’s Abortion Act. The guidelines shall be, as the name implies, indicative but not binding. The Christian People's Party believes that the Minister of Health has all complied with Stortinget's wishes, and is therefore in favour of Document No. 8:96 for 1997-98 is annexed to the Protocol. I would like to make a comment to the Workers' Party that wants abortion material before 12 weeks to be treated in the same way as other biological material in hospitals, without allowing the woman to choose whether she wants to have the foetus reduced on a burial ground. The Labour Party often talks about women's rights and women's freedom of choice. Why has she lost this freedom of choice early in pregnancy? Many women have a sad reaction after an abortion, whether spontaneous or provoked. I am convinced that many of these would have wanted a memory. The World Health Organisation sets the limit between abortion and stillbirth to 22 completed gestational weeks. The guidelines presented are in line with this. This week, a consensus conference is being held in Oslo on ‘Premature Child Treatment Limits’. Today it is common to treat children born after 23 or 24 weeks of pregnancy. In the newspaper on Tuesday, Professor Stein Erik Ulund writes: ‘There is extensive evidence that at least half of these children become completely healthy both physically and mentally.’ I think this puts our debate today in a broader perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e240	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e243	I think it's important to clarify a misunderstanding that I've heard has been repeated quite many times here in the hall. It is said that the Stortinget asked that you return to the treatment of abortions foetuses, but that is not the case. In St.meld. in point 16 for 1995-96, there is only a small sentence, and it applies to the use of cells and tissues for research purposes. That's why the department did it, not in line with what the Stortinget has been signaling. I would like to ask the representative Woie Duesund: Where in the setting is it that Stortinget asked that a committee assess the question we are now dealing with?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e248	It is true, as the representative Eye said, that feedback was requested in relation to foetuses in connection with research. But that too is abortion material. And as I understand it, it was previously concluded that transplants of organs from the deceased are to be carried out with respect, and in this context it was said that abortion material is also to be treated with respect and equivalent treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e253	I think it is important first to clarify the mandate of the Ministry of Health and Health to initiate the preparation of guidelines for the treatment of abortion material. So it's not like the representative is now trying again, that the Storting asked for it at any time or in any setting. In St.meld.nr.16 for 1995-96 page 114, there is one sentence, as Signe Øye said. That sentence says nothing about the treatment of abortion material when it comes to digging or putting something into memory. It deals exclusively with questions of the use of foetal material in research. It's in the context that it says, and it's in the section that deals with research on abortion material. It means that there has been no great mandate for this. That is why the majority of the social committee in this case is now asking for these guidelines to be sent to the Stortinget. There is also the background for the introduction of a Document No. 8 proposals to assess the policy basis for developing guidelines on the treatment of abortion material. So far, this has been treated with reason and with good sense and discretion in most hospitals. This means that, after 12 weeks of pregnancy, foetuses have largely been placed in memory or offered burial, while abortion material before 12 weeks of pregnancy is largely treated as other biological waste.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e263	It might be true, as Marit Nybakk says, that Stortinget didn't ask for it. But what's right is that the Department of the Workers' Party said that there was a need for guidelines that ensure respectable and equal handling of all abortion material, both by spontaneous and provocative abortions and by intact and intact fetuses.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e268	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e271	This is a debate on, among other things, It is also a debate on ethical attitudes and practical follow-up from ethical viewpoints. In the case of a large-scale mandate or not for the creation of a project group, which has now been part of the line change, one can conclude that the creation of a project group has actually been carried out by a trade union council from the Workers' Party, so that it is at least clear. And then we get from other things to discuss whether the mandate was clear or not. I will give tribute to the case rapporteur for the thorough handling and presentation of this matter. I think it is important to stress that the starting point must be respectful and dignified treatment of abortion material, and that biological material in general also requires respectful and dignified treatment. We join an overall committee that says that there may be a need to discuss in detail the basis for the development of guidelines for the treatment of abortion material, but one also sees the need for a general debate on the treatment of biological material. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Right, we have a comment in the setting where we say that we see what the Government writes in St. prp. No 1 in the context of the year's budget, is a good starting point for the establishment of guidelines. We also join and base the World Health Organisation's definition of setting limits between abortion and stillbirth, and how this material should be handled further. Reference is made to the grading in the Abortion Act, and that is one of the starting points for us and the ethical handling of aborted material. I think it's a little strange starting point, because the fight for today's abortion law just went on freedom of choice for the woman, and self-determined abortion was the battle for the independent election. But then you don't have to have a self-determined and independent choice about the treatment of abortion material. What I think is becoming a paradox in this debate. Another thing is that there are different types of abortions, such as: The rapporteur was present. It's spontaneous abortions and coveted abortions. Not all abortions before the 12th week of pregnancy are desired abortions, and then there must be at least greater possibilities for differentiation in choices than some seem to add up to here. It is said that a public enquiry into this choice can impose additional burdens on the woman. But in this case, we have to discuss the ethical issues and do as properly as possible, at least we have to make sure that the public here takes responsibility for the woman being informed about what her rights are. I think that, among other things, Annelise Höegh earlier thought that it is possible that in a phase here you have women who feel guilt and regret. But there are also many women who feel grief and loss. And then it has to be important that we get guidelines, so that we can try to mitigate these feelings as much as possible. It is also important, with clear guidelines, for those who are responsible for the duties and duties of society here, also in relation to both the treatment of aborted material and other biological material. So I hope we can agree that this is a useful starting point for a debate in which we should have the aim: respectful and dignified treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e286	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e289	Part of the post of the representative of Luttvold, I understood that he really agreed that the matter should be brought back to Stortingen. But that's not what I wanted to ask. I have a specific question. In St. prp. No 1, referred to here from the minority, it actually says that after the 12th week of pregnancy, the woman should be presented with the alternatives in question and asked to give an answer. Does the representative, or does he not agree, agree with this?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e296	First of all, I find that one in St.prp. No 1 distinguishes between before and after the 12th week of pregnancy, as some others do here. But I think it is a point that the woman should at least be able to confirm that she has been asked the question. I'm not sure it should be a check, I don't think so. This deserves another treatment. But I think it is important that at least you have a system that gives feedback from the woman that she has been informed of her choices.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e301	I listened carefully to the comments of the representative. As I perceive the representative, he simply proposes a modified condition for the entire law of self-determination by suggesting to the woman in as ethically sound a form as possible, as he expressed it, when she comes and asks for self-determined abortion within the limits of the law, that is to say that she can choose whether or not to bury the foetus. Isn't there a lot of ways to move the law and change the whole premise of the self-determined abortion law? Is it not just one logical, political and legal way to do this, namely to base the law on the treatment of foetal material, whether it is spontaneous abortions after 12 weeks or provocative abortions before 12 weeks? Isn't it just one way to solve this without indicating that the woman actually comes and asks for is a kind of killing of children?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e306	I am not sure if I fully understood the logic of the questioner's problem. But I think it must be important that you have a similar procedure, at least that you also catch those who have a non-desired abortion before the 12th week of pregnancy so that they are also involved in the evaluation, and that you have a neutral and respectful way of going forward here. And I can't see the same consequences of this as the representative Nybakk, in any way. There are several alternatives that lie in here: digging, amnesia and also the possibility of this material being handled as biological material. That should be the choice in this which is the important thing, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e311	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e314	This is a difficult matter to debate because it arouses many emotions. In particular, the matter will be complicated if you include a new form of abortion debate in this question. There can be no doubt about the position of the Socialist Left in relation to the law of self-determined abortion. SV has supported it all the time and, of course, has no desire to change the law. But I think, to the extent that the question of how to treat abortion material, also to a question of whether it should affect the abortion law, the debate is complicated in a completely unnecessary way. For the SV, it is important that the woman’s right to choose should also apply to the aborted material, whether from a spontaneous or a desired abortion. It should not be forgotten that in large studies of pregnant women who at some point are abortions, a majority of abortions will take the form of early births and spontaneous abortions. I'm going to believe that for all, most of the women who abortion at such an early stage that you almost have not reached a sense of pregnancy, the problem with regard to the graveyard or memory will be out of date. Of course, you can problematize it, as some people do, but it will be inappropriate, especially in relation to real information about the development of a pregnancy and the stage of development of that pregnancy. But you see that some women have had a burning desire to get pregnant, it becomes and then abortions spontaneously, for example after ten weeks. Maybe they've been to ultrasound after 11 weeks, and they've seen the embryo that's evolved, and they've gotten such a relationship to the fact that they actually want it not to be treated as biological material, but to be treated in other ways. I think it makes no sense that, if that is what you want, you should say no and then refer to the abortion law. I agree with many of the comments here, namely that it is about the woman's independent choice. What is essentially a question here is in what form the information is given. It is the same today that at the request of abortion, information is given to women and is obliged to be given. The primary physician shall inform of the nature of the procedure and any complications, such as the occurrence of a certain, albeit small, risk of sterility. And just as this information is to be provided, it is entirely possible to imagine that at the time an abortion is desired, one could distribute an information brochure that is very neutral in form, that describes a pregnancy and the development of a pregnancy, and that there is an alternative possibility that the abortion material is treated as biological material. If there is a willingness to put value-neutral formulations at the bottom – which should also be properly informed – it is fully possible to do so in the light of the views of the Socialist Left. As several speakers have been here, I must also say that I am surprised at the approach of both the Labour Party and the Advance Party to this issue because one moves away from the woman's right to choose and has a kind of attitude on behalf of the woman without the woman herself being involved in and deciding. It's an approach that SV finds unlucky. The Socialist Left promotes its own proposal here, which is a minority proposal, where we say that the general rule is that all abortion material should be treated as biological material until the end of the 22nd week of pregnancy. I see that the use of words can be unfortunate, and it is at all difficult to find the correct use of words, because I understand that mentioning a fetus of 22 weeks as a biological material arouses feelings among some. So here you have to look for words and expressions that can be hard to find. We then suggest that the general rule must be that all abortion material is treated as biological material if the woman herself has no other desire. If that proposal were to fall, and that would be the case, we would, in turn, support the Committee's recommendation that the Storting should be brought before the House for consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e325	Sir. Ballo has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e331	It is correct and important that we receive a political treatment for the management of aborted foetuses, as the setting adds, as we have not dealt with this in connection with St.meld. No 16th@item: That someone is trying every opportunity to change today's abortion permit shows what has happened here in this case. And SV agrees with the Workers' Party on today's abortion law, and does not want a new debate. Therefore, it is important to uphold the right of self-determination of up to 12 weeks, and not to rock it. However, in this case concerning the treatment of abortion material, SV has a proposal asking the Government to draw up guidelines that give the woman the right to reduce the foetus to the graveyard until the 22nd week of pregnancy. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Ballo, that the guidelines should not be based on and consistent with the positions and criteria laid down in the abortion law, among others. with regard to self-determined abortion up to the 12th week of pregnancy, and that there is, and should still be, the difference between the loss of a near-permanent child who is 22 weeks old and the choice of an early-provoked abortion? As regards the example of spontaneous abortion that you mentioned in your article, the Workers' Party agrees, because we also believe that the woman should have the right to choose. But if abortion material before 12 weeks of pregnancy is reduced on a cemetery, is there not a risk that it will lead to more guilt, and that a natural process of mourning will not be completed because the abortion will not be completed in the sense that the fetus has been buried? Has SV considered how to deal with such guidelines after we have now received the new method of abortion, the abortion pill, which is being used in an increasing number of hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e340	The President shall draw attention to the fact that the speech shall be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e343	We're just stressing that this is the woman's choice. I cannot understand the logic of the Workers' Party's argument here at all, because to the extent that the woman herself chooses this – what is the problem? How can this mean putting a woman under a load if that woman chooses it herself? Here there is something about the approach, which is almost dictatorial in its form; the fact that on behalf of the woman who is obviously to be unauthorized, one believes that one is able to assess this better than the woman herself does. That is a pointless approach. In view of the Committee's chairman's concern regarding this issue, I would say that it is clear that if the woman wanted to do so, no hospital would be opposed to her wish. Then you have not understood what this is about. What we are doing is just discussing the guidelines and giving clear guidelines to the hospital so that this should not be left to the coincidences of the individual hospital. Is this so hard? And when it comes to the question of the pill, the problem is not different. There's a bleeding, and you get an abortion as a result of it. If the woman wishes to have the abortion material treated in a special way, it will be possible to meet that desire. It's not worse.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e352	I listened with great interest to Mr Ballo's contribution and noted that the clearest difference in position is the difference between SV and the Workers' Party/Fremskrittspartiet. It's also very interesting. I almost entirely share the reasoning expressed by the representative, Mr Ballo, but, for safety reasons, to clarify the difference in approach, I would like to ask him a question. The speakers of the Labour Party argue that this assembly has the competence, through majority decisions, to determine the nature and status of the so-called biological material. At my discretion, there must be a significant overestimation of the competence of the Norwegian wholesaler, and I would like to ask the representative, Mr Ballo, if he shares that opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e359	It takes a short time to answer yes, and this is how it is done. I agree with what your salary here is saying. But I think that some of the things that characterize this debate are a kind of notion of what happens in the context of abortion interventions, and what kind of approach you have among health professionals, which suggests that you need some kind of adult education in relation to this room. Clearly, with all the other information provided, it is also possible to approach this in an ethically sound manner — provided that the Storting is able to raise its eyes, have an overall perspective on this and, in fact, have confidence that professionals can handle this in an appropriate way. I fully agree with the reasoning on pay, there is nothing more to say about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e366	No one else has asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e369	Guidance is needed for the management of this biological material. There are currently different practices in our hospitals, and health professionals in particular need guidance. Finding respectful and practical solutions has been the leading thing. In this way, I find the Minister of Health's proposal in the budget satisfactory. It is difficult to see that it is offensive for women to decide which end-treatment should be given to the aborted foetus. Most people will at all costs have many thoughts about this. This was also Sonja Själi inside her post, and I agree with her in most of what she said. Now, however, a number of people want things to come back to Stortinget for further processing. What I could then wish for was that this came back together with the other questions that need to be discussed and that are in the cold. I am thinking about the final treatment of all biological waste and the use of biological waste before final treatment. This box allows you to search and paste cells and tissues. There are many difficult and important questions in this area. Not least, it is important that we get guidelines like those working in this field that are perceived as practically good and ethical. One of these questions relates to the purchase and sale of foetal tissues. We know that research groups have been offered by the international company for the purchase of cell cultures from spontaneous and therapeutic abortions. This may indicate that there is a market for this abroad — perhaps in developing countries. How can we in Norway accept commercialisation that may place women in poor countries against economic choices? There are a lot of questions, ethical choices, that we have to decide about, and I want when a multiple now wants this case back, that one sees it in conjunction with other important issues that are in the mood.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e383	The law gives the woman the statutory right to self-determined abortion by the end of the 12th week of pregnancy. There's also an SV in agreement, as Ballo has expressed here from the pulpit. As far as I have understood, SV is also initially in agreement with the classified foetal protection that is the starting point of the law – despite Ballo's last reply. I have also realized that there is disagreement in the Swedish Government about the specific matter being dealt with here – and we will see that more clearly when it comes back to Stortinget – considering that Ågot Valle has both expressed other views on the media and is a co-rapporteur for Document No. The 8th proposal. The limit of twelve weeks has been attacked from both sides, I think it's also right to underline, but the Storting has decided by every crossroads to hold on to it, both for medical, ethical and social reasons. When a spring 1998 group of health inspectors presented proposals for guidelines for the treatment of abortion material, the proposal generated strong political responses, as has been said here earlier. In fact, the proposal represented an equalization of abortion material from early provoking abortions and foetuses from senaborts and stillbirths. The proposal went on at that time, for example: to place all the material of abortion and foetal tissue in memory groves. In addition, the group’s proposal tended to the macabre when it proposed that ‘if there is doubt as to the existence of foetuses or where the diagnosis is uncertain, tissues must first be examined to establish the existence of an abortion before the application of these guidelines’. In the autumn’s budget proposal, the Minister of Health proposes guidelines for the woman to choose how to handle the foetus or foetus. The proposal still requires that abortion material be available for memory before 12 weeks. In our view, both of these proposals are contrary to and inconsistent with the law. We believe that the legal and political premises for the treatment of abortion material must be precisely the law of self-determined abortion. Burying all abortion material at any time in pregnancy would be an unnecessary burden for women who make the heavy choice to ask for abortion within the framework of the law. If a hospital asks a woman who is going to take provoking abortion, if she wants to put the material that is being taken down in a memorial park – I want to repeat what I said in a reply – then it actually indicates that the hospital is killing her, that she is taking life. The very existence of the memory mode with pre-twelfth week abortion material could give women feelings of guilt, anxiety and remorse. If that is the intention, I also understand why this is at all for debate. When we deal with the Norwegian abortion law, we should have gone the longest way through that particular stage. The fact that the proposals — both the first and the revised — are unhygienic and not practicable without reorganisations or additional resources makes this issue even more pointless with the current challenges in the health sector. The majority voted in the previous period on a constitutional bill on the right to life from the time of conception – because it broke with the law of self-determined abortion, and because it is an impossibility. What about early spontaneous abortions? They happen at home. What about the abortion pill? What about pregnancy outside the womb? What about spiral as a method of contraception? The spiral is known not to prevent fertilisation. When it goes wrong late in a pregnancy, or a woman after a heavy decision takes a latex because of defects in the fetus, we all believe – at least all except SV – that we should both give her and the fetus the respect they deserve, and offer burial of the foetus. But let's base the framework of the law and set the limit of twelve weeks. It is the only logical and legally sustainable proposal in this matter. Against this background, the Stortinget today asks for the proposal for guidelines for the treatment of abortion material to be sent to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e406	The question of how to handle aborted foetuses is highly controversial. It is documented both by the proposal that the Stortinget is discussing today and by the vote. The then government appointed a working group in 1993 to investigate the use of cells and tissues from aborted foetuses. The working group defined an abortion as cells and tissues from a foetus, possibly an intact foetus. It pointed out that at present there are no provisions on how hospitals should handle abortions or their tissues, that abortions are handled in very different ways, and considered that the way in which an aborted foetus, or parts thereof, is handled should be given attention. This situation affected not only abortions but also spontaneous abortions, in the view of the working group. The working group stressed the need to ensure worthwhile procedures both for the treatment of aborted foetuses and for the treatment of tissues. The position of the working group was published in NOU 1994:22, which was at wide consultation. In St. Report. No 16 for 1995-96, On the experience of the law on abortion, etc., the then Labour Party Government, and Health Minister Werner Christie, as regards the management of aborted foetuses, concluded: ‘In transplants of organs from the deceased, this is carried out with respect for the deceased. Although an abortion will not be intact, the abortion material must also be treated in a respectful and similar manner when taking out foetal cells. There are currently no rules on how to deal with such material. State Health Supervisors will develop guidelines for this.’ Int. S. No 231 for 1995-96 by the Social Committee, reference is made to the development by the State Health Authority of guidelines for the respectful and equal treatment of abortion material. The Committee did not comment on this point. I record in the debate that there are differing views on how these wordings should be understood. For its part, the Ministry was not in doubt, and in the mission of the Ministry by letter of 17 September 1996 under the then Minister of Health Gudmund Hernes' "the State Health Authority, it is just referred to that report. I am registering the criticism that has been raised against this being done. The criticism has been raised by the representatives of the Labour Party in this Chamber, and it is a criticism of the Labour Party's own government and of the then Minister of Health Gudmund Hernes, who was responsible for the mission given to the State Health Authority in 1996. For my own part, I have registered Storting's wish to have these questions submitted, and I have complied with them in St. prp. No 1 for 1998-99. I'll come back to the further follow-up of this. The need for consistent practice in the management of aborted foetuses has also been demonstrated through the Ministry's own study. It was known in the autumn of 1997 that a hospital should have sent for several years to a churchyard a list of women who had been abortioned. In the light of this case, in the same year the Ministry launched a survey at the country's hospital on the practice of hospitals in dealing with the burial of foetuses and of still-born and aborted foetuses. 41 hospitals responded, and it is clear from the answers that most people destroy abortion material from abortion before the 12th week of pregnancy. However, in the case of abortions, spontaneous abortions and stillbirths after the 12th week of pregnancy, practice is very diverse in terms of both the destruction, the organisation of burials, the authorization of the mother, the age of the foetus for possible burial, the use of burial or cremation, the use of common graves, separate graves or family tombs, and the practice of social security services to cover funeral expenses and procedures for the identification of foetuses. The Committee wishes, in its position, to give the Storting the opportunity to discuss the policy basis for the development of guidelines. I understand. I have not only shown understanding, but also actively followed this up in St.prp. No 1 for 1998-99. And of course, when the majority of the committee wants a broader basis for further discussion through a matter for the Stortinget, I will follow it up in a suitable form. It goes without saying that such guidelines must be based on existing legislation regardless of what each of us might think of it. I think it is natural that the principle of self-determination should be applied when it comes to handling in this area. Regardless of the design, the guidelines must provide a practice that treats the woman with respect and does not increase the burden in an already demanding situation. At the same time, provision must be made for schemes which contribute to the respectful treatment of aborted foetuses. Based on this debate and on its best judgement, the government will promote a case for the Storting so that there will be a new opportunity to discuss the policy basis for the development of guidelines for the management of aborted foetuses.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e430	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e434	I understand that the Council of State finds it opportune to try to make it look as if the Workers' Party and the Workers' Party's representatives are criticising our two former state councils. We don't. The initiative to develop guidelines, not least on the basis of the examples mentioned by the Council of State, is not criticised. But what we have been criticising is that it is claimed that the Storting has taken a decision on or given a mandate to what kind of guidelines are to be developed, or what they should look like and on what basis, and secondly, of course, it is the content of both the first proposal and what the Council of State has then agreed to, and to which it was referred in St. prp. No 1st@item: It is also that we have not been given the opportunity to discuss neither the basis for drafting nor the concrete guidelines of the Stortinget. This is a difficult thing, it touches emotions, it's a matter of where the abortion law is very strongly involved. And on that basis, we want this case to be presented to the Stortinget for final treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e439	I am somewhat surprised that Marit Nybakk is now drawing on the criticism that it is reasonable to read in the vote on the very initiative for these guidelines to be developed. I quote from the setting page 2, the notes from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, where it says: ‘No guidance has been given by Stortinget to develop guidelines for the management of aborted foetuses from provocative abortions.’ And I have to insist that the initiative taken to develop such guidelines took the ministry on the basis of the big message that the government Harlem Brundtland made, and with clear reference to the guidelines drawn up in the big news.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e451	I'm actually in doubt about what it is the Council of State is now trying to do. A majority of the Committee – The Labour Party, the Advance Party and the SV – have clearly stated in the committee setting that no authority has been given by the Stortingen to develop these guidelines. No one criticises that the Ministry has taken the initiative to develop guidelines. What is then criticised is that the basis for these has not been presented to the Storting and that the guidelines have not been presented to the Storing. We maintain, of course, that this has not been dealt with in Stortinget, and I would also like to ask the Council of State Højbråten when this matter should have been dealt with in Stortinget. I think he'll get an overall answer from, among other things. The representatives of the Workers' Party in the Social Committee during the previous major period that no discussion of these guidelines or the basis for such guidelines has taken place at any time.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e458	I do not know how far we are going to conduct this debate, but there is no doubt that the then government, which took the initiative to develop these guidelines and which gave the mission to the State Health Authority, referred to St.meld. No 16 for 1995-96, page 114, and asked the Health Inspectorate to do this job. And if it's the case that it wasn't permitted by Stortinges to draw up such guidelines, I have come to believe that it was critical. But if it's not critical, it's not my point to get it out. The point from my side is that I have taken the signals for my part – I have provided the Stortinget with a basis for taking a political discussion on the basis of guidelines in this area. I have not established the guidelines before this debate or before the discussion of St.prp. No 1, just to give the Storting that opportunity. So, to the extent that criticism has been raised – and I have heard it clearly in this debate – you are prepared to cast off if you raise the criticism against this Council of States.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e463	I listened with great interest to the statements of the Council of State and was reasonably pleased with what was said, and what was suggested about what would happen. I personally do not think there is any reason to criticise the Council of State or the Government in this matter so far. I noticed in particular that the Council of State said that he would like to put forward a new case for Stortinget, and pointed out that the guidelines that would be proposed should not, as far as possible, be burdensome on the woman or come as an additional burden. And for my part, I can say that if the last part of the comment in St.prp. No 1 had been gone, i.e. to demand an answer after the 12th week of pregnancy, it would have been okay for me, and I would have belonged to the minority in the case. What is important is to provide neutral information, and that the woman can respond or take a stand on her own initiative, without requiring answers to be given before the abortion.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e468	I want to confirm that the intention in working on these issues has just been to ensure a practice that treats the woman with respect and does not increase the burden in an already demanding situation, and that at the same time adds to schemes that contribute to the respectful treatment of aborted foetuses. That is my intention, no matter what has been said about the subversive motives in this debate. I have noticed on my side the signals that the representative Alvheim now gave.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e475	The cord shift is over. The following representatives shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e480	There is clearly a majority in favour of the Storting getting this matter back, and there is good reason to hope that the clarifications that have taken place in this debate could be continued further in a new debate, and that the rather disruptive mixes of like and unlike those that have marked this debate, in particular by the speakers of the Labour Party. Marit Nybakk said that the only logical and ethical possibility was to put the distinction into the current abortion law at week 12. Now, as far as I have understood, a few years ago, the Workers' Party was close to taking the position that it wanted to change the current law, so that the limit was set at week 18. Would it then have been that the only logical and ethical possibility had been to base that distinction? The whole reasoning rests in my view on a rather simple short-circuit, namely that the position of the legal — who has the decision-making competence to end a pregnancy — is also a position on biological issues, on ethical issues and on aesthetic issues. No, of course not. It must be possible to maintain the minimum degree of clarity that one is able to keep these issues apart. It is also a very basic mix of thoughts, possibly also a lack of information, when you simply mix digging and reducing abortion material in the soil. There is no difference in principle as to whether the biological material is destroyed by a combustion process or destroyed by its laying in the soil. It has nothing to do with digging ceremonies at all. I have to say that I think it would increase respect for the Storting if you next time this is to be debated, avoiding this kind of disruptive mix-up of issues that have nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e492	I feel reason to say that I think that the health minister's handling of this matter has been good and responsive to the wishes of Stortinget. He and the Christian People's Party have obviously gone a long way in facilitating that it would be possible to reach an agreement on how to deal with aborted fetuses. For me, it is obvious that the individual woman herself has to decide what is going to happen after an abortion, and therefore I am still startled by the Workers' Party's speakers here today, who do not seem to respect the fact that women can react differently. I believe that abortion is a serious question for all women. This has been shown by developments since we introduced the law on self-determined abortion. It hasn't, as many fear, led to an increase in the number of abortions. I am convinced that women, whether they feel sorrow, shame, guilt or regret, will be able to relate to all aspects of the consequences of an abortion. And I don't think we're earned – as I feel the Workers' Party is looking for – to misunderstand the serious question it is in any case. I think women will be able to relate to the seriousness of the situation, and that they will be able to take for themselves the consequences of what is going to happen, both in terms of the question of the request for abortion, and in terms of what is going to happen to the foetus after an abortion, whether it is spontaneous or coveted. Based on my fundamental trust in the women's sense of responsibility and judgment, I do not believe it is natural to introduce a distinction before and after 12 weeks in the treatment of the aborted foetus. In this field, I therefore reserve myself against the part of the health minister's proposal that after 12 weeks one should be asked to decide how to handle abortions. For me, a line goes all the way from my opposition to introducing mandatory advice and up to this. For me, it signals that it is uncertain whether the woman is able to make a thorough assessment of this. You almost demand that she go up to the oral exam, to make sure that she has understood what it is she should decide on. I don't feel that necessary. I therefore support the intention of the proposal that SV has made, but I have a reservation against the wording of it, and since we get the matter back, I will not vote for it today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e503	The case rapporteur has given a clear presentation of the main features of this case. The proposal in Document No. 8:96 for 1997-98 is that the Storting should discuss the policy basis for the development of guidelines for the treatment of abortion material. At my discretion, the Minister of Health has already given a clear and sufficient impetus to this, and the debate here today has shown that the basis for this has been there. The Christian People's Party's view of abortion is known and is based on the fact that human life begins at conception. Thus, human dignity also begins at conception, and therefore abortions also require respectful treatment. The development of the foetus from conception is continuous, and as has been mentioned previously, there is no biological basis for any limit at 12 weeks. That limit is purely pragmatic, arbitrary, legal — not biological. The Christian People's Party is known against today's abortion law, but we must of course accept that the State's health oversight in its proposals for guidelines is based on the current law. What surprises me in this debate is that the Workers' Party seems to promote as an essential point that the woman should be free to choose abortion before the 12th week, but she should not be able to choose what will happen to the aborted foetus. It also seems to be a point that she should know the least about the aborted foetus. She should at least not know that this is something that can be put down in a mindset, and, as the representative also pointed out, this is not about any funeral ceremony. It worries me that it seems that there is a point on the part of the Workers' Party in the so-called classified legal protection of foetuses, that, for example, 10-11-week-old fetuses at all have no value at all. You're in here on a strange glide scale, where the consequence is that in a couple of weeks, an age gap in the fetus could lead to a fundamental, fundamental discrimination, and it amazes me. In addition, I believe that the Minister of Health has proposed a straightforward further examination of this matter in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e518	This is a proposal that seeks to get the matter back to Stortinget, and I think it is important, because it is obviously very unclear about what has been said and what has not been said. It has also appeared in the press in advance that there have been different practices in different hospitals, which suggests that we need clear guidelines in line with the provisions of the law. Then I would like to say a little bit about the references made by the Council of State Høybråten and the representative of Duesund. In St. Report. No 16 for 1995-96 On page 114, on page 114, there are currently no rules on how to treat such material, and reference is made to the possibility of using cells and tissues from aborted foetuses for medical research. Furthermore, it is in the Innst. S. No 231 for 1995-96, and also here for the majority, the Labour Party and the Right, stressed that the request for use of foetal tissues should not be linked to the issue of abortion. I think it's so much unclear about this, that it's important to get the matter back to Stortinget, and that these things come out clearly, so that we can deal with this properly and properly.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e530	There are a good number of joint comments from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, and it is clear that, on an independent basis, SV has absolutely reason to consider the statements made by the Labour Party as a rather unequivocal criticism that the Ministry took the initiative in its time to investigate this. At the time, then, Gudmund Hernes was the Minister of Health. For the SV, there is no criticism in this – we only comment that this initiative has been taken, and I think it is commendable that the Ministry in this area, when it is seen that there is a need for clearer guidelines, takes the initiative. But I noticed that Signe Eye from the Workers' Party towards the government parties is calling for the mandate. Where is the mandate, she said, this is not a mandate. And there is a crystal clear criticism of the Minister who in his time took that initiative, namely the then Minister of Health Hernes of the Workers' Party. So one of the hardest criticisms we've witnessed here today has been the Workers' Party's criticism of its own state council. I'm glad that the unreasonable criticism that the Workers' Party is bringing here by its own government council is not followed up by the Stortinget, because you can see that the department must actually have the ability to think for itself, whatever Hernes had in his day. I am therefore pleased that the Workers' Party has not been given an overall boost to give Hernes the smooth layer here.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e537	I feel the need to underline the points made by the representative Ballo. The representative Gravdahl stated that there is a great deal of confusion and that there is a need for clear guidelines. And it should be said that the Workers' Party was grateful both to its own government council Gudmund Hernes and to the current state council because they have taken the initiative that there might be clear guidelines. Let me just add one comment in view of the debate the Stortinget will have at a later stage. There has been a development in recent years that, in my opinion, is joyful in the view of grief and the natural need for people to experience grief and to process grief. It cannot be a task for the legislative assembly to decide when people should be allowed to mourn and when they should not be allowed to mourn, or to invite people to the worst of all solutions in relation to difficult problems in life, namely, to crowd them out and pretend that they do not exist. I would like to ask the Labour Party so strongly that we can think about the new round of discussions on this in the Storting, if that is not what we are in danger of doing through the position the party has taken. You're in danger of being exemplary, and you're in danger of inviting people to choose the worst of all imaginable solutions to difficult life problems, i.e. pretending they don't exist. It has not been very many years since there was a common tradition in Norwegian hospitals that, at the time of stillbirth, the parents were not even allowed to see the dead child, out of misunderstood consideration. At that time, everyone thought that they were doing a favor to their parents. Today, everyone knows that they are at best doing a service to the bear, in the worst case, they are guilty of a crime. And there's no mitigating circumstance that you do it in good sense, rather a sharpener.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e546	I think it's relatively uninteresting who might have put down a sample. What is the point here is that the hearing opinions that have been delivered are so striking, and there have been so strong reactions to the proposals from this group that this is the basis for the Storting to discuss the matter. That is what is at the heart of the matter, and that is why the proposal has been promoted. That's what's the main question here. Now it's been a long debate, but we get a new round, so we have the opportunity to re-enter this. And I expect from this debate that the Council of State has given some important signals in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e553	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 510]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e567	The big business has a lot of principal and far-reaching issues for treatment, and we also have smaller and concrete things that matter to maybe small groups and get people into this community. Nevertheless, the latter matters are also of enormous importance to those involved, and the matter we are dealing with now is such a matter. We have established, and the Government has included in its action plan for disabled people, among other things, that it should be organised so that there are equal opportunities for accessibility and participation for all regardless of their ability to function, and this case is about such a relationship. Those who are the proposers of this document No. The 8 proposal, has stated that those who are deaf or have severe hearing impairments should have equal opportunities to communicate with their closest friends and others they need to contact when they are in a hospital. This has also been facilitated by the Government. through the now promoted disability action plan. I am pleased that there is an overall committee that agrees to this Document No. The 8 proposal is annexed to the protocol, and action is taken here to ensure that the state deals with the hospitals in question with the acquisition of a text-phone for deaf people, so that this need can be met, and that the State takes up its hospitals and gets it in order for those in need of such a text-phone. Today's technology has made it fully possible at an absolutely affordable price to give deaf and severely hearing-impaired people an offer to communicate equally with others, when they are patients at our hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e578	With the suspension of decisions that exist and that are also behind the Advance Party, there is no reason for me to say very much about the matter itself. I am very pleased that a joint social committee understands the importance that deaf people, like others, should also have opportunities to communicate with family and relatives during hospitalisation. It should, of course, be a sun clear right, and such an opportunity should be provided for those deaf people who have to use health care. It is particularly important for any disabled person to be able to live as normal and social as possible in relation to family and community. In this way, a text phone is an important external communication tool for deaf people. Today there are text phones in only six of the country's hospitals, and I do not think that is acceptable. At least the Progress Party believes that text telephone should be available at both the country’s regional hospital and the country’s central hospital. I understand that the department cannot oblige the county to go to the installation of text telephones at its hospitals. However, I am very pleased that the Minister of Health promised to send out a circular to the hospitals only in 1999 requesting the purchase of a transportable text phone. I hope that a circular from the Department will have its effect, so that in a relatively short time, text telephones can be installed in all regional hospitals and central hospitals, as well as at least the state hospitals, for which the Department is responsible, have this in place as early as possible in 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e589	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 510]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e602	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e612	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is proposal No. 1, by Sonja Irene Sjøli, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Right and Center Party: ‘Document No. 8:96 [[1997-98]] And that's proposal No. 2, from Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party: ‘The Government asks the Government to develop guidelines for the treatment of abortion material on the basis that all abortion material is treated according to biological material guidelines until the end of the 22nd week of pregnancy if the woman herself does not express her wish to have the foetus reduced on burial grounds.’ The proposal of the Socialist Left Party is first contested, then alternatively between the Committee's suspension and the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Central Party. Mr Gunnar Ballo has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e627	If the SV's proposal is adopted, we will not see it as necessary that this matter comes back to Stortinget. But if SV's proposal falls, my recommendation is that we subsidize the committee's suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e632	The president assumes that those who need it have noticed this, and we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-26.ana.ud2471e665	There is no record.
