ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e48	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: André Kukkestad and Rikke Lind For the Province of Buskerud: Unni Hennum Lie For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Ottar Kaldhol and Kjell Terje Fevåg For Oslo: Sissel Dagslet For Telemark County: Vivian Knarvik Bugge For Southern Tribute County: Bjørg Brushed For the Westfold province: Karin Lian An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Centre Party Group to the representative Ola D. Glötwold from Monday 30 November until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The representative of thevara, Ida Marie Løvlien, is invited to attend during the period of leave.Ida Marie Løvlien is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Ola D. Glötvold.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e105	Ida Marie Løvlien is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e110	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e115	I allow myself to propose Per Ove Width and Ursula Evje.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e120	Ursula Evje and Per Ove Width are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Ursula Evje and Per Ove Width are unanimously elected as presidents of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e128	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 – 5 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e174	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be held over one day with a total speaking time of 4 hours and 15 minutes, excluding lines and three-minute posts. The number time is divided into groups: the working party 95 minutes, the party 35 minutes, the Christian People's Party 35 minutes, the right 35 minutes, the centre 20 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 20 minutes, the left 10 minutes and the People's Party 5 minutes. The replacement of the lines is proposed as follows: there will be access to five lines of reply following contributions from the main speakers of the parties, parliamentary leaders, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and three lines of response from the other Councils within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e185	It's been a tough budget house. As a leader of the Financial Committee, where the budget has been managed, I would like to say a little about this work. The members of the Financial Committee are a fine, varied and creative assembly of people to work with. Nevertheless, I must admit that the work of chairing the committee through this budgetary position has been demanding. As you know, we were unable to get multiples in the first setting for any of the budget proposals that were made. Now the situation is a different one. Therefore, I would like to begin by expressing my satisfaction that the Progress Party and the Right have shown a great deal of willingness to compromise and meet the centre party by showing a positive attitude to the initiative of the Prime Minister. Therefore, there is now a multi-annual recommendation by the Progress Party and the Right to grant subsidiary support to the amended proposal. The Centre Party is committed to the main priorities of the Government’s budget proposal – a tight budget: health and care an active and offensive district policy a large family policy effort better conditions for business, and especially for small businesses; At the same time, in our opinion, we have gone a long way – more than $3.5 billion in the first vote of the Finance Committee and now more than $2 billion in the additional vote of late Friday evening. We mean the changes that were made in the submission to the Government, are fully defendable. First of all, because the centre part of the amendment has passed on the main priorities mentioned. And when that's done, a minority government must be willing to compromise. Secondly, we stressed the importance of clarifying before the financial debate of consideration of the political process, of the work of the trade unions and of the monetary and financial markets. It is often said that Norway is in an economic crisis. I would like to stress that the Norwegian economy is still strong, but vulnerable to major changes in the oil price. It is important to note that all the contributions to the budget have a surplus allocated to the oil fund, cf. Table 2.4 of the Budgetary Section. S. In Appendix No 1st@item: inlistbox It's wrong to talk about crisis, it's wrong to talk about a lack of governance in fiscal policy. I think this budgetary agreement is the best contribution we can make from Stortinget's side in terms of the country's economy. Many might think: What about the increased interest rates and the weakened trust in the krona found this last year? High interest rates do not produce a good social distribution effect, they happen blindly, and they go hard on business. It is therefore important that the money and currency markets are now able to conclude that a tight budget will be adopted in the Grand Duchy. One of the main reasons why we in Norway have experienced a weaker dollar rate and higher interest rates is that we have a small, but open, and therefore very vulnerable economy. This means that we are easily influenced by circumstances outside our own range. The crisis that has spread from country to country in Asia, and then to continue to Russia and on to Brazil, also affects Norway. In addition, we are a major exporter of oil. The international crisis has mainly happened to us through the fall in the oil price, and the prospects for the future are also uncertain. In this situation picture that I've outlined here, it was that the center government put forward its first independent budget. The budget had a good distribution profile that would benefit a lot of people with incomes below NOK 280 000 would receive less tax. And the main areas of activity that the Government prioritised, the health and care sector, district policy and family policy, would contribute to a good development for society. Financial policy is one of the main elements of economic policy. Therefore, the Government has proposed that we use as little of the oil revenues as possible, and in the next year's government budget, it will be spent less on oil resources than it has been for many years. This is necessary to avoid strong pressure in the Norwegian economy. Besides, it is important to manage the petroleum resources with a long-term perspective, for the sake of those who come after us. The centre party thinks it's important to have a tight budget for next year, and in the adjusted submission we've found the defense with a tightening of about 7.7 billion dollars based on two basics: Firstly, there is a clear signal from the construction sector that it is now becoming somewhat lower. At the hearings of the Committee in the context of the budget, several bodies pointed out that the tightening could be at a level below DKK 9 billion. These points of view have also been listened to by the centre. Secondly, we have seen it as an important stabilizing element in itself that we could get a budget adjusted. That is why we are changing some of the areas of the Government's proposals, especially on the tax side. The cork Workers' Party, the Progress Party or the Right would be involved in supporting private purchasing power by increasing taxes and taxes to reduce the pressure on the economy. That is why it was necessary to change this in order to be able to obtain a majority behind a budget recommendation. These changes result in less revenue for the country, which must be compensated by additional cuts. This was very difficult, as the government had already done a cut of more than 5 billion kroner. After taking a new round of cuts and cuts in the budget, we still have a tightening of about 3⁄4 pst. Moreover, the underlying expenditure growth is reduced by 1⁄4 pst. At the same time, business conditions have changed, including: that the tax rate is set at 28 and that the submission to increase the employer’s liability for the three-day sick period is waived. No leading economists can, by a large measure, give a fascist response to what is right to tighten up, but others point to the danger of a budget that is too tight. The decisive thing in my opinion is that there can't be any doubt that the government will and can control the economy. The central government has placed great emphasis on economic policies to ensure that labour, capital and natural resources are managed as best as possible, and that they help to keep up the spread of unemployment. In this context, the economic situation of municipalities and counties is central. The proposal for the local government sector implies that the Government's plan is mainly implemented in accordance with the plural recommendation in ours. I'm aware that there are very big differences between municipalities, and with the big changes that have been made in recent years, it's important for me to stress that it needs to be evened out over time. The government raised the government budget to a special investment in the district, where the permits were increased by 620 million. kr in different areas. Furthermore, the action plan for the purchase of hospital equipment is attached and followed up. The same applies to the action plan on cancer care, which will result in a budget of DKK 2 billion over five years, both for the prevention, treatment and purchase of equipment. This is about values that most people are concerned about -- security and certain to get help when they need it. Money policy is firm, as it has done with several in Stortinget for a long time. The impact on the currency market of the introduction of the new EU currency from January will be followed continuously and the ‘channels’ that can be used will be used by the Government. I don't see any major contradiction between the proposals from the Labour Party and the Right Party and the Government Party, but they express differently that this is a very important area. The Centre Party will give priority to the areas it has focused on in the context of the State budget: health and care, active and offensive district policies, family policies and good business environment. The budget decision to be taken later today will facilitate the follow-up of these priorities in the coming year. At the same time, we want to participate in the central parties to ensure that values other than the purely material ones are taken into account in the political work. It can provide the basis for a safer society for all of us. We have unsolved tasks in our country. At the same time, it must be added that we live in a good country with a high level of well-being. That is why it is also important that we give priority to international justice. Finally, I will take up the suggestions from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left in the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e236	Lars Gunnar Lie has taken up the suggestions he has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e241	The centre party went to elections last year that they wanted a new course in politics. They would be independent of all sides. 42 representatives can never get anything on their own, nor can this government. So for the third time, the government has gone to the Progress Party and to the Right, and the course has been changed. It has moved almost $6 billion, as we have said, and that will mean: In the context of assistance to poor countries, special education has been cut in the basics of Reform 97, which is also a statutory reduction in kindergarten development – there have never been as few kindergartens in the 1990s as this year, and one should reduce further to next year. For the Labour Party, the most important thing about this budget has been, as it has been before, to reduce interest and secure jobs. And then we have to offer to those who need the big community the best and most. It's actually children, young and old. This is where I think the Christian People's Party is failing – both children, young people and older people. There was someone who called out louder, who had more money, and who got the Christian People's Party's support from this budget. I am very disappointed that the Christian People's Party, along with all the others here in the Stortinget who were in it and said that we should bet on the older reform, now goes away from it. This means that the municipalities cannot follow up on the bet that the Stortinge took for $30 billion in four years. We've heard from all the municipalities around that now they're having problems implementing the school leisure arrangements, they're putting down kindergartens, and they're putting down slums. My question to the representative Lie is: does not the Christian People's Party see that this is now a problem for the municipalities? It is not possible to say that municipalities save money when they cannot introduce an electricity tax that only 42 representatives are behind this in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e270	It was a bit of a yeremiade! We're not as bad as the representative of Frøiland now says. The government, through the draft budget we are about to adopt, has the power to take account of the priorities set by the Government. I don't think the most important thing for young children's parents is the number of kindergartens, but there's a supply of kindergartens. For me, the most important thing is to take care of the children and not the number in places in and separately. If there are enough places, that's what's most important. At the introduction of the cash support, we all knew that it would have an impact on the demand for nursery facilities. That page will be followed up. When it comes to assistance, I can reassure the representative of Frøiland that the aid budget is kept up to the level planned, i.e. 0.88 p.m. of gross national budget. That is a good budget we shall now adopt. It has a good profile, and I think it's best for our country what we're about to do.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e279	The budget adopted tonight is historic, at least in one way. It is, as far as I know, the first budget that contains a real drop in alcohol taxes – a sensible policy if you want to curb an ever-increasing border trade, home burning and smuggling. In particular, the latter is important because it provides an economic basis for heavy crime and heavy criminal environments in Norway. It was perhaps surprising that there was a central government and the center parties with a Christian People's Party in the head that would present such an arrangement, but nevertheless happy for that reason. The question I want to ask the representative, Lie, is this sign of a new recognition in the Christian People's Party, so that we can expect similar reasonable proposals at the next crossroads?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e286	Yes, it was a question to get for the former leader of the abstaining group on Stortinget! When we've changed the rates of alcohol, it's like part of a settlement. I don't think there's anyone in this room or around who thinks this is an idea that came from the representative Lie or the Christian People's Party. It's part of a settlement, and we have to be willing to compromise, we're going to get through a budget. The challenge for the Progress Party will then be to join in the next round to increase the beers' fee, because then we would get a proper distribution of this.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e293	The chairman of the finance committee is a faithful work in the vineyard, and in the autumn one must say that he has borne the burden and the name of the day. I assume that he is also so familiar with the sacred writing that he has nothing against others entering the twelfth hour and getting a full count. However, I meant to hear between the lines of the contribution from the head of the Financial Committee a message that said: Never again. It is a form of work we have had during the harvest that does not invite us to repeat. It is quite obvious to most people in this room that there is a need for closer cooperation between government and big business, and that there is a need for closer contact before the Government presents its proposals to the Stortinget. I would therefore like to ask the Chair of the Committee on Finance how he views the lessons that can be drawn from the budgetary procedure in the autumn, with a view to establishing more predictable forms of political cooperation between government and enlargement. There are some who, in the comments on the course of the harvest, have made it appear that the most important thing about a government budget is to keep someone outside the government offices and to keep someone inside the government offices. There must be a misunderstanding as to what a government budget is about. That is why I would also like to interpolate the Chair of the Finance Committee on how he views the long lines and the challenges of the future for the Norwegian economy. We have no crisis, I agree with the chairman of the Finance Committee, but the Norwegian economy, as he said, is vulnerable. In this context, the Right has always stressed that it is the long-term challenges that a low oil price confronts us, which is the real challenge. What visions does the current Government have as to the need for renewal, the need to create an innovation economy in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e302	I don't have anything against anyone coming in at 12 hours and getting full pay. Let's just say that. I would also like to say that the representative Wohnning must have heard something that I have not said and have not meant, when he interprets it to me that there was something in my post about never again. It didn't. In this context, I would like to refer to the agreement reached by the five parliamentary leaders. That agreement also contains guidelines on how to communicate. The representative also discussed how to meet the future, and it is clear that we are forced to see the relationship between what we use in the public sector and what we use in the private sector. It will be an exciting area to join in the conversations that will have to be held at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e311	‘It’s wrong to talk about a crisis,’ said the head of the committee. I am not sure that all those who are now getting increased excesses agree with this description of this budget. Last week we were presented with a report that estimated that 150 schools will be closed next year. The report is based on the draft budget of the councillors around the municipalities. The rationale for this time is solely economic. The new thing is that now we see school drop-outs in the larger cities as well. This is new and unlike in the past, as school dropouts have largely been concentrated in districts — this has been a district problem. Then one can hope that the politicians around the municipalities will make decisions other than those of the councillors. Nevertheless, the situation is quite dramatic. And since the rationale is economic, we have the opportunity to do something about this. In this budget, education is the major budget loss. We've cut up to 40 pst. for school leisure arrangements. We're looking at cuts of up to 10 pst. in the teaching of foreign language students. We also see that someone now has zeroed out the appropriation for equipment, for primary education. That means you've cut 50 million. kr. The 50 million. NOK was based on a previous decision to raise SEK 150 million. kr over three years. It's now zeroed out. My question to the chairperson of the committee is therefore: Does the chairperson of the committee believe that it is possible to make an active commitment to education for as long as the Progress Party and the Right are to set the stage for economic policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e321	There were many areas the representative Rikvam was inside. I'm going to try to address some of the challenges he's faced. First of all, he pointed to this with peculiarities. To that is, of course, to answer, among other things. that in the case of proprietary medicinal products, there will be a reduction, as the roof is reduced. When it comes to the costs of municipalities, it is mainly about wages, pensions and interest increases. If we use this budget to bring about a development that will lead to a decline in interest rates, it will have far more to say than the possible additions that come from individual parties here in Stortinget. The results and the economic situation of municipalities are not only due to what has happened this year. It also goes back to previous years. As I said in my post: We need to see the local economy – the situation in schools and education – over time. Not only one year's budget will decide this.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e330	I noticed that in the main feature of the Financial Committee’s chair, employment was not the main theme. I think the main theme of all the financial debates must be employment. For the Workers' Party, the goal is to bring the interest down. Ensuring jobs and building well-being are the most important issues. It also carries our attitude off. Then I have been surprised that the so-called block-independent government now clearly sees cash transfers as more important than service transfers. I noticed that the head of the finance committee said that it was not so dangerous to get full pay for 12 hours, only to arrive by the end of the deadline. But does the head of the financial committee feel comfortable going to drastic cuts in the local economy, on aid and on labour market measures? This is a full count for the Right Policy. Is the Chairman of the Financial Committee satisfied with the conduct of pure Right-wing policy in the voting? My question is, what are we going to do with a government that doesn't get things through in Stortinget? Doesn't that worry the head of the finance committee? Then he goes on to say that there has not been a lack of control over the debate here in Stortinget. But we now have the third one in front of us. That shall no longer happen, says the Chair of the Financial Committee. How does he continue to see the debates on fiscal policy, and how does he continue to see the implications? Is this a template you're going to work after the rest of the period?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e339	I thought it was the president of the Stortinget who led the debate here in the house, not in the committees. When it comes to employment, it's clear that it's a central theme. We'll follow developments carefully when it comes to employment. I agree with the representative of Nordtun that we must follow this closely. In a letter from the Ministry of Finance of 26 November to the Socialist Left Party, which is available in the Committee, it is pointed out that there is a great deal of uncertainty about the future development of the economy, including developments in the labour market. That means we're content to follow it carefully. But when I say that, I want to stress that there are no cuts in the local economy. The local economy will grow next year – not as much as some people want it to increase, but there will be a clear increase in the local economy.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e348	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e351	The main objective of the 1999 financial framework of the Workers’ Party is to contribute to the creation of stability in the economy in order to reduce interest rates, contribute to making jobs safe and secure important welfare tasks. The situation in the Norwegian economy has made it necessary to implement significant budgetary constraints for the next year. When the bourgeois majority last harvest weakened the budget by DKK 5 billion, the Workers' Party warned against this. A weakening of the budget, international currency turmoil and falling oil prices have contributed to the need for tightening. We have behind us a period of strong pressure on the Norwegian krona and a sharp increase in interest rates. This creates payment problems both for households and for business. The streamlining of high interest rates is unfair. The high level of interest rates is always the hardest for those who have little to do with it. The government has received a lot of criticism for the way the budgetary process is managed in this autumn. It's not unearthed. With a lack of confidence in the Norwegian economy and its governance, cleanness in the management of the State budget became particularly important in order to create stability. The opposition in Stortinget invited the Government to take account of the situation and promote a government budget that showed the way out of the miscarriage. For the Government, block independence was more important than the economic and political ambiguity of the Council. Now everyone knows the story. Until the twelfth hour, it was unclear whether the Government would be able to secure a majority in its budget. When the government parties bowed their knees to the Right and the Advance Party last week, a few hours before the financial debate should have started, the clarification that everyone was waiting for was a fact. It should've come before. The block independence was quickly declared dead by a short necrolog from the centre party leader. But in this situation, the Labour Party would like to stress that it is positive that we failed to start the reading of the budget here in the Chamber without knowing whether the debate could end with the adoption of a budget for the country by the Stortinge. The government originally presented a draft budget with very strong tax increases. In a situation of rising price growth, the charging increases further contributed in the wrong direction. When price and cost growth is almost twice what is happening in countries we deal with, we know that there is a rapid threat to Norwegian jobs. The opposition in the Storting rejected a policy that would only reinforce existing problems. The tax increases were reduced in the second draft of the government parties and removed in the compromise with the Right and Advance Party. The Labour Party believes it is right to remove price-driven tax increases, but once again we see that the bourgeois parties fund their settlement – at least a large part of it – by collecting money from the oil fund. Over SEK 1.3 billion of the savings have been used to meet the Right Party and the Advance Party. It does not in itself strengthen confidence in the governance of the Norwegian economy, and it actually makes us even more dependent on the falling oil revenues. It's important to ensure a good device when we're going to tighten into the economy. While some sectors experience pressure, there is increasing unemployment in other areas. In such a situation, it is necessary to have the possibility of active labour market policies. The most serious challenge in the coming years is the risk of increased unemployment. We're already seeing signs of a halting growth in employment. The Directorate of Labour estimates that next year we will have increased unemployment; yes, the Directorate believes we need to be prepared to increase unemployment from 50,000 to 70 000 in 1999. In the government's own documents, the risk of increased unemployment is clearly described. The Labour Party believes that the civil parties in their settlement are lacking in action to meet such developments. Strengthening cooperation between workers, employers and authorities is necessary in order to ensure employment and to enable employment to be renewed. To this end, the authorities should bring together the heads of the main organisations on the labour side and the employers' side in a joint committee with a mandate to establish a new solidarity pact for working life. The Committee should complete its work before the next year's salary settlement. The central parties have, in their comments, been in favour of the intention of this proposal, and the Government should now intervene. Unfortunately, the budgetary conciliation involves a further cut in labour market measures. Here the Government gives itself the opportunity to meet the difficulties of the labour market and increasing unemployment in some sectors with an active labour market policy. We know that this will affect those who have the most difficulty in converting and who can stay standing without work. This may be good right-hand and forward party policy, but it's poor distribution policy. The Labour Party proposes to increase the number of action places from 8 000, contained in the Government’s draft budget, to 12 000. In our view, it will be necessary to pursue active labour market policies and to avoid increasing unemployment. It is demanding to tighten public expenditure without affecting important offers to the population. This becomes even more demanding when such a tightening should start by increasing the cost by nearly NOK 3 billion for the distribution of cash support. The working party opposes the cash support and prioritises other important welfare offers. A unanimous Storting has adopted a completely necessary improvement in care for the elderly. The working party will follow up on this. We are disappointed that the centre parties together with the Right and the Advance Party are now pushing for development. This means that 2100 older people who should have received a new offer for the next year are not getting it. Here, the elderly failed, and a unanimous decision was set aside. The working party has entered into full childcare coverage by the year 2000. We believe that 12 000 new kindergartens will have to be built next year. When the budget is adopted tonight, there might be room for 2,500 new kindergartens. I might say, because the cuts made by the citizens in the kindergarten sector mean that there is a great deal of uncertainty as to whether there is coverage at all for new kindergartens in 1999. The Labour Party strongly disagrees with the dramatic cuts that the bourgeois parties are now making in the school leisure system. A good school leisure system is good preventive work. Now the offer is considerably more expensive. The families most in need of such an offer for their children may be the first to see how to use it in 1999. It does not benefit the civil parties to hide behind the cash support. With cuts in education, cuts in the school leisure system, and almost halted in kindergarten expansion, the children became the big losers in this budgetary settlement. During 1998, the local government sector experienced a significant increase in its costs. This is due, inter alia, to: increased wage and salary costs, increased pension costs and interest increases. The Workers' Party's proposal for an alternative state budget will, as a whole, provide about DKK 1 billion more to the local government sector in the form of increased transfers and reduced costs than is in the budgetary agreement between the centre and the right. The structure of the Workers' Party also means that the free revenues of the municipalities increase by approx. NOK 1.2 billion more than in the budget agreement. This would enable municipalities to ensure good care for the elderly, good kindergartens and a good school. The working party now believes it is important to think in the long term. Today we are to adopt a budget for 1999. The unstable situation we've been and are in, calls for us to think about how we're going to bring back more stability in economic development beyond the next financial year. We cannot prevent international currency turmoil or failing oil prices. However, we can implement long-term measures that will be important for the development of the Norwegian economy. I have already been about the need to restore the good dialogue between the social partners and the authorities. The Workers' Party has proposed several measures that will be important in order to achieve greater stability in the longer term. We believe that a more active European policy must be pursued. Norway’s relationship with the EU is crucial for Norwegian jobs and for our welfare in the future. The EU is undergoing a very dynamic development as a result of negotiations on eastward enlargement and the establishment of a single currency from 1 January 1999. This creates new challenges for Norway. It is necessary to reinvigorate European policy. Norway needs to initiate a strategic dialogue with the EU in order to strengthen our anchoring in the EEA Agreement and our participation in the various EU cooperation projects. Such a dialogue may also examine the possibility of linking the Norwegian krona closer to the euro. Structural changes in the public sector are necessary to ensure more financial and human resources for care of the elderly, for health and for education. We need to reinvigorate the renewal of the state administration and public service. The relationship between the county councils and the state administration needs to be clarified in order to eliminate unnecessary duplication of administration. Voluntary associations of municipalities must be encouraged. A State Modernisation Committee in which workers and user interests are involved is appointed to assist such work – this suggests the Workers' Party in the suspension. The Labour Party believes that there is a need to invest in knowledge and research. It must be a primary task to make Norway less dependent on oil and gas revenues. A broad commitment to competence is necessary. The quality of primary and secondary education needs to be improved. Higher education institutions and universities need to be given increased resources and a reform of continuing education needs to be developed. Research is the basis for knowledge development and industrial development. It is necessary to ensure that research is provided with stable and increased resources over the years to come. That is why we are proposing the establishment of a Norwegian Research Fund. The Fund should be provided with funds from the sale of the State’s shares, which have been adopted. This ensures that the country's wealth is relocated to forward-looking activities and does not allow for more consumption. The financial situation shows that a majority of these proposals are in place. It is of great importance that a majority in the United Kingdom can stand together on important long-term structural measures. This autumn, the debate on the State budget has also been a debate on the role and handling of the Government. With 42 representatives behind the Stortinget, it could have been expected that the government would listen to some of the opposition's clear advice earlier. When we dealt with the financial situation last autumn, the government parties with the prime minister chose to call the Workers' Party's warnings black paint the situation. The Prime Minister expressed it as follows: ‘The leader of the Labour Party held... an article that was quite marked by a black-painting of the situation.’ He continued: ‘For what are the facts? We have lower unemployment than in many years, and employment continues to rise. Price increases and interest rates are low’. The parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party had previously stated the following: ‘But what disappoints me and astonishes me is that leading workers’ party politicians are working with this kind of black paint of the situation, contrary to all indicators of the economy’. Here both the Prime Minister and the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party made a serious mistake. Normally you would learn from this. But now we find that the government parties, with the Prime Minister at the head, again call the Workers' Party's objections to black paint. Last week at the latest in a debate. When the Workers' Party highlights the danger of increasing unemployment or points to the fact that welfare services are now being reduced in municipalities, it is called black paint. It's bold. The part of the scale is not in itself in saying the Workers' Party against it. No, the scales are in that the Government may again make mistakes. It is not worthy of those who wish to be affected by the government's misassessments. And if in a debate like this one were to want something, it had to be that the country's government stood up and took full responsibility for the policies it is pursuing and the consequences of it. When the budgetary agreement implies that the Right Party and the Advance Party have had significant influence, the Government should have its back on recognising it without blaming other parties. The Labour Party takes full responsibility for our policies. Wishing the same from the Government is more than a pious Christmas wish – it is in my opinion a quite reasonable expectation. At the end of the day, I will be allowed to address the proposals that the Workers' Party is promoting through the suspension alone or together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e438	Hill-Marta Solberg has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e443	In its proposal for a police budget, the Labour Party has supported the Government's original proposal, which aimed at a solution of 5.5 p.m., which is less than expected wage growth and expected price rise, and which in reality means a clear decrease in support to the police. VG writes today that the country needs 900 new police officers. In the Workers' Party's proposal, there is no new position, and on top of that, less money means overtime. So my question to the Workers' Party is, how can you defend to weaken the police now, with the wave of violence we see in our big cities and the crime development in our country? I expect a clear answer to this question, and no wonder that the Oslo Workers' Party is proposing more leisure clubs than the Advance Party, because leisure clubs can be built independently of the police budget. Let me also drop an investigation into the alcohol policy of the Advance Party, which we always get in response when we fight for increased police, because there is another debate. And let me drop a new round of economic problems in our country, because this is a question of how you want to prioritize the means you have. And when the Workers' Party can send $10 billion out of the country, you might want to transfer only one small percentage of this money to strengthen the police and strengthen the security of our all. My question is simply this – it is a simple question, and I expect a simple answer: How can the Labour Party defend to weaken the police when it will obviously lead to more violence, more burglaries and more insecurity for all of us, not least children and the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e452	That's how the questioner, the representative Simonsen, formulates the question, but the answer is the answer to the answer. I have to say that it is quite alarming – or perhaps it is not so alarming, but it should arouse the concern of many – that a representative of the Progress Party is going forward in this pulpit and characterises almost everything that has to do with preventive work, such as svada. That's what I think. When other parties are concerned about how the education offer, how the school leisure system, how youth services, how everything related to prevention is playing in order to avoid some of the problems we are unfortunately facing, the Progress Party chooses to call these kinds of relationships swada. Some of the main problem with the Advance Party policy is that there are no such links; one ignores the whole of a society. In fact, the Labour Party is very concerned about the recent developments with increasing violent trends, not least among the youngest. But as far as our draft budget is concerned, let me say: it is right, as Simonsen points out, that the Workers' Party is continuing what was in the Bondevik government's proposal for a national budget. It was judged by the Government as a sound level, and it has supported the Workers' Party. Let me also say that the Workers' Party should follow developments closely in the future with regard to these trends that no one thinks are good, but it will never be so for us that the answer to it alone, and all alone, is the police, as it is for the Advancement Party. She may even need a reinforcement of the police – I do not ignore it at all – but that alone is not the answer to the problems we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e461	The argument put forward by the representative, Solberg, about right-wing rotation in the budget has a poor impact. Why? Yeah, because the Labour Party at its national meeting didn't criticize Right, but invited to cooperate. How does the representative of Solberg think that this cooperation would come out when it comes to taxes and levies and cuts in the budget? The economic policy underpinning each budget — and alternative budget for its debt — is an instrument for achieving key social policy objectives. Stable economic development, employment and employment are important keywords in such a context. This is where the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party may have a common interest. But when we get to the way business taxation is going to be, the differences get bigger. How can the representative, Solberg, defend the objective of high employment, while the Labour Party is to tighten up the sharing model, remove the stock quota and reverse the shipping tax?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e470	It could almost be understood by the representative Lie’s question that it had become a problem for the central government that the Workers’ Party did not criticise the Right at the Workers’ Party’s national meeting. At the same time, the representative, through his statement earlier today, said that the Right has got a full count – there was actually no problem either, only the result came in time. So here's a little bit of context in the argumentation. Then the representative Lie is concerned with the relationship between the Labour Party's tax policy on business and our involvement in jobs. Yes, that's very clear and good context, because the Labour Party's budget proposal does not include general tax increases, as the government's original tax regime meant. This government has therefore proposed to increase taxes for all businesses, introduce electricity taxes, introduce short-term taxes, introduce increased employers' liability for the sick pay period. This is when the representative Lie goes to this pulpit and accuses the Workers' Party of a poor relationship between fiscal policy and employment. Our tax proposals are one and only proposals that contribute to closing gaps in the tax system. We believe that this is absolutely necessary and reasonable, both in order to create an effective and good tax system and not least in order to contribute to justice. The government was so much concerned with the idea when they proposed to reverse a small part of the shipping tax, but also it gave up meeting with the Right Party and the Advance Party, despite the fact that the Government had in its own documents described the necessity of the small adjustment, in order at least to remove some of the unfortunate tax adjustments it has provided in today's tax system for shipping companies.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e482	There has been no lack of freers for the Right in this round of the Stortingen budget debate. We might be more in doubt about the location of some of the instructions, to say it like that, or maybe rather they didn't get any of it? The Labour Party is to be commended for saying a lot of sensible things in the setting, and for carrying out a national meeting that may have had a greater sense of reality than for a long time. They say, among other things: in the setting: ‘The uncertainty associated with developments in the international and Norwegian economy is in favour of greater stability in business-affecting conditions’.» I very much agree with that. It's also been Right Policy for a long time. But I do miss following this in practice, because on the one hand, how can one talk about the need for greater stability and at the same time threaten the same business – at least much of it – with increased taxes, the so-called sharing model, which is a tax on the owners, and which makes the owners have to take out more money from the companies to be left right away? How can we defend instability and predictability when it comes to changing taxes on wealth? Not the big companies, because the Workers' Party has in many ways been at peace with them, but the smaller companies, the unlisted companies, have to get extra out of it. I therefore ask for answers to two questions: what is the idea behind this conscious way of withdrawing money from smaller businesses? The big stock exchanges are left alone, but the smaller ones are now to be thrown over. I understand that one was willing to put this aside if the Right had come to the Labour Party with a budget. My second question is: how long would this omission of the distribution program, which Hill-Marta Solberg himself presented at the national meeting, be? Was it short-sighted, just for 1999, saying that it would be even tougher in 2000, or was it for the whole period?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e496	As everyone understands from the questions the representative Foss now asks me, no negotiations have taken place between the Labour Party and the Right in this budgetary process. It carries the questions of, and it will probably also carry a certain touch of the answer. But it's quite right, as Per-Kristian Foss stressed, that the Workers' Party and the Right, in many general remarks on the economic situation, have a relatively similar view of the need to create stability, and we're talking about stability in the longer term as well. That is why the Workers' Party in the financial position has made concrete proposals to help create stability in a longer perspective than in 1999. It is also gratifying that the Right has been one of the parties that have entered and supported this in the setting. But I quite disagree with Per-Kristian Foss in his description of the Workers' Party's tax proposals. As I had in my previous answer, the Labour Party believes that it is absolutely necessary and right at any time to ensure that we have a tax system that does not have holes, which does not have room for adjustments. It was really the main purpose of the tax settlement when the tax reform came in 1992 — to ensure that as much taxation as possible and to facilitate as much adjustment as possible. And it's an inevitable fact that such things, among other things. the tax system today, with the ceiling of the sharing model, provides room for adaptations. We should get away from that. The same is true of today's shipwreck, so we should get away from that too. But the Labour Party, and I stress that, has not proposed general tax increases for 1999. Nor have we presented this in the distribution policy programme that Per-Kristian Foss pointed out. We rarely have short durability stamping on our policies – on the contrary. The Labour Party is also known in fiscal policy for what we stand for, and we stand for it in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e505	The representative, Hill-Marta Solberg, spent a lot of time in his speech describing the situation in the Norwegian economy and thus described a series of measures through budgetary and financial policies that could move in the right direction. And a lot of it's not hard to join. But it's like the big tears. Yes, it is actually going to be a little helpless and kind of mean so much after the setting has been given. The thing is, the Storting has been invited to find good solutions to what a minority government has presented. And being solution-oriented will say to what extent one has intended to influence these proposals and find good solutions. Of course, it has to do with responsibility. And if we look at the Labour Party's accountability through this budgetary process, it's close to converting both decision-making and decision-making. I'll take two. The tax proposals submitted by the Workers' Party have been presented with a view to their retroactive effect on the debt in order to bring revenue into place in 1999. I am thinking about the identification rules in the sharing model, the shipping tax and the taxation of the smallest family businesses. Of course, if a majority in the Storting would reverse tax rulings and give them retroactive effect, the Labour Party could get these incomes that they do not have at all. I'll list case number two. The acquisition has decided to introduce a cash aid amount of NOK 2.8 billion. These revenues are obtained by the Workers' Party by requiring Odelstinget and Stortinget to make their decisions. As a result, the responsibilities of the Labour Party will be minimal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e516	It could almost be heard from the representative Holte as if we had not had to conduct this debate, and that the parties that are not included in the vote should almost make their comments. It's a strange political thought, and it's a strange way to think about it in a parliamentary, democratic system. Of course, the Labour Party must promote its views even when we do not agree with the Centre Party, and also when we do not agree with the Centre Party when the Centre Party agrees with the Progress Party. Of course, we must also promote our policies in the future – that is something the representative of Jørgen Holte can be quite certain about. Then the representative Holte is concerned with the Workers' Party's tax proposal, which has been given retroactive effect to those who are subject to arrears. Yeah, the center parts are familiar with that. When the centre lots introduced the shipping tax, it was given with retroactive effect. It was effective for the year in which it was adopted in the autumn, so that the method of implementing tax decisions and giving them the effect of past dues for the current year is well-tested. Then I have to remind the representative Holte that a slight adjustment has been proposed in the shipping tax in the national budget promoted by the central government. It took effect on 5 October 1998 — the date on which the budget was presented — in order to prevent tax adjustments being made on the road. It's quite strong diet! Then there is not much to hold from this speaker to criticise the Workers' Party for promoting tax proposals and giving them retrospective power. Otherwise, the central government, at a number of points in the financial framework for 1999, has decided to change the issues adopted in the Stortinget. The proposal on holiday was such an example. The same is true of the adopted reform of the elderly, which is now being pushed on, despite the unanimous decision on progress.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e527	I must allow myself to say when I hear the tone between the Senterpartiet and the Workers' Party, that it does not promise well to get an alternative majority here in Stortinget through this period. Hill-Marta Solberg referred to his contribution to unemployment and thought it was one of the major challenges for Norwegian society, and I very much agree with that. But what is then striking is that the Labour Party in its budget actually has a stronger tightening than the centre parties along with the right parties have now done. The relationship between tightening and a lower level of interest rates has not been established. We have already seen that the interest rate has now been substantially tightened, or the exchange rate has been strengthened. But what we know for sure is that major contractions will lead to higher unemployment. And my first question to Hill-Marta Solberg is this: does the Workers' Party really think that it is necessary to cut down by 9 billion kroner, and also give the municipalities less freedom to do the many important tasks that we believe Norwegian municipalities should have? In this way, the SV and the Workers' Party are on the line, but the Workers' Party is also cutting deep into the municipalities' ability to solve welfare tasks, which Hill-Marta Solberg was engaged in. And my question is: if we are faced with such a situation until next year as the Director of Labour describes – that we might get 20,000 new unemployed people – it would not be right to encourage municipalities to solve the welfare problems in order to secure employment and to ensure the ringing effects of the public sector on private business. The Labour Party held a national meeting in the middle of the budgetary process that sent double signals to the voters and to the Stortinget. On the one hand, we want to cooperate with the bourgeois parties in order to create a stability pact and a government based on the Workers' Party, but on the other hand, we are criticising the same parties. What could have been interesting after the budgetary agreement that has now been concluded between the civil government and the two bourgeois parties on the outer right is to know whether the Workers' Party has made a tactical assessment here or whether it was a strategic choice. My question is: Does the Workers' Party really think that cooperation with the right parties is better than trying to create an alternative cooperation that lies on the left?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e538	From the beginning of October and the end of all negotiations on the state budget in Stortinget, all the parties in this room, with the exception of the SV and the Progress Party, agreed on the need for tightening up. We agreed that the level of convergence in the national budget described by the Government was correct. Unfortunately, there are some people who have been working along the way on their opinions and goals. This applies to the centre parts and the right parts. I do not mention the progress part in that context, because they have always believed that it is not so necessary to tighten up, just as SV has done. The working party believes that what has happened through the agreement is very unfortunate, by the fact that it has now actually gone away from what the government itself described. In fact, the Minister of Finance, in a letter to the Workers’ Group, has said that there are no new conditions in the economy that address other considerations of the need to tighten up than those described in the national budget. But anyway, you've gone away from it through the equation. The Workers' Party has actually supported the central government's proposals. We believe it was a correct and wise dosage. On the other hand, we disagree with the device, and it also appears in the setting. The Labour Party believes it is very important in such a situation as we are now going into, to pursue active labour market policies. I have also put great emphasis on that in my article. The representative of SV is occupied by the ‘double signal’ from the national meeting of the Workers’ Party. Let me say the following: in many ways it is remarkable that it is possible to hammer on a party – and I had hardly said any party, in fact the largest in the country, with 65 representatives in the Stortinget – because it has been willing to stand up and take responsibility if everything else would collapse, which it actually looked like during the course of the negotiations. I think the Workers' Party would have made a fundamental mistake if we had then said that we did not take responsibility regardless of the situation that arises in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e547	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e550	I would like to begin by addressing the proposals of the Progress Party for the establishment of a framework for the allocation of the State budget for 1999. The Progress Party believes that most people will and can take responsibility for their own lives. That's why we also respect the individual's right to determine his own life. Since we believe that people are able to make good decisions on their own behalf, neither do we need a system where politicians rule over them and all their tasks. Why do the Norwegian people have to pay taxes and taxes on every thing they do? Yeah, why should I, for example? the price of petrol in oil producing Norway is highest in Europe? The Progress Party does not understand that, and we have therefore proposed in our option to reduce the petrol tax by 2 kroner per person. liters. In our alternative budget, we have proposed tax reliefs of DKK 25 billion, and that means a strong redistribution of money and greater freedom of action for individuals. Not least, it means that the state is getting less money to waste on unnecessary tasks. I have registered that our political opponents in both the Workers' Party and the Right are pulling a little bit on the smileband of the alternative budget of the Advance Party and calling us both rabbis and irresponsibles. Right-wing Børge Brende has even stated that he would use our alternative state budget against us in the election campaign. Yes, he is, in that case, not alone, because most parties choose to campaign against the Advance Party instead of talking about their own policies. I understand that it is difficult for other parties, who have grown firmly in the watering around the state budget treatment, to see that it is actually possible to make greater changes to the state budget than they themselves can. But we've never hidden that with our priorities, some things will have to give up. It is real, and it is honest, to recognise that not all budget lines are at the same level of priority. We give priority to the tasks we think need to be solved by the public, and then we give people and business money back through tax relief, so that they can take care of the benefits they need. There is obviously not good music in the Right and Workers' Party's ears that, for example. opera is not a priority set with the eyes of the Advance Party. Of course, if subsidies are removed, the operating tickets are more expensive, but why are all Norwegian people going to pay for something that only a small minority are going to use? Why is it so wrong to pay more for the opera ticket when you have more to route with because you are left with more money through tax relief? It's a bit motivating that politicians are so concerned that the state is going to do so incredibly strange that they don't have the money to finance the tasks that are most important to us all. The Progress Party chooses to give priority to the tasks we've gone to elections, and we've never tried to pretend that we should be at least as good as the other parties to waste taxpayers' money. If we are to get rid of the health cows, yes, we have to do something about it – not just talk about it. Then we have to finance the piece price more, and we have to make sure that we get the most treatment for each krona we invest in the health sector. In a transitional phase, that means that we also have to give more money. If we're going to reduce crime and make people's everyday life safer, we have to do something about it as well. We can't just talk about it. What does it just help to talk about preventive work when people are whipped down on the open street, completely unmotivated? The first thing we have to do then is to strengthen security through more police, which is not least where violence is committed. What's the point of retraining a lot of police officers if we don't give enough money so that they have a job to do when they're trained? Once we do that, we can start talking about prevention. But I'm reacting to a dream with politicians spending more time understanding the criminals than making fewer people victims of crime. Therefore, the Progress Party chooses to invest more money in these areas rather than to climb around for all purposes. So to the discussion of budgetary constraints. Who has said that the limit of a sound government budget goes by a reduction of 9 billion kroner? We see that business is already considerably tightened, and it's already considerably tightened up people's usual consumption, because interest rates are too high. The working party has recently tried to create the impression that only those who can manage the Norwegian economy well. Yes, when did Thorbjørn Jagland become so special that he can control the development of the oil price, which is actually one of the main reasons why we have high interest rates in Norway? Why is the Labour Party talking so much about tightening up when they are at the same time busy preventing increased unemployment next year? In fact, tightening means fewer jobs. There is reason to remember what happened to the Norwegian economy at the end of the 1980s during Gro Harlem Brundtland, when we also tightened up too much in a difficult time. Then the problems were reinforced, and the economy went quite wrong. Then someone has claimed that the Progress Party won't see its cuts, but that's not right. They are publicly available. Let me explain some of our cuts. We reduce party support because we think the political parties should depend on the favor of the voters, not on their tax money. And the Progress Party actually knows a little bit about what it's like to fight against established party-colosses without even having money. It's going, of course it's going! You don't have to depend on subsidies to be able to run election campaigns in a credible way. We reduce press support because we want a free and independent press that is independent of public subsidies. We are reducing the aid budget because we believe that the compulsory taxpayer financed the aid too much does not work as intended. U-help has not been used for self-help, as it was supposed to be, but it has become a waste of money that does not bring the recipient countries to a desired development. We therefore believe that ordinary people have to decide for themselves whether they want to, in what way they want and how much they want to provide in aid. This is why there is one important way to get assistance for these countries, and that is among other things. building trade barriers — stimulating free trade. We cannot pursue an unhelp policy that in many areas is a pure support for dictatorships around the world. We cut into integration measures because we're creating a lower reception rate for refugees, and we assume that we will receive a maximum of a thousand quota refugees in 1999. In fact, the Progress Party believes that Norway has more than enough challenges to integrate the refugees and immigrants who are already in Norway. Then we cut into the cultural budget because we want a free and independent cultural life. We cut the tax payer's subsidy to the opera, to the theater and ballet. It's strange that when big concerts are held that especially attract young people, there are no state subsidies going on, but the concerts go off the full house stack. This is market alignment. We're halving the artists' tips, and we're halving the guarantee income for artists because artists like all other employees have to earn their living in the usual way. There is a great difference between the alternative budget of the Progress Party and the government budget adopted with our subsidiary agreement. Of course, we regret that it is not possible to obtain tax relief and that there is no majority in favour of a stronger commitment to core tasks. But we are also committed to taking responsibility, taking the responsibility that rests on us as the country's second largest party. Then we have to adopt a responsible budget, and we have tried to contribute to that. The budget deal is therefore far from perfect with our eyes, but there are some things going in the right direction. Even if it took time to get a deal, there's a reason to praise the center parties for the concessions they finally made. Then it was possible to reach a consensus, and there should be more to be pleased with today. This also means that we have not made demands in the negotiations that the centre profile should be removed. Because even though we disagree with many of the profile issues of the center parties, the Progress Party understands that a settlement means giving and taking from all parties. But what we called for was that the Progress Party should also be seen, and then it is unreasonable to assume that the Progress Party will be involved in supporting a budget that involves tax and tax cuts when we ourselves want tax relief. At least we had to meet at a zero point, and we're clear. It was also unreasonable to assume that we would agree to support a budget that did not prioritise the defence, police or health services. But it got the center parts and made the necessary concessions. Through this budgetary agreement, we have been able to restore the special deduction for the elderly, and the Progress Party is happy to do so. It was reduced last year, now it's back at the level it was, and we can be very proud of that. We have managed to secure the reimbursement system for seafarers, and we have managed to maintain the shipping tax. We have increased the input-based funding of hospitals, or the piece-price financing as it is de facto. It is not that the Progress Party has run from its main objective of tax relief, but we have tried to make the best of a situation that would otherwise be worse. Now it should also be said that there are no parties on the Stortinget that want to reduce the tax and tax levels in Norway, but at least we have contributed to getting a budget, and that we do not get a government crisis. We are therefore subsidising ourselves to the negotiated agreement. We were able to stop the tax and tax increases that would otherwise lead to the good pay settlement that we have behind us, which would be brought in just through tax and tax increases. Common people, business and municipalities already have high expenditures as a result of the high level of interest rates. Our most important task will now be to bring interest down in the future. Unfortunately, the Progress Party is not convinced that this will happen as a result of the budget, because the interest level is currently governed by the exchange rate development, which in turn affects a great deal of oil price development. And since the Norwegian economy is highly oil dependent, it is also becoming particularly vulnerable in a time of very low oil prices, which unfortunately also seems to be continuing. At the same time, there are indeed some politicians who have contributed to tearing down the impression of a solid and good economy, which is actually the Norwegian economy, and this contributes in sum to influencing the krone price and thus also the level of interest. If we're going to get interest rates down, we're going to have to use tools that we can control ourselves, and not just sit and hope that the oil price gets higher. Such an instrument is to transform monetary policy: away from today's fixed-rate policy and beyond into an inflation target. Much of the grip on the government budget agreement has led to the disappearance of part of the inflation increase through tax and tax skewers. At the same time, some indicators suggest that next year's inflation forecasts are too high. This means, then, that the basis for a rapid fall in interest rates on monetary policy changes should be present. In fact, we have recently been able to read statements from the Norwegian Bank that state that it is no longer relevant to use the interest rate as an additional instrument to stabilise the krone price. Norway’s Bank then has to buy Norwegian krone in large quantities to try to stabilise the krone price that way, and there is reason to be some concern that the Norwegian currency reserves are constantly decreasing. This also means that over time a small nation such as Norway cannot withstand the persistent pressure against the Norwegian krona that we have seen over time. In sum, the negotiated budget agreement is good enough to allow the Progress Party to vote in favour of it subsidiaryly, although it is very far from our policy in a number of areas. We have now argued about approx. 1 pst. by the State budget. So that's between 4 and 5 billion dollars of a budget of over 500 billion dollars. And it's used strong words, like crisis and irresponsible governance, from several teams. But just by seeing that Norway can risk losing 30 billion kroner because of the low oil price, this should be put in a completely different perspective. The state budget that is now being adopted does not create a crisis for anyone, even though the Workers' Party is doing everything they can to claim the opposite. It is not the case, as in the Workers' Party's arrangement, that all the problems of the country will be solved only if you are allowed to increase the taxes on the so-called rich in society. We should have got rid of this envy policy in one of the richest countries in the world. It's strange that we're willing to accept lotto millionaires and sports millionaires, but as soon as people become millionaires in hard work, it's kind of a bad thing about it. I don't understand why these people are to be charged with additional responsibility when they both pay taxes and create jobs in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e601	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e604	The policy of the Progress Party has a pretty ugly backside, as I see Siv Jensen now got along very well, but here are some tastes to: The whole of the Municipality-Norway is turning around to find enough money to solve the imposed welfare tasks! The answer of the Progress Party is to give municipalities and counties several billion less! And now we just heard the representative Jensen call it "money redemption." So it's a waste of giving the municipalities what they need. Schools, educational and research institutions call for more money in order to provide a high level of knowledge for both pupils and teachers. The answer of the Progress Party is to give them closer to NOK 1 billion less. In other words, the policy of the Progress Party is much more than that of the police and out with immigrants. The progress party's firm life saving of the Bondevik government has produced results in the direction that the Progress Party will: more progress party policy. What will the representative Jensen and the Progress Party give priority to the next time they give life to the Bondevik government? Could it be in the area of the working environment/working time regulations? In order to give priority to the Progress Party's programme here, this will seriously undermine the rights of workers. I would like to remind you that Einar Gerhardsen once said that the most important thing in his time was that ordinary workers should not be allowed to stand with their hands when the big people came. The progress party's so-called voluntary line in the labour market will bring the protection of workers back to the conditions of the mid-war. And I ask again, what will the representative Jensen and the Progress Party give priority to the next time they give life to the Bondevik government?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e613	It will probably be an advantage if the representative from the Labour Party took a break both by reading the alternative budgets of the Progress Party and by noting how we prioritise each year in the budgetary procedure, because we are perfectly predictable when we lay down our budgets. We give priority to the same most important tasks every year, and we give priority to the tasks that we see less important. The claim that Kommune-Norge would suffer if we had received a pass on to our municipal structure is with respect to reporting errors. The Progress Party has made changes to the municipal structure because we think there is reason to earmark more money just for health care, care for the elderly and school, because we have experience in seeing a number of municipalities around the country prioritize these tasks and build cultural buildings and other things instead. A claim must be made on Kommune-Norway. At a time when everyone is concerned about streamlining and rationalising, municipalities must also be able to do the same. We've seen very little of that around the municipality of Norway. So it's going to be possible to prioritize the most important thing first without drifting and climbing around for a number of purposes that never work. Then the representative spoke about the rights of workers who would be weakened by a progress party budget. I have recently appeared to record that the workers have started to trust much more in the Advance Party than they are proud of the Workers' Party, which has shown who they are prioritizing. Yes, because the Labour Party prioritises the interests of large business schools rather than those of ordinary people. It shows the Workers' Party very well through the monetary policy they support, which in fact means that it is the ordinary taxpayers who have to pay the burden through increased interest rates because they do not want the exchange rate to fluctuate. It's to protect business, not to protect ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e624	We in the Christian People's Party are adherents of a mixed economic arrangement where we see that elements from market liberalism can have a positive effect, but furthermore that for the sake of distribution and taking care of weak groups' interests, it is also necessary to adapt measures to prevent pure-bred market liberalism from slipping into its cold and cynical results. As an example, we think there are others and better targets in a good hospital than just financial results. In our view, it is also not entirely the way the patient experiences hospitalization. We are also skeptical of a social development that has made it good Latin that the first argument that is called when a business gets in trouble is that it has too many added, it has to slim down the organization. When this is said at the same time as a million-class coverage of lead parachutes, all of us should be alerted. The Progress Party has a market-liberalist base which is based on the free movement of all industries because, in their opinion, this provides the best socio-economic solution. In parallel with this, there are also strong speakers and spokesmen in the Progress Party for freedom of choice, justice, duties and not least freedom for individuals. Does the representative Jensen see that these two areas can be mutually exclusive in relation to each other? We also see that the Progress Party in many cases and in many areas has a warm and genuine commitment to taking care of individuals and postponing their groups well. And in order to keep me on the macro-planet: does the representative Jensen and the Progress Party see the need to correct the reindeer free market liberalism with corrective action in order to avoid an ice-cold society characterized by the fact that overarching goals is the highest possible return on capital and the strongest of its rights – a society with poor conditions for the individual or the group that for some reason does not manage to assert itself in a highly competitive society?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e633	It'll be almost entertaining to listen to the representative Sørfonn when he talks about cynicism and the ice-cold society related to market liberalism, especially when the representative talks about patients' experiences of hospital treatment in a market-adapted system. Yes, what kind of health care have we had in Norway until today? It has not been at all the market adaptations that have been given priority, but only the ability of politicians, or the inability, to give priority. For example, why is this so? so that the Christian People's Party and the other parties are not willing to participate and legislate patients' rights in Norwegian society? It would put the patient in focus. Instead, the budgets of hospitals are being put into focus today, so treatment of patients is not a matter of concern. Yes, one of the reasons we're constantly being treated more patients is that we're gradually increasing input-based funding every year. The hospitals themselves say that this is the most important instrument for treating more patients in a shorter time and for a more reasonable amount of money, and then I think it's a little easier to blame the Progress Party for wanting a colder society. It's not that society gets colder because we use our resources in a more efficient way. Yeah, just by doing it, there'll be more money left for other good purposes, and it should be in everyone's interest that we use each and every penny in a sensible way instead of pretending that we've inherited them from somewhere. I do not think that politicians should always control everything and believe that they should be over-judges over people's minds.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e638	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank you for your cooperation through the budget negotiations in the autumn. I would also like to commend the Progress Party and the representative Jensen for great flexibility, taking into account that the party launched tax reductions of NOK 25 billion and finally at one time was willing to accept increases. But after we went to the Progress Party for a time to see their cut list, we have now got it on the table. There it's cut at $30 billion, and then we really see that all the fine words have a backside. It was not just cut into opera and aid that the representative Jensen was supposed to have. On the contrary, the life’s nerve is cut to the foundation of our future well-being, among other things. research and education. What impact does the representative Jensen think would have on Norway if the cut of nearly DKK 1 billion to research and education were adopted? The University of Oslo loses $70 million. kr, University of Trondheim loses 30 million. kr, the same applies to the University of Bergen, grants to primary schools will be cut by 400 million. SEK, 40 million advanced training. kr and the quality development of the secondary education, which the Progress Party considers not to be good enough, shall be cut by 10 million. kr. This is a clever proposal for a cut that the Progress Party has promoted in education and research, which means that Norwegian business life will be reset, and the education that our children receive will be dramatically weakened. Then I heard that the representative Jensen in his post said – and it was addressed to me – that we prioritize in our budget what matters. And then my question is, are we going to draw the conclusion that research and education doesn't matter because one here chooses to cut by $1 billion? I want an explanation for the cuts, and not just outside the conversation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e645	I would also like to take the opportunity to thank Mr Brende for a relatively constructive cooperation in budgetary negotiations. However, when the representative Brende talks about the deviation between the proposal of the Progress Party for tax and tax arrangements versus what has now been adopted, I would like to remind you that it was not the Progress Party that promised all taxpayers not one penny in tax or fee increase next year through the VG. That's right. So if the Right Now is comfortable with the budget deal that exists, there's probably reason that more parties can be. But we didn't go out with ultimate demands, because we were aware that negotiations mean giving and taking. On the part of the Progress Party, it was essential that taxes and charges were zeroed so that no ordinary people would have an increased tax burden next year, and I really hope that the representative Burnde is satisfied with that. All right, let's cut. Yes, it's right that we cut in a number of areas that we think are less important, but it's wrong that the Progress Party cuts in education. On the contrary, the Progress Party is training because we believe it is a very important field of action. But we cut in some areas related to the education budgets, because we think it's time to streamline some administration around. And we cut into the school leisure system exactly the same way as the Right, because we believe that it's not an important part of the education offer in Norway. So we're in for every cut we've made in the budget because we think it's an unnecessary way to spend money, and because we need to redeploy money over the budget to strengthen other areas of action.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e654	The representative, Jensen, said that it might be possible to draw on the smiling band of the Progress Party's policy. I would have liked to, but the situation is that it is no longer possible, because unfortunately the Progress Party has had a decisive influence on the budget that the Storting will now adopt. It's absolutely correct, as the representative Børge Brende says, that the Advance Party is cutting nearly $1 billion for educational purposes, just to take one example, you cut $7 billion for agriculture, you cut $7 billion for municipalities and you cut $7 billion for unhelp. You can probably justify that, but the reality is that here we're not talking about shaving, here we're talking about cutting off the whole head. There is, of course, no realism in such a budget as the Progress Party puts forward. One of the most unrealistic things about what the Progress Party is now presenting is that one later on, as if one had a criminal policy that is linked. People are talking about strengthening the police and officers' seat, and they're talking about fighting crime now. Nobody disagrees with us about fighting crime. But what is the Progress Party doing? Thus, all the measures that can be expected to limit crime are being cut; child protection is being cut, schools are being cut, school leisure is being cut, kindergartens are being cut, all possible measures are being cut that could have contributed to the creation of safer and better growing conditions for children and young people in Norway. Then you want to strengthen the police and loner seats! However, it is not possible to strengthen the position of police and officers so much as to compensate for all the good actions that are taking place in the thousands of communities in Norway to get children who have come out a little wrong into a better course. Because that's actually the way to prevent crime over time. Filling the streets with police can be good and good. SV agrees that we also need to strengthen the police and officers' seat, we agree that we should have more police in Oslo, but we deeply and deeply disagree with the priority that the Progress Party is doing here, because it is the policy of the Progress Party that actually creates crime.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e661	First of all, I think there's reason to remind you that child protection is a municipal and not a state task, so to say that we kiss so drastically in child protection, I think it's a little bit to deal with. But then it's actually not that we're not interested in prevention work. On the contrary, we are also concerned about it, but when we are in a situation – as I also said in my post – where people are whipped down on the open street and where they can no longer walk safely on the street after the dawn of darkness, yes, then it doesn't take time to talk about preventive work and do what SV has done for years, spend the most time understanding in the hearts of the criminals. Then it must be done harder, and that is where the appropriations must come. Therefore, it is nice to observe that SV has now suddenly been concerned that more money should be allocated to the police. But to make an accusation that it is the policies of the Progress Party that breed violence, I will have asked myself that! Nor is it the case, as the representative Djupedal claims, that we hit the children's families with our scheme. On the contrary. And just the fact that we've now had the cash support, which can create the possibility for families of children to spend more time together, and if it's not preventive work, then I don't know what it is, because it's exactly where the core of a solid growth lies -- this is that children and parents have time to be together, instead of the children being housed in kindergartens or other institutions all day. It's association with parents that creates safe growing-up environments and a good ethics and morality in an up-and-coming youth environment. That's what we have to bet on, not municipal kindergartens and state governance of children's growing-up conditions. Therefore, the cash support has been important to us, and therefore we also prioritise the type of instruments that allow for more contact between children and parents.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e670	I think this has become a very useful debate. It always seems that the Progress Party has so much more money than all of us. They're giving 24 billion dollars in tax bills, while at the same time betting on defense, police and roads, and we never hear where the cuts are to be taken. Opera, says Siv Jensen. Yeah, there we might have 20 million. And then we only need 23,980 million. kr! We give priority to what is most important," says Siv Jensen. Yes, then we can read from the budget of the Progress Party what is not important: Child protection is not important, it is cut, the Labour Inspectorate, rental homes, disabled people cut by 100 million. kr, youth action in cities is cut by 5 million. kr, aid to lone carers who wish to take education is cut by 100 million. kr, housing aid, support to UN organisations are wiped out, nuclear safety in Eastern Europe, kindergartens and labour market measures. All these are areas that, according to the budget of the Progress Party, are not important. And it's important to make this visible, because I sometimes feel like it's not being taken very seriously. It will not be the big surprise that the Progress Party is going to wipe out support for the UN or cut housing or kindergartens, because it is not being taken seriously. But it is, after all, the second largest party of the Storting that proposes this, and if they had a majority, it would have been adopted, and it is those who are pulling the center government in that direction. In the central budget compromise, the Progress Party is also involved in cutting down 2100 sick homes compared to the retirement plan adopted by the Stortinget. Even the areas that they say are important are not given priority. My question is: does not the representative Jensen think that the Progress Party also has a responsibility to tell what is the reality of the Progress Party's policy, who is really affected, and not just talking about opera, aid and press support, but talking about all the core areas of our welfare state that would be cut if the Progress Party's policy were to be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e677	I fully agree that we have a responsibility to make what our budget looks like. That's why I also used quite a lot of my post to explain about some of the cuts. Then I explained in particular about the cuts that are of considerable size. It is clear that there are also a number of smaller cuts – it is also in the Labour Party budget – to find funding for the tasks and purposes that are important. But it's wrong when the representative Giske claims that there will be 2 100 fewer sick homes for next year because of the budget agreement. It's de facto error. What's right is that you want the progress of home development to go as planned. However, because a number of municipalities in Norway have asked for an opportunity to draw this out for a further two years because they have difficulties with their own economy, the Progress Party does not believe that there is an unreasonable response to those municipalities that are struggling financially. It's actually the best way to ensure progress for the development of hospitals, and it should also be in the interests of the Workers' Party that we got it done. Nor is it the case that we have so much more money than anyone else. We have exactly the same amount of money at our disposal to deal with the state budget, as the Labour Party has, but we choose to prioritise differently. And we have, as I said, never concealed that we cut in a number of areas to give priority to others. But it has to be a little motivating to sit and deal with a budget where you can never be extra in those areas that we're all talking about in the election campaign. I have heard the Workers' Party throughout the election campaign before the election talk about health and the elderly first. When do we see the Workers' Party donating money to health and the elderly? It's very rare. And then it's about running from their election vows right after the election is over, and that's at least not fair policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e684	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e687	For the third time, a budgetary settlement has now been concluded between the Centre Parties, the Advance Party and the Right. At least the government's block independence is a matter of course, and gradually there has also become more right-wing policy on what is adopted, at least in economic policy. It's just in this area, in the economy, in practice impossible for a government to believe it can go side to side. Then it leaves an impression of a total lack of course. This in itself is detrimental to the confidence in the Norwegian economy. Predictability and a certain minimum of stability are important in economic policy. This is especially true in a small but open economy like the Norwegian one. The Bondevik Government, despite the conciliation now, still has a very weak parliamentary basis, but can itself, if it so wishes, create greater predictability in the economy by continuing cooperation with the Right and the Advance Party. The government does not become bourgeois in this way, but at least it would help to eliminate the impression of root and chaos in economic and budgetary policies. In the long term, it can also help to strengthen confidence in the Norwegian economy, thus reducing the burden on the majority of people, including drug users. the high interest rates. The Bondevik Government has, as I was about to say, a very weak parliamentary basis and has not even wanted to enter into long-term agreements with any blocs or parties in the Stortinget. It has thus provided itself with the uncertainty with which it still has to live. That is why the Government must also address a number of issues to be voted on by the majority of the Grand Duchy, with which the Bondevik Government obviously lives, not least in European policy. It may be a survival strategy for the Government, but it gives a total of little overall, little long-term and economical vision of policy. Through the agreement with the Right and the Advance Party, the budget as a whole has become better adapted to the challenges facing the Norwegian economy. It is better suited to reduce interest rates and avoid lasting inflation in Norway than in our competitors. The business cycle tax is not adopted and the anti-business proposals contained in the original budget of the Bondevik government have been removed. Hopefully, then, we will avoid increasing the initial decline in the Norwegian economy in 1999. It is also good that most people do not get increased taxes and taxes at the top of the interest rates, and that people do not get shorter vacations, as the Bondevik government originally suggested. Ideally, the Right would go further and give the families and businesses tax relief in today's situation. But the solution we have now been given is to live with, and we meet at some point of zero, which also makes the budget better suited to solving problems in the Norwegian economy. Only the tax increases proposed by the Bondevik government would give a price increase of approx. 1⁄2 pst. Now it's not adopted, it's a good basis for, among other things. a reasonable, moderate salary settlement next year. The growth of public expenditure will be lower than proposed by the Bondevik Government. It's in line with Right's policy. We would have an even lower growth on the cost side, but it goes in the right direction. The low oil prices we are now seeing show how important it is to take care of the value creation in mainland Norway. In fact, this is what will ensure a rich Norway even in the future, after we have used up the oil and gas wealth on the base. The budget that is now being adopted is somewhat less restrictive than the draft budget of the Right. At the same time, however, the rigour has been achieved in a much better way than in the original Government proposal. This means that tax increases are gone and public expenditure growth is reduced. That is why I believe that the budget as a whole is sound. But the budget that will now be adopted also has clear weaknesses. The road effort in the 1999 state budget is not good enough. It is poor rural policy, and it is bad industrial policy that no more effort is being made on efficient infrastructure across the country. Research, development and training efforts are also lagging behind in relation to what would have been desirable. It is important in this area both to develop public efforts in cooperation with enterprises and to stimulate private research and development efforts. That's the part that's going on in the companies. Here, Norway is located further away from other countries than in the public sector. This is the background to the joint proposal promoted by the Workers' Party and the Right in the vote, which obliges the Government to explore both a possible new financial incentive scheme for the enterprises and a proposal for a possible public fund for research within the public institutions. These are, of course, largely in cooperation with the companies, and I see these two proposals in the context. There is little doubt that there is a great deal of uncertainty about future economic developments today. The economists, the experts, disagree more with each other than for a long time. It is therefore important to follow developments closely in the future and to make necessary adjustments throughout the year if necessary. I would warn against believing that you can now only wait until the Norwegian economy has been cooled down, and then again to increase public spending. The long-term considerations suggest that we have to show moderation in any case. The alternative is actually that we can't pay people the pensions they've been promised in the decades to come. The future of democracy and possible fund-raising of supplementary pensions are the theme of the Moland Committee, which this summer presented its position, which is now being consulted. I would urge the Government to give priority to the work on these long-term issues, which are both about the security of pensions, which people are particularly concerned about, and how capital formation will work in Norway in the future. And good Norwegian capital formation is a prerequisite for value creation to have something to rely on even after the oil age is over. My main criticism of the Bondevik government is the total lack of strategy for the creation of value, conversion and renewal of Norway, which I think is the policy of the Government. In an increasingly globalised economy, Norway has a government with no strategy and vision for international and European cooperation. Of course, as the government's representatives so often do, one can complain that the market and capital take a lot of control both nationally and internationally. But in Europe, and in the EU, there are also the same challenges, and in these countries – EU countries – cooperation is further developed both in the economic and political spheres, precisely in order to meet the free movement of capital and the challenges it has faced politicians. Here Norway stands on the sideline and has a government that without particular enthusiasm implements the policies of the majority of population. There is some background that the Right Party and the Labour Party are united on a proposal that imposes a more active European policy on the Government, both in terms of deepening and possibly extending the EEA Agreement and in terms of relations with the new euro area cooperation. I point out that, among other things, important business organisations in an address to the Government have asked for a more active policy to ensure the Norwegian krone, Norwegian currency policy, in the shadow of the new large economic and monetary union established from 1 January. This is an obligation for the Government to take seriously. This really applies to the safety of both households and enterprises in Norway. I also miss the Government's vision for the future creation of the value of mainland Norway. The Bondevik Government is committed to dealing with oil policy and is pleased to see lower levels of investment in the oil sector. There is no sustainable strategy in itself to strengthen the value creation of mainland Norway and thus make us less oil dependent. This requires a much stronger focus on research, higher education and more competitive conditions for investment in Norway. The government should take the challenges from among others. The NHO, which asked for an independent analysis of Norway as an investment country compared to developments in other countries. The large oil revenues of the 1990s actually mask some serious problems, namely that cost competitiveness is soon as poor as it was at the beginning of the 1990s. Only in the last year it has become approx. 11,000 fewer employees in competitive enterprises in Norway. For its part, the right is prepared to enter into cooperation with other parties on a case-by-case basis on all proposals that can strengthen value creation and hence future security in Norway. In conclusion, I address the proposals that have been made by the Right, alone or with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e729	Per-Kristian Foss has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e733	The right has focused on pursuing a responsible policy. The importance of budgetary rigour is therefore underlined over and over again, not only by Per-Christian Foss, but also by Right-leader Jan Petersen. In the common position of the centre lot, the mixed item is significantly reduced, while a substantial part of the increased expenditure resulting from the additional proposals for the harvest must be covered there. This kind of coverage was very critical to the Right in the financial position. What, then, is the reason why the Right not only slips on the balance sheet through its budgetary settlement with the Government, but also creates a cover-up through the miscellaneous item, which the party in the financial position has referred to as – yes – unprofessional? The budgetary settlement currently in place will require more money in the revised national budget. How can the Right accept such a budgetary policy when the external item is initially severely reduced? And will the Right to Spring demand that the expenditure commitments be covered in the budget agreement then in a more sound way?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e740	Yes, I can confirm that the Right is continuously working for more responsible containment. This is true in relation to all governments, because I have to say that this criticism we are now focusing on cutting at the stock exchange, because it is not entirely new. Cutting at the crossroads should be accompanied by suggestions that show how to do it and why you want to do it. We need that, but we have the Government's assurance that it will be particularly critical for supplementary appropriations, because the external item is now reduced. It is stated in a letter from the Minister of Finance, and I stress that. I hang it above my desk, so we will remember it as from 1 January and beyond. It could be useful. But I also have to say that I think the Workers' Party should now be a little cautious about doing – excuse the expression – too sacred to the skin, because once they themselves have been in the government position and made compromises with the center parties, they have covered increased expenses, for example. consumption of capital. At the 1996 conciliation – I still have it on my desk, it is not directly above, but it is easily accessible, including in the debate here – one covered by taking 1.6 billion from funds in various state businesses, i.e. pure wealth-tapping, to finance increased consumption. We have not heard that has been among the things of the then finance minister, the current stork representative Stoltenberg, has boasted of in retrospect, and I understand that. I think we've come a very long way, I, because we've actually got a center facility to manage to tighten up approx. NOK 8 billion without increasing taxes and taxes. Yes, the tax burden is even lightened, if not many hundreds of millions, but at least it's a relief. A few weeks ago, it would be a political wonder, but the most important thing is that it also works well in the economy. For tightening up without increasing taxes and taxes, it works better than tightening up with increased taxes and taxes, because it also brings with it increased inflation and contributes to more expensive wage-fixing and triggering an unfortunate spiral.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e749	For several years, the right has been marked as a party that primarily wants tax reductions for those who serve the best. We see this clearly in the Right's draft budget, where the ceiling for the maximum tax element has been proposed to be raised, while the minimum deductions and deductions have been reduced in relation to the Government's proposal, which results in lower incomes. This confirms that the right is primarily a high-income party. For the Progress Party, a reduction in taxes and charges is very important. But for the Progress Party, it is also important that all taxpayers be allowed to participate in a reduction in taxes, not just those who serve the best. The Progress Party supports the Government’s proposal for a higher entry point and a lower rate in the top tax than today, but the Progress Party, in contrast to the Right, wants to increase the class deduction so that all taxpayers are allowed to participate in a reduction in taxes. And my question to the representative Foss and Right is: why does the Right want those with the lowest income not to participate in a reduction in taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e756	I don't know what the representative Svendsen has read, but it can't be the Right Alternative State Budget at least, because what he's asking about now is ripping off. It's turned completely on its head. It is so twisted in his head that the representative is now standing and attacking the Right too little minimum deduction, but he himself is voting for an even smaller minimum deduction in what is now likely to be adopted. So that's one way to turn things upside down. Then I also have to say that it's a little funny to be attacked by a representative of the Progress Party because we're actually giving tax relief all over the line. In our arrangement, we give tax relief to all income groups. But if you're going to take the Advance Party seriously -- at least from the old days -- it's like if you want to do something about the progress in the tax system, you have to do something about the progress. And then it will mean that those who pay the most tax, by a tax relief, will also get the most tax reductions. Actually, it's like that. And that's the way it is in the arrangement of the Progress Party, too, so I don't understand where this misunderstanding comes from. Then I also want to say that starting to talk about that groups with income of 250000 kroner – 275 000 kroner would be high income groups, is a very clever observation, to put it this way. It actually means that the representative Svendsen characterizes people with education who start in the public sector and perhaps get something above average in the first few years, but who in their lives also have to pay off study debts, like being among the rich. It is the life-cycle income that is crucial, and it is important that we gradually also provide those groups that have paid long-term education, have high student loans and high housing debts, opportunities to achieve a standard of living that is in line with those of others. And then you have to give some relief to the tax also for these groups.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e765	The right to vote and to state at a higher level that the provision of a good framework for business, the fact that value creation is evenly distributed, and that we also have business development throughout the country, are important. And we can pretty much agree to that. But not all instruments are some of us with Right or Right some of us in the center party in are likely to promote a business development across the country. Because we in the Centre Party thought it important that we set up, through the Municipal Enterprise Fund and through the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund, schemes that are both general and focus on regional policy. These measures are often produced by the Right as a clumsy response in spite of the fact that the Right’s representatives around the board see this as an important contribution to promoting economic development. We know, of course, that for those who drive business development in the districts, it is about sharing the risk. Local investors and local banks regard the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund as a useful contributor to the fissure layer needed to create new business development also in District Norway. My question to the representative Foss is: does he not see the need for the Storting to support measures that right-wing representatives around the district see as very useful?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e774	Yes, I am listening to Right-wing representatives around the country who are actively engaged in business development, both because they are politicians and because they are active in business itself. And they give me one clear message: we don't need any more funds. We need better working conditions, and we need better communication. It's unique all over the country. The effort on roads may be the greatest disappointment this government has ever faced. We were together with the centre parties before the rollover election last year to focus on the highest option in the road map, Norwegian road and road traffic plan. But not many months had passed before everything had disappeared, and the road strike was gone. Now they're even under the Workers' Party – they do in themselves, but it's not that important in this context. The important thing is what is adopted. It's the greatest disappointment, which I also touched on in my post. What we are also told by those who work in the field of industrial development and industries is that the framework conditions must be steady and better. Then I have to say that I would like to challenge the centre parties to take the message from small businesses seriously, namely to bring down the wealth tax, the strange wealth tax that affects family-owned Norwegian companies; not foreigners, not large corporations in practice, but the small ones. And then I have to say that I also believe that many central party politicians are disappointed with the central party in terms of corporate tax, because taking company tax away from the municipalities is not an incentive for municipal politicians to invest more in business development. This is going in the wrong direction, and I'm disappointed that the Center Party is in this direction. I hope that now there might be a turnaround in the Center Party back to the old one, something more soberingly commercialized attitude, with more faith in businesses than belief in funds and public advisors.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e783	First, I would like to express my delight in supporting the adjusted budget proposal from the centre party. The representative Foss pointed out in his statement that the Government had a weak parliamentary basis with its 42 representatives on the Stortinget. But despite the fact that we have a minority government, we've got an impact on important issues. We have joined in cash support, increased minimum pension, the Value Commission has been created, important health reforms in psychiatry and cancer care and debt plan for developing countries have been adopted. Action plan for the suppression of choice, various action plans to reduce alcohol consumption, disability measures, action plan for small and medium-sized enterprises, action plan on nutrition technology and action plan on racism and discrimination have been promoted. This shows that we have an offensive government that stands on too many good things. The adjusted budget proposal prioritises, inter alia: health, childcare, business, districts and justice. I am pleased that the cash support will now be escalated from January to apply to both 1-year-olds and 2-year-olds. The labor party has had an ideological wedge against cash shocks. On the right, on the other hand, we have joined in and fought for cash support, and we in the Christian People's Party are happy for that. It provides an extended option for families with children: to choose between nursery or cash support. And, of course, the goal of full child care is firm. Cash support will give an option that should have been given too many, many years ago. I'm glad it's now becoming a reality. There will be no tax incentives. It's important that there's a tight budget to get interest down. It'll benefit everyone. But in its alternative budget, does the Right have a tax bill of $2.3 billion, and is it the right thing to prioritize at a time when there are so many unsolved tasks? Press support has been slightly reduced in the adjusted budget line. Right proposed to remove the full 250 million press support. kr. Wouldn't there have dramatic consequences for the newspaper shortage?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e796	The cut in the press support is a very modest part of the overall cut-off amount, but it is likely that the press will receive proper attention. It's actually the way I share the main point of view that people have to pay for what they buy, whether they buy one or the other newspaper. I think that there are relatively worrying aspects of development when it is up to politicians to weigh which newspaper to receive support or not receive support, as we have seen some examples of. But to Molvær Grimstad's main score, I just have to say that I also share the joy that we have implemented the cash support agreement, and that it is even continued with commitment between the five parties also with a view to the budget in 2000. Because it is not just to adopt a cash support, you also have to pay for it. That's one of the things. The discussions on the state budget have now focused not only on the willingness to declare a cash support but also on the willingness to bring it into line with an overall budget. The difference between us and the government parties is that the government parties will distribute cash support and then take parts of it back from the same families through tax and tax increases and through electricity charge increases, while we believe that it is possible to fit it into a budget that does not take the money back again. We've done that, and I'm very pleased with that. You could call it a connection to a center-aligned platform, but then there'll be speech. But for the sake of friendship, leave it alone. I also enjoy a lot of what you have done in the area of psychiatry and action plans for different areas. The initiative on the care of the elderly did not mention the representative — it was adopted in the previous period. Very much of this has been adopted almost unanimously in the Storting. There's nothing that characterizes the center government. What characterizes it is very small. What distinguishes it is very little boldness, very short-sightedness, that it is very administratively oriented from day to day without long-term visions. I requested that in my main post, and I record that in no lines so far from the center parties have addressed this challenge. It confirms a lot in many ways.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e805	It is to a large extent commendable that the representative of Per-Kristian Foss in his statement does not attempt to smooth over what the Right sees as weaknesses in the budget that will be adopted once later today. It's an old mark on the Right that they act with responsibility and reliability in economic policy, at least it's always been one of the Right's taboos. When you read the comments in the financial position of the 1999 budget, it looks as if the Right is still on this line of responsibility. The right-hand side even says in its remarks that an even stronger tightening could have been desirable than what was actually in the national budget, i.e. the proposal where the curtailment was NOK 9 billion, in order to dampen activity and ensure that interest rates go down. The right has entered into a budget compromise with the central government for two consecutive years. Last year, the combination of the central government's promises and the Right's tax policy became quite expensive. At that time, about DKK 5 billion had to be recovered from the oil fund to finance the tax relief, and this year too, it has been necessary to do a little of the same exercise in order to achieve goals — but not correctly to the same extent. The representative Foss said in a previous reply that the Right was relieved that the central government's proposal for increased taxes and taxes is not now being adopted. Does this mean that in the future too, the Right is willing to obtain that kind of relief by actually raising additional money from what is our children's savings account for the future? Or, in other words, is the Right willing to make even more dependent on oil revenue through future budgetary compromises, despite the fact that the Right in its political objectives says the opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e814	When I expect Hill-Marta Solberg to take a line, I always equip myself with the script for Thorbjørn Jagland from the national meeting, because it kind of gives stability and balance. I think, however, that the praise to the Right that we have always been responsible is not completely up-to-date with the script, because here it says ‘s’, and even with a view to the future – but it was during the National Assembly of the Workers’ Party. In fact, we've always stressed that it has to be given and taken together, and it's true, as Hill-Marta Solberg says, that there are parts of the adjusted center structure that are now adopted with our support, which we don't like. We would have preferred to avoid slipping on the balance by NOK 1.3 billion, but I must also say that the Workers' Party there should go a little quietly in the doors, for there are parts of their own arrangement that bear the mark of unrealism. And the Ministry of Finance's letter makes it very clear that making restrictions in December on the taxation of the year that is almost over is at the limit of not being possible. At least it's an unprofessional way of treating business. Then you could say that there are small adjustments, they're living with, but here you're talking from the Labour Party about changing the entire tax system for an industry, and doing it in December with effect for the previous 11 months, including the month you're in the middle of. It can also be discussed how real the Workers' Party's containment is in other areas. So the sum total has to be said that the Workers' Party should be happy that their own budget was not subject to major analyses, because in practice there is a tightening effect on the basis of the central government in the adjusted structure. I also think that you should be a little careful about boasting too much of long-term interest in value creation in actually punishing the same business life with new taxes on sharing model and wealth tax.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e825	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e829	The purpose of the 1999 government budget is to ensure the public common good and to reduce the growth of the Norwegian economy through fiscal policy, in order to provide the basis for lower interest rates and moderate price and wage growth. Despite a tight budget, there is room for important tasks when it comes to distribution, which has much to say for everyone's well-being. I can briefly mention increasing efforts in the health and care sector through the plans of the Government, increasing efforts in cancer and psychiatry treatment and following-up of hospital equipment plans. Regional and industrial policies are prioritised by increasing the number of women in regional and food research. The framework of the State Enterprise and Regional Development Funds through basic funding, low-risk loans and district-right risk loans has been extended, and the agricultural bank and the Husbank have expanded their framework. The exemption from the investment tax for agriculture and the reduction of inheritance tax and the document fee for ownership changes in family holdings are easy. Children’s families have been given greater freedom of choice through the introduction of cash support also for 2 year-olds from 1 January 1999 and the granting of childcare facilities has increased with a view to reaching the target of needs coverage in 2000. It has been the rule more than the exception in recent years that we have had varying minority governments. The situation is similar to that of the last ten years. The country has a minority government formed by the three central parties, after the minority government of Thorbjørn Jagland voluntarily resigned from government responsibility. With this in mind, all the party in the Storting must feel responsible for finding good solutions to the issues the Government is presenting to the Storing of Decision. This is a joint responsibility all the parties have on behalf of those we are chosen to rule for. A particular responsibility lies with the government party to give the opposition a place in the solutions chosen, so that those who stand behind a decision can recognize their views and feel that one has an impact by taking political responsibility. The Centre Party, through its budgetary work, has shown the necessary willingness to cooperate and, together with a negotiating party here on the Stortinget, has found the solutions required by the situation. A government with a narrow parliamentary base in Stortinget and a corresponding wide opposition must count on far greater retaliation from more hands than a government based on a broader basis. This is a minority government's normal everyday life and creation, but also try to gain strength from a minority government. The government's budget has a global revenue framework of approximately NOK 560 billion. In the modified center layout, parts of this frame have been reduced by 4 billion kroner. Other expenses have increased by just over $2 billion. These changes are mainly covered by reduced permissions in other areas, so that the balance appears with a tightening close to NOK 8 billion. This is in the light of the economic situation we see in 1999, a defensive approach. The strong increase in interest rates has led to a dampening of growth in the construction sector. Several major national construction projects have been completed. Transposition of dwellings has been reduced. This creates, in addition to the international recession, something uncertain about the estimates for the development of the construction sector. Therefore, after an overall assessment, the centre will enter into force in order to avoid the imposition of cyclical charges on the construction sector for 1999. The level of activity in mainland Norway also depends on the level of oil price to be achieved in 1999. Oil companies see a low oil price for a time to come, which in turn means reduced investment. With these fluctuations, it is important that the Government constantly assess the situation and especially in the yard industry, and, if possible, put in place measures to address the inequality such as: is between the yards in the different countries. The adjusted central budget is based on the government’s priorities of health and care policies, regional and district policies, business and small family businesses and families with children. With a reduction of approximately DKK 8 billion, the budget will facilitate moderate price and salary developments and lower interest rates. I would like to remind you that a reduction of about $8 billion is not easy without one or more of the budgets. The fact that the burdens are reasonably distributed between the public, the households and the business community shows that we have the power to take care of a distribution profile that we can become aware of.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e861	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e864	The representative Holte mentioned at the end of his statement that there was a basis for moderate wage and cost developments and that it should be able to provide lower interest rates. The representative spoke on the same question in the financial debate last year, i.e. for approx. A year ago, and then he said, ‘The adjusted budget structure of the centre party is not the way the Labour Party tries to produce it, a political experiment that would threaten a moderate wage growth, weaken our competitiveness and make it difficult to maintain a stable krone price.’ – So the representative Holte said about the budget for this year, and in all areas the predictions were wrong. In spite of this, Holte is not least trying to present it as if it were not at least the budget that was adopted at that time – and that was broken by DKK 5 billion in relation to the draft budget proposed by the Workers' Party last year – which is responsible for the rise in interest rates. It's everybody else's fault. It's because of international economic trends, and they know we're affected. It's because of the oil price, and we know it's affecting us. But according to the government and government parties, the government has no responsibility for the rise in interest rates because the budget was too extensive this year. But now the government claims that if we get a tightening – which they initially said would be NOK 9 billion, but which is now well below NOK 8 billion – then the interest will go down. Then my question about the representative Holte can explain how around the world it can be when the government's budget for this year has not contributed to the interest rate increase we've been given, that when we're making a tighter budget for this year, it will mean something to lower interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e876	What is basically missing in Dag Terje Andersen's speech was, of course, the confirmation that Dag Terje Andersen and the Workers' Party last year saw Asia crisis, the oil price fall and, in general, most of what happened in the international economy, as the Workers' Party's leader Thorbjørn Jagland in his federal administration said was a danger signal that would clearly come to the top of everything else and as one did not suggest. That's why it seems a little weird that a footstep is going all the way to finding a quote that might be appropriate to explain a situation, a situation where the Labour Party has been totally absent when it's due to fight matters through the budgetary process that one is for. This Government has taken responsibility. This government has submitted a tight budget. And as I said in my post, a tight budget of $8 billion will work so that someone happens. We are responsible for that. What is also important is that we have a government party in Stortinget that is able to clarify through cooperation. Only it is important to create the stability that the economy needs and that is the best thing for the country. I would have liked the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, to have shown a greater interest through the Labour Party, but this is actually the Labour Party itself that has to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e887	The centre party has been working for a long time to be seen as a district party. Looking at the results of the last elections and the polls out in District Norway, it is clear that the elected representatives of the Central Party are largely local government, county councils and Storting, who still believe that the Central Party is a district party. What characterizes a district? Well, it's essentially distances, distances to the center and distances to the markets. And the disadvantages of living and establishing themselves in the districts are the costs of these distances, the costs of sending products to the market and the costs of getting to and from a centre. The centre party has always been a driver to increase the charges that make distance travel costs high, and one last greeting to the districts is to remove the diesel tax exemption for tourist buses, which makes it more expensive for bus tourists to leave in the district of Norway. My question to the representative of the Central Party is: What advanced logical thinking lies behind the fact that a district party, which the Central Party wants to be, will reinforce the disadvantages of living and living in the districts by increasing the fees?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e894	It's a correct view Kenneth Svendsen has made, that the Center Party is an important party for the districts and district industries and for those who are busy creating nutrition and living, building and building in our towns. I am therefore pleased that the Progress Party now, at the end of the government budget management process, will subsidiaryly join in the proposals made by this government with regard to district policy. I would like to add that not so much effort has been made in this decade to combat depopulation, stimulate economic activity and make it conditional on those who want to build and live in the districts. It's just to point out the extended framework of the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund, that we are now taking away the investment fee for key primary industries and reducing their costs, and that we are working to provide our municipalities with the resources needed to maintain the service provision that is important in the districts. Of course, Kenneth Svendsen is best able to present them when it comes to measures that the Progress Party is in charge of in district policy. I'm not going to take from Kenneth Svendsen the honor of representing the lot that accounts for essentially reduced taxes and taxes, but it's now time that in order for there to be a certain basis for paying taxes and taxes in the districts, the districts must have people, and these must have a income base. It is important for us to stimulate that those who live in the district will see themselves tending to stay there still. I think there's a little bit of a difference between our and the Progress Party's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e901	The representative, Jørgen Holte, said in his speech that a government with a narrow parliamentary basis in Stortinget and a similar broad opposition must count on far greater resistance than a government with a broader basis. The central party leader Anne Enger Lahnstein is the one in the government and the one in the central party who has eagerly underlined the block independence of the Bondevik government, independence from the socialist and the bourgeois bloc of politics. One result of such independent block thinking was that the government of Bondevik provided a budget that they knew would not be accepted either by either the right side or the left side. After the turbulent budgetary procedure now, the Centre Party must have realised that the block dependency is parked on the sideline. It is an irrevocable fact when Bondevik has three times sought support for his financial situation at the Right and the Advance Party. The political landscape has been substantially changed in the autumn. Head of the Central Party Anne Enger Lahnstein said to Dagens Næringsliv last Thursday: «- When I notice that the press and others will now try again to tie us to a mast attached to a block, it is important for me to say: let's forget the blocks.» The chaos and mess that have been around the budget in the autumn cannot be repeated. The centre of the Right has throughout the harvest been that what is the right economy for the country is also right for the Right: primarily tax- and tax-free, subsidiary zero in tax increases. But I see and hear that the leaders of the Senterung and several of the county leaders are comforted by the fact that the budget agreement only applies next year. Three budgetary settlements out of three are possible with the right. Every time, the Government has hoped to reach an agreement with the Workers' Party. Is the Center Party still hoping for it at the next crossroads? In that case, it will be pretending that the dream of independence is still alive. It is bad to have to ask such a nice man as Jørgen Holte this question: Has this year's budget fart got the centre parties and, in particular, the centre party to understand that so-called block independence for a government with 42 mandates in Stortinget, is not only a political idea, but also a gambling game with the country's economy?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e915	The representative, Kjellaug Nakkim, raised an important theme that Stortinget might more often take inwards. It's the relationship with minority governments, which, as I said in my main post, has been the rule more than the exception in the last ten years -- we don't have to go back any further. And a minority government must, of course, function in this way in relation to the parties that are on the Storting, that it seeks cooperation, seeks for good solutions, so that the Government's policy is recognised. The Central Party has shown its willingness to negotiate through the budgetary process, they have shown its negotiating ability, and they have shown their willingness to change the government's budget, by acting just as the Labour Party, as it did in minority government, did in the previous period, when they had to go to the Stortingen to get support for their policies. So Kjellaug Nakkim talked about the bypass "block independence," and one has to choose a page. I have recorded that with ‘block independence’ it is not only the Centre Party and the Centre Party that have discovered. In fact, at the last national meeting in the Labour Party, it was from that point of view also emphasizing that now one could imagine working together against those who traditionally stood in the other camp of the Block Policy. It must indicate that there are more than us who now see the political landscape, and I actually believe that the Right comes after.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e924	The representative Holte now said in his reply that it was a guideline for the Center Party to act in the government as the Workers' Party had done, i.e. they could swing here and there. Then I have to ask: does the representative Holte not know that we have now implemented a budgetary system that makes this impossible, and can the representative Holte describe the content of the agreements concluded with the Progress Party and the Right in such a way that it is likely that it will be possible to find any other settlement partners at the next intersection? It's not that easy for us to see, but it would be very nice if the Center Party could now clarify once and for all that they see this opening, that they want to use it. So Holte says the Center Party maintains services in the municipal sector. Then I have to ask if the representative Holte does not know that at least NOK 4 billion is missing in the municipal sector to maintain the services. And what happens when we pay attention to health and care, as the government has done, and as the majority wants, is that the municipal sector must cut systematically on children and young people and on the school sector, because the money is not earmarked the same way. Then I have to ask if this is a good central party policy. Is this crazy politics, or is it so that the Center Party now bends for everything that comes, no matter what it is, and just lets it happen, because they are more happy in the government position than they are in all the heart things they stood for before the previous election?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e931	I registered through the article to Karin Andersen that one was a little worried that SV had no impact on the solutions chosen here in Stortinget. If SV wanted to report through the bodies that have given a signal about how they view this government, it is clear that there could in itself be indications as to how we would perceive SV here in Stortinget. But what SV's national government meeting has said, and which is described as the most important thing for SV, is to wind up this government and insert that the representative Thorbjørn Jagland and the Labour Party, who in the vote is in law with Right when it comes to Union policy, which SV must be against. There was no clear signal that SV had other objectives and opinions of this government than that it should be discontinued as soon as possible. This central government stands as the defender of a local economy that is in line with the municipal economic proposition that the Stortinget agreed to here in ours, and that we also believe that SV is behind it. We have even managed to defend the local economy in spite of the fact that we have cooperated on a subsidiary solution with a party that has submitted much less to the municipalities. But this is about respect for each other, where we've made it clear that the local economy is important for us to take care of through the budgetary process that we've had in the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e936	After the government has presented various advice and debate arrangements and a lot of rootwork, there is now finally a revision of the revision. And so the Center Party chose the Advance Party as its close partner. How does this harmonize with the verbal care of the Central Party for the weakest in our society? The working party has fought to reduce unemployment and has succeeded in doing so. Now we see that unemployment is going up again. Verbally, the Centre Party has talked about local economy and promised more money and a new course. So anyway, the Center Party chooses to cooperate with the Advance Party. Budgetary constraints and reduced labour market measures will affect those who need the most, namely immigrants, young people and the long-term unemployed, precisely those groups on which the Central Party has been involved. Now I have registered that the Center Party has learned a lesson: the Workers' Party is guilty, it is the Workers' Party that has pushed the poor Center Party into the company of the Progress Party. Now I'm going to give the Central Party's fiscal spokesman the chance to say what the Central Party really wants, i.e. what is the Central Party's independent policy. Does the Centre really want to punish those children and families who need Community solutions? Does the Central Party think it is right that the elderly reform be postponed and that the children's well-being be sacrificed for cash support to adults for the Central Party to continue in the Government? What about the Senter Party's conscience today?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e951	To the last: Thank you, very well! The centre here in Stortinget has chosen to find good solutions also in the budget of the parties that are negotiable. Then, of course, we've met a party here in Stortinget that's not negotiable, which is on a case to lock itself in, and then on other things to zero out. We can't do that much. There are choices that the other party takes. Being solution oriented is not something we can force the Labour Party to. When they choose the situation to be outside, without having an impact, yes, it's the Workers' Party's choice and nothing we can force anyone to do. So the representative chose to come up with some suggestions of some wretched representation, to which we have witnessed from the largest opposition party in the fall. When it relates to the municipal scheme, it is consistent with what the Workers' Party and the Centre were all about in the context of the municipal economic proposition. There are important measures to maintain Community goods, which are also a wish from the Centre Party. When we choose to extend the elderly effort, it's because municipalities have said that it's likely that one will be able to build older homes for the price that's agreed, and not the price that a tight labour market imposes. I thought it was very interesting to register the rest of the Labour Party now has for the elderly. In fact, I think back to the mid-1980s, when there was a certain working party that promised one another to all the elderly. I don't know how far it came before the Workers' Party threw cards last fall.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e962	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e965	The game about the state budget and who will sit in the government offices is closed for this time. It has clarified at least one aspect: there is no independent center. For the third time in three possible trials, the Government has sought support from the right parties. So the so-called central government is no longer a central government, but a bourgeois government, supported by two right parties. And not only do the right hand parts have their hands on the steering wheel, they also have the driver's seat. The five bourgeois parties have concluded an agreement which will even apply to the revision of the budget for the spring, which may well mean that it will be this alliance that will be held out throughout the enlargement period. And what's the situation? The current government no longer has any political reason to sit, other than that it will sit — of course — and that is in itself a reason. We have a government that doesn't defend or believe in its own policies, and to the extent that you have ambitions to pursue your own policies, you don't get it. And perhaps most importantly, we have a government that has abandoned the policy of choice. What are we going to do with such a government? The truth is that there is more right-wing policy in the budget that will now be adopted than the Right and Advance Party would have done if they had been in government themselves. Sitting on grace from two right parties must be more than a paradox for a government chosen to combat the same parties. And think that's among other things. The centre batch that now exerts influence on the right, e.g. in the telecommunications policy! In the previous period, the Senterpartiet together with RV stood in this room, and now it is the same party that is to privatise Telenor, sell away Arcus and create a limited liability company of the Kommunalbanken – thus reducing the influence of the elected representatives in these companies. That the roads of politics are unthinkable, is indeed correct, but to eat not only camels, but entire caravans of camels, it would probably have believed in this government. And think it's this government that's depriving the municipalities of $4.5 billion! It's this government that cuts 250 million. in kindergartens and the school leisure system. And it's this government that increases the proportions of municipalities and hospitals by more than NOK 2 billion. Apart from the game that has totally dominated the political agenda, the only theme of the harvest has been the extent of the cuts to be made in public budgets, allegedly in order to get interest downwards. The draft budget has had a magic margin of DKK 9 billion, which has now moved to NOK 7.8 billion, but apart from that, the budget has been received with a yeast on the stock exchange. The interest rate is the same, and the interest rate has not increased. Of this we can draw at least one logical conclusion: the theory is wrong. The theory that major budgetary constraints would automatically result in lower interest rates is blue-eyed and one-tracked — in short, wrong. There are at least two other reasons, which are at least equally important, for us to have a record high level of interest rates in Norway. One is that we have a record low oil price. We could have done something about it if Norway had taken the initiative to reduce the rate of oil extraction. And secondly, we have a weak government that has led us into the chaos we now see. It is striking that fiscal politicians at Stortinget from almost all camps have failed or been led by the collective crisis understanding that has shaped Norwegian policy in the autumn. We have freedom of action if we want to make use of it. Fortunately, Norwegian companies are doing well and have huge profits this year, and we have government finances that are bottom-bound. We have bigger profits in government finances than any other comparable country, despite the low oil price. SV is the only party that has not been hit by the collective crisis psychologist who has hit this house. Norway has a government crisis, but it has been going on since the elections, so there is nothing new. SV wants to use the freedom of action we have to help solve three key issues in society where the civil government is going in the wrong direction. Most importantly, we will defend the common good, through a public consumption that ensures that municipalities are given the opportunity to invest in school, to invest in the school leisure system, to bet on kindergartens, to bet on the care of the elderly – which means to bet on the welfare production where welfare production is going to take place, i.e. in the many communities. In total, SV wants to contribute to the municipalities getting more than 7 billion kroner for further welfare production, so that we can solve the many big problems we have in front of us. Unfortunately, with the Government's support, the right parties are going in the wrong direction. It reduces the economy of municipalities and reduces the autonomy of municipalities. Six rapporteurs from Central Norway, from my county, the South Trondelag, wrote in a letter to the Financial Committee: The situation we are experiencing has an unreal impact. We have not realized that the majority of the population wants the well-being offer, which is often built through the 1990s, to be allowed to wetter. They also write that it would have been easier to relate to this if it was an explicit objective. And that's what happens. We know the result. As stated in the communication from the six rapporteurs on who is hit by the cuts in the municipal sector: essentially the children and the elderly are affected, the rapporteurs write to the Committee on Finance. SV wants to take care of the common good, in particular the opportunity to ensure that we get a good school that we are proud of. Commune-Norway is facing a massive school drop-out, where cross-border schools in very many municipalities will now be closed down. In addition, in many schools we have an indoor climate that we are not proud of, and that makes many of the parents take their kids out of school and go to school strike. From 1 January of this year, the new regulation on indoor climate in schools and kindergartens shall enter into force. This will mean that many, many schools and many, many municipalities will not have the finances to satisfy a completely basic demand that you have a climate in the classroom that will facilitate learning. It has a desire to correct. In addition, we have now cut off the school leave scheme, which many of our parents are totally dependent on. This will mean that the school leisure system for many will be many thousands more expensive as a result of the cuts we have now received in the state contribution. Schools are Norway's future, and that's where it should have been put, so that the contrast between the private wealth that many of us have, and public poverty becomes less. What we're sending out to our kids is: the school isn't that important. Unfortunately, this budgetary agreement strengthens. This is one of the many great paradoxes of this year's budget: while the wallets of many of us become thicker and the state has billions on book, the common consumption suffers. It's one of the biggest challenges, which unfortunately almost only SV is concerned with. Do we want a society where our schools are in a worse condition than the malls, where private wealth is more important than safe growth conditions for our kids? Is that the way we want society to go? The second major challenge is that everyone should have a job to do. Now we may be above the cyclical peak, and that will mean that unemployment will rise again next year. The employer even says that there will be an increase in unemployment with a total of 20,000 new jobs. The unemployment figures of November are alarming. They've been going up for the first time in many years. When the current government chooses to cut labour market measures and chooses to make it easier to work more overtime, it is completely wrong to send out. SV wants to maintain employment. Among other things, we need to do this. by ensuring that we have yard support in line with our competitors, which will enable Norwegian shipyards to contract new assignments. This is also what we want to do by reducing the employer’s contribution to make it easier for employers to hire people. In addition, we want to provide additional funds to the House Bank to ensure that we have a stable housing structure in Norway, which is very important in order to have stable and long-term employment. For what's important is that all people have a decent job to do. We use our freedom of action to go in the wrong direction also in environmental policy. From being a country of the past as other nations looked up to, we have now become a sink. Unfortunately, the switch to green tax policy has stopped. In the budget that will be adopted later today, there is no green colour left at all. When it comes to environmental challenges, we can't stick our heads in the sand and pretend they're not there. Here, there is a growth and government that needs to go ahead to stimulate environmentally sound behaviour. In all these fields, the Right Party and the Advance Party are now to decide, including in the case of a fairer distribution of the goods. Those who have the most will get the most. The ones that have the least are going to get smaller. Today's Economy sums this up quite correctly in Saturday's edition, where they say that the Government gives the most to those who are the richest. The shipowners shall continue to refrain from paying taxes. Furthermore, dividends shall be tax-free, and we shall continue to have a tax system that increases the tax on sickness and gives the most tax relief to those who have the most already. This is not a budget for solidarity. This is not a budget for reducing the differences. Unfortunately, this is a budget that does not meet the major challenges we face, into the next century. I would like to include the suggestions SV has made in the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1021	Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1026	During the working party governments, we often experienced that SV, together with the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, criticized the Workers' Party for the policy that was then pursued. In particular, within the areas of environmental policy, aid policy and refugee and asylum policy, these four parties were reasonably united. Yes, it was actually used expression as that the policy that was pursued was iron-hard and without human face. We remember all the appeals and demonstration trains outside this building, where current central government members participated. Now we've had over a year with new government. We're in the middle of the second state budget treatment. Now we should see the new course as SV, together with the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, called for within the environment, aid and refugee and asylum policies. I would then like to ask the question to SV and Djupedal: is SV finally satisfied with the “large” effort we see in the submission to the state budget on the environment and assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1033	I saw the representative Myrlis reply more as an attack on the Center Party and the Center Parties than an attack on SV. The following is clear: We met the new government with anticipation – simply because the sitting working party government in the previous period in very many important areas went in the wrong direction. They also allied themselves at the time with the Right, which made us have a worse distribution policy than we should have. We got a worse environmental policy. We got a tougher asylum and refugee policy, and we also got an environmental break after our assessment. But the representative Myrli is absolutely right – the current government has, in our opinion, failed in all these important areas. I will be very frank and say that I would like to wish Thorbjørn Berntsen back in this Chamber, for now we have an Environment Minister who we do not even know exists, and who is a retard even in relation to the European Union. So we've put in place an environmental break, unfortunately. I would like to contribute to getting environmental policy up and running, to get a more active aid policy and not least a more active policy for fair distribution. That's what's the big challenge in the years we're left in the current ageing period. In fact, there is the possibility of an alternative majority, a majority that can actually put environmental policy on the agenda, which can lead to a more humane refugee policy, which can have a more active environmental policy, which can have a distribution policy that benefits, and not as the budgetary agreement we now have, which gives the most to those who have the most from before. It must mean that the Labour Party must choose sides, but it must also mean that the sitting government cracks, because it is a huge burden, I believe, for all those who have stood outside the Storting and held appeals against the previous government, that they should now sit and administer a policy together with the Right and the Advance Party in the field of the environment, in the field of asylum and in the area of distribution. There's not a budget we're going to adopt today, it's a backlash of all the heart issues on which the government went to the elections. It's not a problem for SV, but it's a problem for the government. We'd like to challenge them: go in a different direction.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1040	The Socialist Left Party has as one of five main objectives work for all. This follows with a tax increase of NOK 8 billion above the comparison between the Progress Party, the Right and the Centre Parties. This only leads to the removal of the 35 pst discount by the asset valuation of unlisted limited liability companies, tightening of the identification rules in the split model, removing the share model ceiling, removing the 80 pst rule, introducing 29 pst. taxes on dividends and the introduction of ordinary company taxes on companies. These tax austerity will mostly affect small and medium-sized enterprises – those that create jobs. The Socialist Left does not understand that if their proposals are adopted, they do not lead to more jobs, but the opposite? Several of the small and medium-sized enterprises operating with marginal profits, or only in balance, will meet the wall and go bankrupt or choose to go down. The question then has to be: Where has SV thought that those who become unemployed when these jobs are laid down will get a job? Are there more publicly funded jobs to be filled, or are they to be employed in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1045	There are some lines you get every year, and in that way Svendsen's line was a repetition from last year. Let me say the following: I have been employed throughout my working life in one of the small and medium-sized enterprises that are totally dependent on the wheels walking around, which is totally dependent on having a small local market, which actually creates the jobs that are necessary. SV has with its proposal, which is mainly shared by the Workers' Party in the setting, of course, no desire to beat the legs of any business – not at all. But we also have no desire that just because it is a small enterprise, it should get particularly favourable tax arrangements. The whole point of the society we have, which is the whole foundation of SV's policy, is that everyone should contribute. We must therefore contribute to the solidarity society we want. You have to help get good schools, contribute to good health. We have a whole set of tax rules that provide tax amps for many in Norwegian society. Take the tax discounts, or the stock discounts that Svendsen was busy with. Why should it be that if you invest in shares, you shouldn't be taxed for the whole sum of the value of the shares you have? If you had put the money in the bank, you have to tax 100 pst. for each krona. What kind of reasonableness is there that if you want to invest in shares, the other taxpayers should subsidize your shares? That arrangement is completely opposite. You have to put your money in shares, but no one should say that I will subsidize your share purchase in the same way. So if I put the money in the bank, sir. The Swedes to subsidize my wealth – my lack of wealth is probably more right to say. SV's tax and tax policy re-distributes, and it is completely wrong when Svendsen says that we are going into increased taxes and taxes for 8 billion kroner. It is on the one hand, yes – but then we redistribute, which means that we provide significant tax relief. In particular, the employer’s fee, where we will provide a half-percentage relief, will contribute to very positive employment developments in many of the companies that Svendsen is said to be very concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1052	The representative, Djupedal, said that the government has abandoned the policy on which it was elected. Of course it doesn't. An important family policy reform such as cash support is now in place in the context of the budget. The Socialist Left Party is, like the Christian People's Party, concerned with the growing-up conditions of children and young people, and not least that children actually need a lot of adult contact and time with their parents. They are also concerned with justice, which is what the cash support contributes to. The alternative budget of the SV states: «The Cash Support Scheme does not primarily give parents greater freedom of choice to be at home with their own children, but rewards all those who do not choose kindergarten with cash support.» Does the SV’s representative Øystein Djupedal think that it is more fair to reward with state grants only those who have kindergarten space, choose kindergarten space, have kindergarten space, while those who do not get but choose other solutions are penalised financially for this? In addition, does Øystein Djupedal and SV believe that by introducing the Workers' Party, a better policy will be pursued on European issues, in terms of the environment – for example, the development of watercourses such as Upper Otta – and in terms of distribution and district policies?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1066	I must first thank you for a nice line. It was so extensive that I don't want to be able to answer everything, but let me start with the small children's families. There is no reasonableness in the fact that those who choose to have children outside the nursery but who choose not to be with the children themselves are receiving cash support. The reverse principle introduced that those who do not have a nursery place should receive cash support does not necessarily promote association with their own children. So you can pick a day mother, a grandmother or anyone, and then you get cash support. It is an unreasonable principle that is being introduced. The fact that a welfare scheme is not used should be presented. Should it also be that the old people who are fortunately able to live at home and take care of themselves are going to receive the allowance we should otherwise give to the nursing home or old age home? It is a strange form of thinking that is being pursued here in politics. And the most disappointing thing is that the Bondevik government has a family policy that is very discouraging. They redistribute from people like me to those who have cash-assisted children. This means that all of us who have children in school – and the school is now facing cuttings, both in the school sector and in the school leisure system, cutting the baby supplement, cutting down on child welfare – in many areas should contribute to financing the cash support, which we believe is a completely wrong family policy. This has been criticised by SV all along. And the many small children's parents who now see that the cash support is adopted will see that we – in fact we – are paying the cash support. You might think that's right, and I guess the government is right, but we never meant that to be right. On the contrary, we believe that the community should contribute to kindergartens, so that people get an actual freedom of choice in politics. So two words about European policy, as the representative Kofoed-Larsen also mentioned. What's most important, and I had hoped that a total mass could agree on, is the following: No one in this room, no party, wants the membership issue to come up in this period. This means that the important Europe debate is now as follows: how do we use free action outside the EU, how do we create full employment, how do we create an active environmental policy? Because we're not a member, and we're not going to be a member in the whole period, and hopefully not in the future either. The issue of membership is not on the agenda, but freedom of action outside the EU is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1078	During the autumn, a long and intense TV and radio coverage of negotiations and discussions related to the financial situation and the possibilities for a budget has developed. In this context, TV journalists and other bodies have developed a high frequency of using many commentators, most often each other, by talking about what you feel and think is happening in the future, between journalists. But very often SV has had to adopt such an attitude that either Mr. Djupedal or the representative Halvorsen must comment on what the other parties are doing. I would also like to ask for a comment from Mr. Deep pedal on the behaviour of a party in a single case relating to the budget and budgetary position. What does the representative, Mr Djupedal, think would be a true characteristic of a party that one year spends a lot of time and got to criticise other parties because they have to go subsidized from their primary position to provide the country with a budget, based on a position that a party initially agrees to, but which the next years smoothly and simply jump off without saying anything? I aim here at the thousand-fold of tax cuts that the pensioners experienced after the last year's budget. Last year and in our representative, Djupedal used a lot of loophole in Norwegian newspapers to criticise the Right that, although we were opposed, we were unable to negotiate away the tightening up of pensioners then, criticizing us for that fact. One then reads with a little amazement the financial position, which shows that SV this year, without being under pressure or going into company with anyone else, jumps off its own position and now is for a tax boost for pensioners at a thousand times a year. What characteristics will the representative Djupedal give of that kind of behavior?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1088	It's true, as Erna Solberg says, that SV must unfortunately comment on the political game in which others participate. I'm going to be completely open-minded and say that I would love to see that the party of which I myself am a member had to be in a completely different position, where other parties had to comment more on what we're doing. It's a goal, and I also hope that it will be realized during this magnificence period, that the government we now have with the support of two right parties will not survive, and that it will be possible to build another majority here in the Stortinget. But that remains to be seen. Then to the pensioners and the older reform. What has been the main concern of the SV in the budget is to ensure a high level of public consumption. That means that we haven't accepted a reduction of NOK 9 billion, which has been a bunch of people's opinion here in the hall -- now there's someone going down to NOK 8 billion, but there's a big contraction in public consumption. SV has always said that it is possible that some tightening is important to give some signals to the financial markets that economic governance is actually in place. But what we wanted is to help municipalities maintain decent care for the elderly. We have wanted municipalities to have the opportunity to maintain not only decent care for the elderly, but a decent welfare offer for the many who actually need it. And I have to say that one of the most discouraging things about the budget we're dealing with now is that the parties that previously agreed on it, who agreed to get NOK 4.5 billion to the municipalities just a few years ago, now sit there and say it's no longer important – it's much more important that we sit on the taboos, so the municipalities get to sail their own sea. It's discouraging. So to the special deduction for pensioners. It's true that we don't go up to NOK 17 650, but we're adjusting the special discount for pensioners. We think that's right in the situation we're in right now. We choose to use the other means we have to strengthen the local economy, so that many older people get better, so we don't have to do what we just saw on TV the other day from Mrs. Solberg's municipality of residence, that the elderly are going to get heated food, which we think is unworthy. But this is due to poor municipal economy and not bad will – of course – in the city government of the politicians in Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1099	I share very much of Djupedal's moral aversion to the central government's breach of promises. It is quite incomprehensible that the parties that criticized the Workers' Party last year to starve the municipalities now have a much worse community economy than that. The working party has. It is quite incomprehensible that the government parties which constituted an environmental opposition in the Stortinget are now pursuing such a poor environmental policy that environmental organisations complain and behave. It is – I see now that the Minister of Assistance has also come to the Chamber – incomprehensible that the party that disbanded the Workers' Party, which proposed 800 million additional aid crowns last year, now actually reduces aid to the poor countries and hides it by placing refugee money in Norway into the ODA assistance. It's really totally unintelligible. But at one point, we're separating layers with SV, and that's when the representative Djupedal says we don't need a crisis understanding, we don't need the rigour that's being proposed. Is it a crisis, or is it not a crisis? I think that very many young families with children and people in the establishment phase -- people who have bought an apartment or a house, and who now experience tens of thousands of dollars in extra interest cost -- actually experience it as a crisis, actually have trouble getting the ends to meet. So Djupedal says that it's not just tightness in the budget that is crucial to the trust in the Norwegian economy and to the level of interest rates and price stability. No, it's not just that, it's also the factor that affects. Therefore, I wonder what answer does Djupedal have, when his budget represents a severe deterioration in this tightness, to all those who now hope that confidence in the Norwegian economy will be restored, that the krone price will rise again, so that the level of interest can fall to the level that the countries around us have. I think that many of them are experiencing it as a crisis, and I think that the representative of Djupedal is taking a terrible light on the situation of all of these.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1108	Let me first say to Erna Solberg what I forgot about the previous line, that SV also goes against the propensity, which has now been attempted increased by 700 million. kr only within the different fields as, among others. also affects the care of the elderly. Then to the representative Giske. Nobody's going to blame us for noticing that we now have a record high interest rate. But we haven't been able to see a single actual reason why you're going to tighten up by $9 billion, and what effect it's going to have on the dollar rate or interest rate immediately. And it turns out to be right. Now you've been talking about it this fall. Now we have a budget. Unfortunately, the crown has not strengthened, and the interest rate has not fallen. That means that what we're saying, we're going to tighten up 4.5 billion in private consumption, but we're going to spend 4.5 billion in public consumption, which is, of course, SV's profile in the state budget, would have been far better. Getting up the oil price would have been one measure that we could have actually helped to try to strengthen the price of the crown and thus get a lower interest rate. However, in two fields it is possible for the Norwegian population to ensure that small children’s families or families in general receive a lower level of interest, and there is the Workers’ Party together with the Right, now also supported by the Government. One relates to the student loan rate, so it's the market to control the student loan rate, so that 700,000 Norwegian borrowers from the first quarter of next year get almost 9 pst. interest in the Loan Fund. In the opinion of the SV, the Loan Fund shall not be a bank which shall be commercially organised; it shall be a study aid in order to enable people to take up education. I'd like to see the Workers' Party now go back to the old system where we made sure to have a low interest rate in the Loan Fund, as the Stortinget actually decided. The second field concerns the House Bank. Giving people the opportunity to get a place to live means that we have to have a frame in the House Bank that means that we don't experience what we have experienced in the fall, that the House Bank suddenly stood without money, while there were many families that had submitted loan applications. There we can also control the interest rate for the many hundreds of thousands of families.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1119	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1122	We in the Left are satisfied with the budgetary agreement. I love the Progress Party and the Right the victories they have received, because the budget as a whole is still a good central budget. We can see that from the distance between the budget that is now being given to the majority and the main proposals of the other parties. The heart issues of the centre are preserved, no matter what SV claims: continuing to escalate in health and care and in family policy. The goal of being attractive to live in all of Norway is fixed, therefore half a billion more to district measures, and we continue the long way towards having small businesses and family businesses as well as the same incentives as the groups. The action plan for small enterprises is the beginning of a future in which the person who creates his own job – not to mention jobs for others – will also reap honor. We in the Left aim to make it honorable to be visible creators of jobs. We regret that the proposal to increase the tax rate by 1 percentage point on all types of income, but where everyone with a salary below approx. 300000 kroner a year would have been taxed, had been lost during the negotiations. It would be a good measure for better distribution. We just have to note that in the policy of distribution, the Left and the Right are separating. Equally, there is a significant distance in environmental policy. The left believes that the electricity charge should have been escalated because society needs to reduce the severe growth in energy consumption. The growth of energy consumption is the greatest environmental threat in our time. A single ear in an increased electricity charge is, of course, far too small to reduce demand, but it is a signal that the prices of our energy consumption must rise. If not, we will be forced to build down the rest of our watercourses and to build more and more gas power plants. This should be understood by all those who have a concept of the Norwegian economy and of the relationship with energy and environmental policies. That is why the Left is particularly disappointed by the inability of the Workers' Party to participate in increased energy pricing. Since the accession of the Bondevik Government, the opposition has done its best to create the impression of a government without governance. The tone indicating in this mike choir must bear its share of the blame because we have received an unnecessarily high interest rate in Norway. In particular, the Workers' Party is doing its utmost to create the impression that Norway is out of control. This is a warped image, but it flourishes in good soil because the central government has challenged established power structures in Norway. Norwegian society is increasingly influenced by corporations and invisible rulers outside democratic and open public spaces. For the Workers' Party, it is obviously easier to negotiate with a few big capitalists than with the many small ones. We in the Left would like to cooperate with the Labour Party on a better distribution of social goods, but the fight for better conditions for the weakest and the smallest in society, not to mention the fight for the environment, is not won by the fact that big capital gains all the benefits. The working party knows better than anyone that a minority government’s governance depends on an opposition that is really concerned with cooperation on a factual basis and which is less concerned with the government’s pursuit of life. The greatest difference between a minority government from the Workers' Party and a minority government from the Centre Parties is that the first one does not meet a Workers' Party in opposition. But the arrogance of power is manifestly wavering after one year in opposition. It is therefore still important for the Workers' Party to continue its adult training project as an opposition party. First, the Workers' Party must learn a little more respect for political opponents. Then the party can talk about cooperation with other parties, so we can believe in them. Based on the real strengths of the Storting, this budget is a good and balanced compromise. The concern about the budget has, in my view, been created because established power structures in Norway feel their positions threatened.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1143	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1146	When I listened to Terje Johansen's posts, I really thought that the representative was supposed to defend the government's policy, but it was a powerful attack on an opposition party. Let's do it. But I have to say that I was even more surprised when Johansen said that this is a good center option, and went on and talked about power arrogance in Norwegian politics. Here I think the representative should be a little softer in his formulations. When the central government represents 42 people in the Stortinget, the representative Johansen must also see that these 42 must have some respect for the other parties that represent almost twice as many as the government party he represents. Then the representative comes with strong attacks on the Hostility of the Workers' Party towards small businesses, and was amazed that we do not raise the capital tax to 29 p.m. No, we didn't, just not to attack the small businesses. We also did not go into the short term fee to attack the small businesses, nor did we go into the electricity charge. So I have to ask the representative Johansen: doesn't the representative think there's some justice in letting the owners of unlisted companies pay the same property tax as the pensioners with money in the bank? It is not hostile to small enterprises to stop speculators from establishing non-exchange straw companies, which are the owners of listed shares only in order to achieve lower taxes on wealth. And finally, it is not hostile to small businesses to remove a rule that gives sole proprietors and active owners 7 and 8 pst. taxes on all labour income between NOK 680000 and SEK 3.1 million. kr. It's bloody unfair to ordinary workers. Does the representative not see this policy of distribution, which is now going completely right? And he still calls this a third option in Norwegian policy, center policy. There is, of course, a legal right-wing policy – he should take it inward.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1157	I have defended the central profile of the budget. I believe that the good stuff is still there, and I don't want to repeat these. Then the representative Nordtun talks about respect for other parties. It is possible that the Workers' Party has respect for the smaller parties, but let me say it this way: I have not seen so much about it, and not at all in the so-called negotiations that I have participated in with the Workers' Party twice before. Now I have not said that the Workers' Party has any hostility to small businesses, but what I have said – and I would like to repeat this – is that they have given all the benefits to the big capital. The representative Nordtun brings out the benefits that we want to give to small businesses. When, for example, not wanting to weaken the sharing model further – the sharing model that actually results in small enterprises receiving up to twice as much tax as large capital – and when we do not want to remove the stock discount for small enterprises, it is because we want to provide these jobs, which are among the most vulnerable in Norway, some advantages, at least as many benefits as large enterprises have. It is a fact that the increase in interest rates that we are all now trying to combat has resulted in a number of small businesses in the districts being exposed. If we are to raise the wealth tax for them too, this will lead to the exclusion of these vulnerable jobs. And I hope that doesn't want the Workers' Party either?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1166	It is with great satisfaction that I note that the budget position of the majority has further strengthened the impact of the Health Policy of the Progress Party. On this occasion, I could imagine asking Left's Terje Johansen briefly to explain the health policy of the Left, which I think is very familiar, and then linked to the following question: Does the Left want to maintain a decentralised hospital system, where the hospital operation is closest to seeing as an employment measure to maintain the county council? Is it possible to expect support from the Left to release hospitals in the form of foundations or limited liability companies? Could expect support from the Left in the Government to increase input-based funding to 60 pst. from the year 2000, as everyone – I stress everyone – asks hospital directors to increase treatment capacity? And finally, will the Left support a proposal from the Progress Party for the input-based funding to be paid directly to the hospitals and not, as it is now, to the county councils?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1176	It should not be so difficult for Alvheim and the Progress Party to get an eye on Left's health policy. Our Health Minister has now presented several proposals, so that it should begin to become quite clear what the Left stands for in health policy. We're in government, and it's the government's health policy that's Left's health policy. I just want to say, in answer to most of the questions that Alvheim is asking here, that the big difference between the Health Policy of the Left and the Health Policy of the Progress Party is that we still want a strong public health system. But we're looking forward to the private supplements that are now coming, because we think they can be useful corrective to public health services. The input-based funding now seems to have come to a level where we would like to see the impact before we go further. We're now up to 50 pst. There has been a significant increase in the last two budgets, and we now think that we should flatten out there and see what happens in the Norwegian health system. We want to get back to that with the answers to the other questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1186	When you listen to Left's speakers, the comments in the media and not least look at the body language, it's not going to get past the fact that the Left seems to feel more comfortable with what you've achieved with the Right Party and the Advance Party than with the central government's original proposal for the government budget. And that might not be so strange. The left went to the elections to improve the conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises, while the left in government has made proposals that will make the businesses worse with Sponheim as Minister of Industry than they had with Thorbjørn Jagland as Prime Minister. For 1999, the central government proposed a triple notification for small and medium-sized enterprises: higher taxes, higher taxes and an extension of the employer’s period in the case of sick leave, which would lead to higher costs. Following the conciliation with the Right and the Advance Party, these proposals have been buried. And if Terje Johansen is going to be honest, I guess he doesn't think he's sorry that the Right has helped save a little bit of Left's honor in terms of SME policy. The right is concerned with stability and predictability, particularly in economic policy. Businesses have not been served by the central government, from one side to the other. Right wants to facilitate more lasting commitments between the centre and the right, especially in economic policy. My question is: will the Left help to achieve more lasting cooperation on economic policy between the centre and the right?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1197	: What has been necessary to do with business as well as with the public sector and private consumers in the two budgets for which that government has been responsible is to try to tighten up so that interest rates can be reduced. What the government has done is cut thin off the welfare growth for everyone, and thus it has hurt a little for everyone. There's nothing to hide that our Minister of Industry, Sponheim, has made a big contribution to the pain, to say it like that. I'm not going to interpret his body language, but that he's been comfortable with it, I don't think so. But let me put it this way: once we have reached a compromise with the right-wing parties on parts of economic policy, we are satisfied with it. But what still keeps us at arm's length is that the differences in the distribution policy are significant. It is shown, among others: through the tax proposal that we originally had, and what we had to agree to. There is no doubt that the distribution of the proposals for tax changes in the centre party was significantly better than what we have now had to agree to. I'm sorry. In environmental policy, I see the use of energy taxes as perhaps the most important of all measures, and consumers could actually have avoided them by saving. But let me say about these measures that I promise no lasting connection with the Right until we can at least agree on the important things in terms of distribution and environment. When it comes to energy taxes, I only have one thing to say: we'll be back.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1206	The left must at least make sure to come back in this period, because in the next period it may be too late. At the end of these negotiations, party leader Sponheim came with a clear warning to the Right that if the government had to go, it would be disastrous for government cooperation on the bourgeois side for a long time to come. Then the center government throws the clothes and moves on to the Right and the Advance Party. Are we clear? The central government won the round of tenders for the Workers' Party on the Right's favour. Terje Johansen is very pleased. He loves the right results they've achieved, and that's not wonderful. The left is really just'small right' – with a little difference, they're a little less busy with businesses than what the right is, and then they've had some environmental fun in periods, but there's not much left of it either. So Terje Johansen says that the central policy stands firm, and that the turmoil surrounding the budget has been created. He mentions child policy and district policy as examples of its firmness. The declaration by the Adultåssen states: ‘Enhancing the economic environment is a prerequisite for improved local maritime governance’; And that's the municipalities. Why should municipalities set up schools and kindergartens, why should it be more expensive to have a school holiday scheme, etc.? If the central government's child policy stands firm, it would be completely unnecessary. Why do the Left rapporteurs in my county discuss whether to lay down their jobs? What kind of unrest have these left-wing rapporteurs created for which there is no basis? What didn't they understand? It seems that local politicians, including those from the Left, feel that there is no cause for concern. In Hamarøy they can just calm down and say that it's going well, this budget we're going to get into port, because it says in the Adult Declaration that the local economy is going to get better. It's just that we didn't realize it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1219	In any case, let me first say that the local economy got a lot better at this agreement than if the Right Party and the Workers' Party had been allowed to merge. But when I listen to SV, it is quite obvious that the further out on the sideline they are, the higher they have to chew to make sure that we who are in the lane hear them. The sound level increases with the distance to where things are going. In the center we have, among other things, a refugee policy, an aid policy, an environmental policy, a rural policy, a cultural policy and, above all, a European policy which should be quite close to the SVS. It is completely incomprehensible to me that the SV-representative is running with the central policy when I know that they are falsifying themselves to the Workers' Party almost at all costs.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1226	There could have been many questions to ask Terje Johansen's reply here now, but to start with the first: Can we expect the government to come back with a revised proposal for an electricity tax, since Terje Johansen said so clearly that «we will come again»? In his main post, the representative Johansen said very little about small and medium-sized enterprises, which have been his enthusiast for a long time, at least he has tried to express it from the pulpit here. For Terje Johansen, it can be reported that the performance of small and medium-sized enterprises is expected to have deteriorated by about half in 1998. 11 pst. I don't know where he put the explanation. But it is hardly the small and medium-sized enterprises that are currently waiting, at least in relation to a recognition in an action plan by a Minister for Industry. The working party believes that reducing the level of interest rates is the most important contribution for businesses and to prevent increased unemployment. We have, after all, a level of interest rates in Norway that is twice as high as in Sweden, and the Government claims that there is largely a situation outside Norway that is the cause of the high level of interest rates. It might be interesting to get an answer from Terje Johansen on whether there is a need for tightening Norwegian policy of nearly NOK 8 billion when the government claims that the level of interest rates is largely due to things that are not in the domestic policy course here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1235	If we can wait for a proposal for an increased electricity charge in the revised, I doubt. Now we should await the investigation that the Energy Committee has made – otherwise under the leadership of a Vice-President of the Workers' Party in Bergen, if I do not remember correctly – and which is perfectly clear in its conclusions. Energy prices must rise if the environment is not to fall. With regard to the unearned earnings or lower earnings of small enterprises in 1998, it is due, quite rightly, to the increase in interest rates, to the overheating of the Norwegian economy and to the settlement of wages. We agree on all of this. I actually thought that the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties had some sort of agreement on the tightening up as well. We're dipping about 7-8 billion dollars into both alternatives, and we agree on that to get the interest rate down. So far, everything's fine. What do we disagree about? Yes, we in the Left will not impose on small businesses increased taxes, increased taxes on wealth and the sharing model, which takes 49-50 pst. of the surplus instead of 28 pst. as in the major holdings. We don't want to threaten these jobs more than they've already been threatened.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1242	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1245	By the end of November, 48 000 completely unemployed people were registered in Norway. This means that unemployment is still low, but it also means that unemployment is now increasing for the first time in three years. The increase in itself is not dramatic, but it is a warning that we are facing a turning point in the Norwegian economy, a warning that we can once again have growing unemployment. Also next year the government is raining with high temperature and high pressure in the Norwegian economy. The price and cost growth will be about twice as high as that of our trading partners. But at the same time, we are at risk of unemployment growing strongly in some places and in some industries. Not least some industrial sites along the coast. The problem is that if we try to meet the growing unemployment in some areas by reducing the overall budget tightening, we are at risk of making things worse. Then we cannot stop the price and cost growth, and the competitiveness of the companies is further exacerbated. We can get the worst of two worlds: increasing unemployment and high price rise — at the same time. In such a situation, it is far from the size of the general tightening of the state budget which alone determines whether we succeed in securing jobs. At least as important is the provision of economic policy. If unemployment is growing in some parts of the country while the pressure in the Norwegian economy is still high, we need more effective instruments than just changing the budgetary balance. One such effective tool is labour market measures. We can have thousands of available hands and at the same time thousands of vacancies. Right then, we need the measures to help the unemployed fill the vacancies. Everyone understands that it may be right to reduce the number of job initiatives this year with falling unemployment. On the other hand, it is irresponsible to do as the Government does: more than half the labour market measures in a year we expect increasing unemployment. It is precisely these measures that could have been deployed in those areas of the country and in those sectors where unemployment may grow next year. In addition, we know that the cuts in labour market measures will in any case affect those who already have problems getting a job: young people with little education, long-term unemployed and immigrants. This morning, oil from the North Sea was sold at NOK 83 per day. barrel. In the government budget, the government has based itself on the fact that the oil price is 110 kroner per year. barrel. Instead, if the oil price remains at today’s level, it means that the government gets nearly 30 billion dollars less in revenue than budgeted. Many might think that when the state's revenue goes down, so should the government's expenditure. It does not mean the Workers' Party. We can believe that, because last year's oil revenues were higher than expected, we were in favour of the unforeseen extra income being used to increase the government's expenditure. Instead, we went in so that all the extra revenues were transferred to the oil fund. In this way, the oil fund became a buffer against unsafe oil revenues. The fluctuations in oil revenue shall be reflected in the fluctuating reserves of the oil fund, not in fluctuating state resources for welfare. Not all parties are able to live up to this principle. The central parties and the Progress Party would spend more money as oil revenues were higher than foreseen, without realizing that the consequences of this would then have to be cut in the allocations to school, care for the elderly and health reaches the revenue currently lower than foreseen. The progress party thought that the unforeseen high oil revenues last year were like winning at Lotto, and we had to be allowed to use the profit. But if the high oil revenues last year were like winning in Lotto, today's low oil prices are like losing on the racetrack. Also the Progress Party must understand that if one day you win in Lotto and the other day loses on the race track, it is wise to set aside the gain to cover the loss. The use of our oil revenues is not about gambling. It's about managing our common national wealth, and it's about securing future pensions and the welfare of the future. It requires accountability and predictability in economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1269	This year we are presenting our own state budget for the first time. I said in the last financial debate that we were not able to present any government budget at the time, but we have kept our word as I said we would get stronger again in this fiscal year. In our budget, we have as expected priority ports, fairways and fisheries research. And we've taken into account better transportation solutions as we've added $1 billion to road development. We have roads in some areas, which are necessary to bring values out of the districts and down to the export markets, which far from having the same standard as the car running on the road. I am thinking in particular that the car that is driving on the road has an EU approval, but it can hardly be said that the roads in District Norway have. I wonder, if questions had been asked about the road standard, whether it maintained the EU standard, whether it would have been in line with the other adaptation policy that both this Government and the former governments have emphasised. I guess it's time to ask that question. That is why, in our proposal, we have tried to do our part to adapt the road standard in Norway to EU standards. We have also given priority to the local economy. Obviously, if you cut big in the municipal economy, it goes beyond the weakest. It's going out of school, it's going out of the old people, and it's going out of the home system. We've always had the principle that children should have free school. But after the years have passed, you have had to pay more and more in proportion to having the children in school. It's clear that after the years go by and you go up in class, it becomes more expensive to have children in school. If you cut, it gets more expensive and expensive for your parents. There's no doubt about it. We've also taken into account education in general and for universities. Research is also incredibly important, especially fisheries research. We are facing a growing demand for evidence that the resources we are extracting do not threaten sustainable development. When we lack evidence, we may be exposed to boycott threats from other countries. We also have a growing demand for eco-labelling, and it must be based on sustainability. We've clearly increased the budget for both police and prosecution authorities, and we've been thinking about small businesses, even small and large businesses, because it's important to be clear that you have to create a crown before you use it. Some – both representatives and parties – are often more interested in spending money before they create it. Some people even think it is important to share the benefits of others rather than share the benefits. We are critical of the protection plans of the Algae that are imposed on the population. We are critical of resource management in general and not least of predatory policies, and especially of the management of seals and whales. But at least there's the right way. I have a special theme I want to mention, and it's cut at 10 million. kr in the new submitted as regards renewal and confederation of the fishing fleet. It is, in our opinion, a breach of the fisheries agreement that has been concluded. Nevertheless, we have found ourselves in favour of a subsidiary agreement to the proposals of the Government and the Right and the Advance Party. Because it's better to have some influence than no one and stand all alone. Nevertheless, I am addressing the proposals that we have made, including those that we have promoted together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1296	The representative of Bastisen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1300	On 5 October the Government presented its proposal for a State budget. A main objective of the budget was to facilitate a normalisation of the exchange rate and lower interest rates. Efforts were made both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side to achieve a sufficiently tight budget. The government's proposal meant a fiscal tightening up to 1 pst. of the GDP of mainland Norway, or approximately DKK 9 billion. With this in mind, the Government invited the parties on the Stortinget to constructive cooperation on the budget. It proved difficult to establish a majority for an overall budget, but last week an agreement was reached between the Government Parties and the Right and the Advance Party. Although consensus was overtime, it is important, both for economic and political reasons, that a majority in the Grand Duchy thus showed responsibility and action. The adjusted draft budget that is now being adopted has retained a clear centre profile. In its initial approach, the Government prioritised, in particular, the health and care sector, rural measures and greater freedom of choice for families with children. These main priorities are maintained in the adjusted draft budget. Furthermore, the local economy has been managed in accordance with previous assumptions. In the municipal economic proposition, real growth in the income of the municipal sector was taken into account at 1-1 1⁄4 pst. from 1998 to 1999. The government found room for a real income growth of 1 1⁄4 pst. in its order. The adjusted draft budget reduces municipal income and costs about the same amount. Thus, the local government sector will receive a real increase in income as foreseen by about 1 1⁄4 pst. Next year. A substantial part of the tightening up of the Government’s draft budget consisted of increased taxes and taxes. This was proposed for distribution policy reasons and to involve purchasing power in a situation where private consumption growth is a major cause of pressure in the Norwegian economy. However, it turned out that there is no majority in the UK for tax increases, as both the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party have expressed their opposition to this. The latter two parties are opposed to large tax reliefs. Therefore, the Government has had to accept a different profile of tightening, with significantly lower tax levels than proposed in the Yellow Book, and additional cost reductions. The adjusted draft budget reduces the tightening by approximately DKK 1.2 billion compared to the government's plans. So fiscal tightening is probably 3⁄4 pst. of the GDP of mainland Norway. The underlying real growth in government budget expenditure from 1998 to 1999 estimates is estimated at about 3⁄4 pst. I consider this to be a sound budget line, which should facilitate reduced interest rates. Norwegian economy is solid, despite turbulence lately. We have a high level of employment, low unemployment, a high level of education, good public finances and a balance in the foreign economy. However, imbalances have gradually developed in the Norwegian economy. We have experienced a shortage of labour across the country. Many enterprises and public agencies continue to have problems filling job vacancies. This includes, among other things: led to a strong wage growth. It is important that wage and cost growth rapidly drop to the same level as with our trading partners. If not, we will eventually be at risk of increasing unemployment and a weakened basis for solving important common tasks. The government budget now adopted provides a good basis for a very moderate income statement next year. It will contribute to the necessary cooling of the economy and facilitate lower interest rates. Furthermore, the charging scheme will contribute to a lower price increase than assumed in the national budget. But this isn't enough. The social partners have a significant responsibility here. The strong economic growth we have experienced since 1993 is largely due to increased participation and reduced unemployment. However, labour force growth will be significantly lower in the years ahead. The potential for continued economic growth is therefore also reduced accordingly. However, lower growth does not mean decreasing pressure problems. Therefore, the necessary cooling of the Norwegian economy requires that economic policies contribute to significantly reduced growth in the demand for goods and services next year compared to what we have experienced in recent years. Some new information on the Norwegian and international economy has come to light since the submission of the national budget. Among other things, the following may be mentioned: Employment continued to increase from the second to the third quarter. The registered unemployment rate has remained fairly stable in the last two months, while the unemployment rate has continued to fall. The consumption of goods increased clearly from the second to the third quarter, although there was a decrease in September. This year’s evolution is well in line with the estimate in the national budget, for private consumption growth from 1997 to 1998 at the lower end of 4 pst. Exports of traditional goods continued to increase in the third quarter. At the same time, there was still a strong increase in imports. Consumer price growth in the last 12 months was 2.5 pst. in September and 2.2 pst. of October. This corresponds well to the previous estimate of 2.3 pst. average growth in consumer prices from 1997 to 1998. In the national budget, the growth in consumer prices was estimated at 31⁄4 p.m. in 1999. With the tax arrangements included in the adjusted draft budget, the increase next year can be estimated at about 2 3⁄4 pst. In the last few days, the oil price has been about 80 kroner per year. barrel. The low oil price underlines the importance of not increasing oil dependence. As underlined in the national budget, there is considerable uncertainty about economic development. In particular, the following aspects: The high wage growth can fasten. In this case, it will contribute to loss of competitiveness, stronger price increases and continued pressure problems. The economic problems in Asia and Latin America and the political turmoil in Russia can lead to a setback in the world economy. In particular, in the case of persistently low oil prices, it may take time for the exchange rate to be brought back to the initial rental and the level of interest to return to the European level. Assessments of the main uncertainties are mainly related. However, the risk of a serious setback in the international economy may appear somewhat less now than at the time when the national budget was presented. This includes, among other things: the context of a reduction in interest rates in the United States and in several European countries, and the implementation of comprehensive measures to strengthen the financial industry in Japan. In addition, a programme of support for Brazil under the auspices of the International Monetary Fund will reduce the risk of a major and major setback in Latin America. The new information received does not imply any significant changes in the Norwegian economy assessments since the national budget. The government emphasises the continuity of monetary policy. It therefore concluded in the revised national budget this year that the monetary policy guideline on stability in the value of the krona against European currencies will continue even after EMU is established. There was a great deal of excitement about this in Stortinget. It was also pointed out in the revised national budget that, in a letter to the Ministry of Finance of 24 April this year, Norway’s Bank writes that the euro could be included as an important European currency in the same way as the ecu is today a central governance parameter. Our current exchange rate regime does not provide the basis for seeking mutual intervention cooperation with other countries. In particular, we cannot ask other countries for credit or cooperation to defend the price in the case of a declared central rate with defined fluctuation margins and associated obligation to intervene for our own central bank. If we wanted closer cooperation with the European Union, we would have to establish a fixed-term intervention regime for the Bank of Norway. The design of the current Norwegian system based on price stability must be seen in the light of our experience in 1992 and the problems in many other countries of maintaining fixed-rate regimes over time. Increased capital movements make fixed-rate regimes less stable than before. It has therefore been widely agreed that it has not been appropriate to return to the regime that we had until 10 December 1992. This assessment is established. There is insufficient evidence today to believe that Norway can have the prospect of strong and committed monetary cooperation with the EU that could make a new fixed-rate regime stable and resilient. Moreover, on 19 November I presented the Economic and Monetary Union and Norwegian monetary policy in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee of the United Kingdom. A minority government must be willing to compromise with the opposition. The parties to the Government have gone a long way in ensuring a majority of the budget is sound. However, the main priorities of the budget have been preserved, and most importantly: it is a commitment to a tight government budget for next year. It will contribute to the necessary cooling-down of the economy that will facilitate the recovery of interest rates. This will facilitate a fair distribution and a solidarity-based welfare society in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1368	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1371	In many ways I think the Minister of Finance's description of the uncertainty we have before us, on some points almost until confusion was equal to much of what the Workers' Party says about the situation, but I'm not going to call it black paint. It is likely that there is a significant realism in what the Minister of Finance presents as uncertainty, which we have to deal with in the future also in terms of economic development. Earlier this fall, the Minister of Finance has placed considerable emphasis on the fact that the fate of the national budget that was presented was to be sealed in the Stortinget, and now we know the outcome, now we know what will be adopted this evening. And that must probably be so, I think, that the Minister of Finance is the one of all of us who are participating in this debate and who are present in the Chamber, who have the best insight into what we can expect is the impact of the budgetary decisions to be made tonight. There has been a lot of time in this debate to talk about processes, etc., but I assume that those who follow the debate, who are affected and affected by what a government budget contains, are interested in: what will be the impact for me and for mine and for my everyday life and for my economy of what is adopted in the Stortinget? I waited with interest for the Minister of Finance's contribution to perhaps have some more leads on what the Minister of Finance sees for itself to be the effect. And my challenge to the Minister of Finance is: Is it possible for Minister of Finance Restad to tell the Stortinget, but not least everyone outside this house, what the Minister of Finance estimates will be the impact of the budget to be adopted tonight? What are our expectations? What are the expectations of the Minister of Finance for the development of the exchange rate and, in particular, the level of interest rates? How long should we expect to live with such an extraordinary high interest rate as what we have? And what more exact expectations does the Minister of Finance have regarding the development of employment?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1380	What will be the impact of the budget now adopted, asks Hill-Marta Solberg. Yes, at least the Government has now provided for the adoption of a sufficiently tight budget to restore confidence in the Norwegian economy. Thus, the conditions on which the Government has placed the emphasis in the preparation of the budget, namely the provision of a krone with normal prices and reduced interest rates, could be met. Unfortunately, it is not just what is happening here in Stortinget this afternoon and tonight, which determines the confidence in the Norwegian economy, the krone price and thus the interest level. One very important factor other than what's happening here is the oil price, and unfortunately it has neither magnification nor government control over it. But at least this government has done what is in its power by providing for a reduction in the rate of extraction, thus contributing to the oil price being no lower than the maximum necessary. But it is clearly a concern that last week's OPEC meeting did not produce satisfactory results, so unfortunately we have to live with the uncertainty about the oil price. Nevertheless, I believe that the outside world will not sit calm and see that we have an interest rate level in Norway beyond the double of Europe, without Norwegian kroner becoming attractive again. And it's my belief that the outside world is misinterpreting the Norwegian economy. There is nothing in the real economy that would suggest the weak krona price and thus the high level of interest rates. I'm afraid that one imagines that Norway is more dependent on oil than we actually are, and I remind you that in a budget of about 500 billion kroner, we only use 1 pst., about 5 billion kroner, to balance the budget. The rest, 99 p.m., is provided from the mainland economy. So we're not as dependent on the oil as the outside world unfortunately seems to believe.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1385	I fully agree with the Minister of Finance that the oil price has a lot to say for the exchange rate development and therefore also for the interest rate level. It is known that the estimate that the Government is operating on the oil price budget for next year is 110 kroner. In the course of the budgetary process, there have been no signs from the Government that they want to reduce that estimate in line with what all oil market experts have said, namely that there will be a sustained lower oil price throughout 1999. It would then be interesting to hear the Minister of Finance’s assessment of why the Government has not found it appropriate to downgrade the oil price level estimate so that it will be in line with the market as a whole. Secondly, the Minister of Finance said in his speech that there was a very close link, that the oil price affects the price of the crown, which in turn affects the level of interest in Norway. And precisely because the oil price is a factor that is very difficult for Norwegian politicians to rule, it is all the more strange that the Minister of Finance repeats that monetary policy remains firm on the part of the Government. If it is the case that the Government does not want to use monetary policy to bring interest down, what is in it that the Minister of Finance is talking about, to cool down the economy? What kind of instruments does the Government want to use that will in itself lead to a more stable crown, which in turn will lead to a lower level of interest rates?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1392	When creating a government budget, certain assumptions have to be taken into account, and an important condition for a Norwegian government budget will be the oil price estimate. Our best specialists in this area thought when the state budget was drawn up and finalized at the end of September/beginning of October, that NOK 110 per year. barrel was the best estimate you could come up with. I remember that there are very big fluctuations in the oil price. Only in a short time as Minister of Finance have I experienced oil prices of up to NOK 160 per year. barrel and in the last days down to NOK 77 per day. barrel. So predicting if the oil price one year in the future is not easy – it is to be admitted. But for the state budget, it does not mean any major disaster if we are to make mistakes in the oil price, rather than that the surplus will be reduced and the provision of the petroleum fund will be reduced accordingly. It doesn't mean, with a reasonable estimate of oil prices, that we're going to get into a situation where we don't still have a significant surplus in the state budget, the greater disaster than that is not. But much more worrying is that, as I had in my previous answer, a sustained low oil price may mean that it does not go as quickly as we would like, getting the price back to normal again and thus getting interest rates down. I am aware that SV has a different view of monetary policy, and I believe that we should be guided by an inflation target. I totally disagree with that, and it's also the rest of the hall here disagree with the Progress Party in. The only thing that's certain is that if we had a inflation target, we would have had the higher interest rate that we got this year, already a few years ago. It's just to study what Norway's Bank thought about the pressure in the economy at the time, and to do something about the pressure they thought was there, Norway's Bank would have had to set up the interest rate with an inflation target at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1401	The President expects that there was a talk from the Council of State when he said SV instead of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1404	Yes, it was a delay.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1409	Growth in the Norwegian economy is decreasing, and there is a lack of an overall government strategy on what framework conditions we need in order to be able to assert ourselves better in the areas where growth opportunities exist. The mitigation we are now implementing needs to be combined with initiatives that can enable both society and individuals to meet the demands of the new knowledge economy. Unfortunately, we are losing ground on the world market because our exports are too much based on raw materials and semi-finished products, where demand in the international market is growing much less than for finished products. Growth opportunities are primarily found in the workshop and technology industries. But only 11.4 pst. of our total exports of goods, including crude oil and natural gas, come from this sector. In Sweden the share is 48 pst. The day the revenue from oil and gas activities really starts to decrease sharply, we are facing significant problems. It is this challenge that we should discuss, and that is this challenge that the State budget should also have been an answer to. While the Danes are now presenting a difficult package that reduces taxes and burdens on industry, not for them not to fly out, but for more people to fly into Denmark, the Government proposes in its original scheme quite strong tax increases and worsening business framework conditions. Fortunately, this was driven back. However, in order to prevent unnecessary uncertainty related to the industrial policy of a minority government, the Minister of Finance may think of a longer-term approach, including: together with the Right and Advance Party, in relation to foreseeable framework conditions, by making it clear in the revised national budget that the level of taxation is fixed for some years to come in order to secure investments and jobs in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1418	When the Government in its budget line, to get a tightening of up to 1 pst. of GDP, proposed significant tax increases in a range of DKK 4 billion, it was because it was difficult after very many years of cuts in public expenditure to cut much more, because this is not the first year we cut public expenditure, it has been done by our previous governments in the last three to four years, and it was limited how far you could get in this area. In addition, it is an important point that a main cause of the strong pressure, which will continue the pressure in the economy next year, is a strong increase in private consumption. That is why, in our opinion, it was right to withdraw purchasing power in the form of increased taxes and taxes. Now, unfortunately, we had to find that there is no majority in the Storting for increased taxes and taxes, as both the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party opposed it. Of course, a minority government needs to take account of the reality, and that is why we got a scheme in which the proposed tax increases were essentially removed. Then I think that Børge Burnde also makes the same mistake as many others do, and makes us as so very oil dependent. We're probably an oil nation, but when, as I mentioned in a previous reply, we have the situation that 99 pst. of the revenue to cover our expenditure is provided from the mainland economy, it becomes somewhat skeptical to present us as so totally oil dependent. In the case of future tax arrangements, I do not want to pre-empt them now. We'll have to come back to that when we're going to provide a budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1429	There is one issue that the Minister of Finance is seriously underestimating in terms of the oil economy, and that is that Norway is the second largest oil exporter in the world. That means that we have a much greater impact on the oil price than we like to believe. It is clear that the only right thing for Norway in such a situation, as the oil price is today and as depending on the Norwegian economy is on the oil, would have been to take an initiative towards OPEC in the context of the meeting that was now held in Vienna. If it had helped, I also doubted, but we had at least shown a positive willingness that Norway is willing to reduce the rate of oil extraction, so that we could put a pressure on it and send a signal to OPEC to do the same. We as a nation are very little served with a low oil price, not only economically because the oil fund is not being filled with money, but – not least – also ecologically, because it is clear that when the oil price is so low, it prices out of all alternative energy sources that are not CO2 polluting. Norway has an autonomous obligation to try to contribute to the rise of the oil price, so that we have an ecologically sound energy regime, and there we should not underestimate the Norwegian role. The finance minister stressed three issues that he thought were important in what he called an adjusted center arrangement. What's not an adjusted center layout, I have to say I'm asking more and more questions about it. I do not know what this government could not have presented as a so-called adjusted center arrangement. If you look at the setting, you see a long list of things that the center parties no longer support, which you have promoted. Then the Minister of Finance brings forward three issues which should be the great winner to the centre. It's the cash support that the Center Party has opposed. And then it's the tightening effect, which you've been working on now, and which is not at the level you originally put forward. The last point is the municipal economy, against which all the 149 rapporteurs of the Central Party are opposed. They believe that it will now be completely impossible to carry out decent welfare production in the municipalities. Now the Storting is about to adopt a budget for which it is not really a majority, it is only the Right Party and the Progress Party that are in agreement with the budget we are about to adopt. My question to the Minister of Finance is very clear: does this Government have any tolerance limit at all?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1443	Yes, of course, this Government has a tolerance limit, and it has not been breached in connection with the agreement now concluded with the Right and Advance Party. It's not true that this has now become a purely right-wing arrangement. It does not bother us so much that we reduced the cut in the defence budget by 450 million. NOK 100 million were added to the police. kr. It actually pleased me personally, who has a long life in the building, that it was possible to get to it. It was not so problematic for us that we spent 95 million. NOK to reduce the self-contained charge from NOK 1550 to NOK 1 320. Nor did we get $5 million. In order to stimulate medical coverage in the districts, it was particularly problematic for the centre parties. And these are elements of the changes that have come into the agreement, as well as that we had to take note that there is no majority in the Chamber for tax increases, which therefore had to be essentially zeroed out. As far as the local economy is concerned, I want to go back a little bit to the autumn of 1996. Then I myself contributed quite a lot here in the house to negotiate with the Workers' Party a greatly improved municipal economy – NOK 4.5 billion more than the Labour Party government had planned. To this high level, an additional real growth of 0.75 pst has been added for the current year, and there is provided for an additional real growth to the next year of 11⁄4 pst. The fact that the municipalities have nevertheless had problems is not surprising, when we know that we got a paycheck that for the local government sector represents about 7 pst. – i.e. the double of what was provided for in the national budget, which was otherwise submitted by the Labour Party Government. This, in turn, has led to an increase in the cost of pension contributions to KLP for municipalities, as well as the fact that they – hopefully for a shorter period – have to live at a slightly higher rate than we would like.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1450	I find that the Minister of Finance is most pleased that he has received more money for his old job. Of course, it may be important for a finance minister, but I have to say that what he said a little earlier, I was more confused by what I understood with the solstice seat. In his first speech, the Minister of Finance said that oil prices were entirely decisive in relation to interest rate developments in Norway. For economic policy domestically, the oil price means little, he said. But he wants to make it easier for lower interest rates. But then he says to Siv Jensen and Børge Burnde in the line change that the oil prices have nothing significant to say. I wonder if he can deepen this a little bit more, and it would be good to get an answer to the question from Hill-Marta Solberg: What is the impact of this budget? What will be the effect of the level of interest? We are aware of how much we use of the oil revenues in Norway, but what is the impact of this budget that is currently under way, except that one has got a little bit more money for the Senate. The most important thing now is to get interest down and keep unemployment away, we're some about that. My question to the Minister of Finance is this: When one looks at the current developments in the labour market, that unemployment is increasing, does he feel well that one has cut as much in labour market measures as is foreseen in next year's budget? We have bad experiences from the late 1980s, when we cut too much in the budget, and we have to take that lesson inward. If the situation once again increases the unemployment rate, the labour market seat must be ready to introduce measures. I feel that the cut that has now been done is not defensive. Finally, there is a proposal from the Right and the Labour Party on the possibility of linking Norwegian krona closer to the euro. I just want a confirmation from the Minister of Finance that he's following up on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1459	I would like to take the themes in the opposite order of what Ranveig Frøiland now took them up. When it comes to Euro connection, I first point out what I said in the post, and not least I refer to the extensive presentation I had in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee on 19 November, which is available on the Internet. I don't have time to go into it in two minutes. So I want to refute the claim that is now repeated several times here, that we are already recording increased unemployment. That's not right. I follow almost daily — at least weekly — figures for the development of unemployment. The last figures I got just before the weekend showed an unemployment rate of less than 49 000 – 48 900 unemployed, and that's the lowest number we've had in a very long time. So it's not right that we now have an increasing unemployment rate in front of us. The Ministry of Finance's best estimate is that we now have a flattening, and in the national budget we have assumed that, on average, there will be a slightly lower unemployment rate in 1999 — approximately. 0,1 pst. lower — than we have had in 1998. Then it's the significance of the oil price and domestic conditions for the price of the crown. I did not say that domestic relations are of little importance. Domestic conditions are significant, but there is no doubt that the oil price has a greater impact on the confidence of the krona and hence on the level of interest rates. And what we have the opportunity to do is then the budget -- we've now made sure that we get a tight budget. We have an agreement to adopt a tight budget at the end of the debate here today. Then, with what we can control, it's arranged for the exchange rate to return to normal rent and the interest rate to go down again. Then we're just hoping that the oil price won't stay on the low level it's at the moment, and I have good faith that we're going to get reduced interest rates and thus better the economic conditions for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1468	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1471	An opinion poll for the insurance company Vesta shows that 31 pst. the public is afraid of being subjected to violence in the evening and at night. 6 pst. The population in 1990 was afraid of daily violence, with 17pst. of the population the same fear today. In 1965 there were 2 500 reviews for violence in Norway; in 1997 there were 15 000 reviews. At the same time, this poll suggests that many do not report the violence episodes. In Oslo, teenagers are stopped on the street and threatened, ransacked and knocked up by children under the criminal paratrooper. Youngsters go to town armed with knives and guns. Daily, taxi drivers in Oslo are exposed to violence or threats of violence. In this situation, the Norwegian population calls for action from its politicians and is met with fine, but ach so empty, words. In this situation, all parties on the Grand Duchy, including the Right, are voting against proposals from the Progress Party to ask the Supreme Court to increase the penalties for violent offenders, to propose that all criminal repeaters and violent offenders should zone in prison and not in the streets, and to propose the removal of the parole system. In this situation, the Minister of Justice of the Christian People's Party is talking about more police in the streets, but at the same time proposes to grant less money to the police. Only after the press from the Progress Party and the Right changed the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left stance and accepted to strengthen the police budget by 100 million. kr, which is far from enough, but better than the Labour Party's proposal and therefore possible for the Progress Party to vote in favour of when our own proposal is down. Under pressure from the Right Party and the Advance Party, government parties have also accepted a binding commitment to help secure jobs for all students who attend the School of Police in the summer. It will ensure nearly 400 policemen working to combat crime. That's also good, but not good enough. The government parties and the Labour Party, which, with their original proposals, weaken the police, obviously view new police posts as a cost item. In reality, it's an income item. In 1996, Norwegian insurance companies paid out NOK 1.3 billion after theft, burglary and robbery. Every third citizen of Oslo has been exposed to a car or home burglary at one time or another. Then it goes without saying that there is a lot to spare to strengthen the police. But economic savings are not the most important. That is what we are saving in human suffering is the most important argument for strengthening the police and voting against the Labour Party's draft budget. A six-year-old boy who is sexually abused by an adult man, a girl who is stopped on the way home, thrown into a portrait and raped, an 80-year-old man who is thrown over the end, disgraced and robbed – it's the victims of crime, as well as all of us who get our life-stricken deteriorated because of fear and fear of burglars and rapists. By granting more money to the police and adopting new and stricter laws to prevent crime, and by ensuring that repeaters among burglars, rapists and sexual offenders are able to prevent longer prison sentences from becoming more victims and reduce human suffering. That is why it is so sad to note that only the Progress Party is following the wishes of the Joint Police Association for an increase of 280 million. kr to the police budget, that the Right proposes 110 million. kr less than the police themselves think it is necessary for SV to propose 180 million. kr less and the Working Party 280 mill. kr less. Of course, it is also sad to note the lack of willingness of all other parties to vote in favour of proposals from the Progress Party which would undoubtedly significantly reduce crime if they had been adopted. Prevention, yes, but mainly in the form of better family policies, better school content and tighter immigration policies. But some long-term measures do not stop the juvenile criminal who has planned a run tomorrow morning! There is a need for police, punishments, and a speedy court. Now action is needed. Politicians have to cut through. It no longer uses empty words. The action sludge from the Minister of Justice and the majority of the population should no longer be accepted, and will probably not be accepted by the population.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1490	The Government Parties, together with the Advance Party and the Right, entered into a value agreement for direct transfer of funds to young children’s parents of NOK 36 000. The sum was reduced correctly to NOK 28 000. But with emphasis on the individual, the government has made a value choice that has the consequence that the community in a number of areas is being broken down. At the same time, it represents a break with the line that has been used in child and family policy so far. The Labour Party will meet this shift in line in an offensive way, and we will ally ourselves with the forces that still see that the uniqueness of our welfare society has been the emphasis of community arrangements. Education policy was early one of the most important points of attack in the field of equality — with school and later kindergartens and school leisure schemes as one of the main means of reducing inequality. We've seen and seen training as self-esteem, but also as a tool to balance social and economic inequalities. In many ways, child and education reforms are the most important social engineering projects in recent times. In the long run, we've got an educational community, and I don't think anyone will detract from what's happened. The society of the future will become an education society even more strongly. But the few would have thought that barely a year with Bondevik would bring about changes in an area that we know most people are looking for, because the results have been so visible. The idea of equality has served diversity and given several opportunities for development. In a short time, we have seen local communities follow the government’s attitude to less attention to kindergartens. In one year, the construction of kindergartens has fallen from over 16 000 places in 1997 to 3 500 places in 1998, a dramatic decrease. The municipalities have taken the government very seriously. They have understood what the Government has meant. And Lars Gunnar Lie also confirms that in an answer earlier today. He says that there is a less need for kindergartens when the cash support is introduced. Yes, there may be consistency between supply and needs, as this development is not corrected, but there are still kindergarten cows. What has now become visible in this room is that there is a different view of the policy vis-à-vis the youngest children. We believe that developments are going in the wrong direction when kindergartens, school-time arrangements and 150 primary schools are threatened, when educational resources for the 6-year reform, which was agreed here in Stortinget, are not to apply when centres providing assistance to the most disadvantaged of the disabled, are being reduced, as is training for minority groups. Unlike the Government and the Advance Party, we believe that safe children and young people in positive growing-up settings also provide security for older people. Older people know from their own experience that there is just a lack of activity and leisure that gives cause for bad situations. Sunny activities are good criminal policies. At the same time, it is the best response to aggression, conflict and unrest in society. There are some old truths that still apply. A society has every opportunity to be both safe and stable when it stands up for most, unlike those societies where freedom of choice and the individual become an explicit policy. After the budget agreement, we've got the impression that the government isn't on what it's doing, the responsibility is trying to push it over to others. But it can't be that the government now really doesn't do as it will, yes, directly does the opposite of what it wants. Where is the ethics? Because as the Danish cultural worker Lars von Trier says, a person who fails his ideals is actually a pity. Yes, where is the ethics if the Government continues to shift responsibility to, for example. The working party? How will the Value Commission, for example, judge the Government for such behaviour?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1509	For the Right, the demand for more money to the police and the judiciary has been a key requirement in the budget negotiations – because we see the situation: We have received an increasing degree of organised, professional and cynical crime, where criminals resort to violence and threats against both victims and police officers, as Kripos Report on Crime 1998 describes it. We have got young criminals carrying out brutal violence and robbery, as the Oslo police report for the 1st half of 1998 describes, an increase in rank, threats with knives and firearms, targeting ever younger victims, who must be taken very seriously. It's not sustainable to continue as before. Globalisation has a backside: organised criminals in search of new pastures, or as stated in the Kripos report, in search of countries with ‘an open policy and a naïve population’. Therefore, the judicial budget of the Bondevik administration was not sufficient, with a decrease in the operating resources of the police in a situation that is not under prudential control. The police took 150 million. kr in increased operating resources and the budget compromise generated 100 million. kr, a significant step in the right direction. But in order for police work to be effective, court orders must be removed. When the Right Shocked to prevent the cuts in the state budget from affecting the justice sector, it was precisely to increase the chances of moving some funds in the justice area in order to give priority to the courts. It has the opportunity for the Judicial Committee to issue the budget position tomorrow. The right has been fighting for years for maximum admission at the Police College, because we need the police we can get. As a result, a Bondevik budget with operational cut-offs for the police would reveal the need for more policemen in the streets, combined with problems for newly educated people to get a job – an unacceptable paradox. That's why the budget compromise says we're going to add up to 100 million. In concrete terms, it decides to ensure jobs for newly trained police officers by providing revised national budgets with job-offering measures. Unfortunately, the most serious crime on a national basis is often ruled by criminal environments in Oslo and nearby areas such as Rome, Follo, Asker, and Bærum. If we're going to break the hose's head, as Willy Haugli put it, we're going to have to put funds here. And in order to do this, we need to separate the Oslo budget as a separate budget line and exempt capital tasks such as embassy watchkeeping, etc. from the general means of operation. This is now an agreement among the budgetary partners to assess, and I expect that assessment not only to be word but practical action, so that for next year's government budget we have this in place. It is no longer possible to sit still and look at developments. We know that police officers must have been guarded 24 hours after threats from mafia communities. We know that policemen's children must have police officers to and from school and kindergarten. It's become more common in criminal environments with firearms and threats, and our law is now forcing police officers in charge of investigation and intelligence to appear with a full name and address in court cases with the hearing benches full of the same criminals they're going to be investigating later on. It is unsustainable, and it is important that the budgetary unit includes reinforced criminal law protection of police officers and the opening of witness tests in anonymity. Furthermore, it is contrary to people's legal belief that criminal repeaters and serious violent criminals are released into the street right after interrogation, with great danger of new crime before the case comes up. It also prevents people from standing by the reports when they can meet, be threatened or attacked by the same rapist immediately afterwards. In the case of the youth trials that were up to the courts in Bærum and Oslo recently, many victims drew the reports, because the children who were victims were advised not to stand up for their own safety in the time that would pass before the judgment fell. It is unacceptable, it is shocking, and it is contrary to all Norwegian society: the safety of children from violence, terror and assault. It is therefore so important that, when the offender is known, the point of the budgetary agreement on the increased use of custody of repeaters and a more effective procedure in the courts must be followed up by concrete legislative decisions and new arrangements in the courts, which ensure that the objectives are achieved. The right is promoting such proposals as early as tomorrow, and the budget compromise is a good step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1546	Times change. When we in the Workers' Party were in government, we were stamped by the Center Party as market liberal. Yes, we were almost lepers if we in individual matters got a break-up from the Progress Party. But what do we see today? Well, the Progress Party is the Center Party's close allies, and the Center Party is faltering to the taboos with the help of Carl I. Hagen. Anne Enger Lahnstein's endless rhetoric about the dangers and deportations of market liberalisation has been replaced by a deep and committed collaboration with Carl I. Hagen, who, as far as I can see, has not changed his view of market excellence or the view of transfers to agriculture. No, now the father is somewhere else. Now, all of a sudden, social democracy is the great danger to the country. Now it's no longer called that Hagen must be kept out of power. No, now it's called the leader of the country's largest party, Thorbjørn Jagland, with 40 pst. The uprising behind the people, for all things must not be said. The Bondevik Government may manage any matter on which it itself is opposed, whether in the case of the alcohol policy, the veterinary agreement, the Schengen Agreement or the consolidation of the local economy. Who doesn't remember Anne Enger Lahnstein in the election campaign: we don't need more right-wing policy here in the country. But we've got more right-wing policy here in the country, and Anne Enger Lahnstein is its mother. I experience this government in many ways as an innovation in Norwegian history, because all promises, except one, can be broken. No principles seem to stand firm any longer. No envelope is so big that it can be called defeat. In its alliance with the Right Party and the Advance Party, it is absolutely impossible for the central government to put the consideration of the weak first. 200000 people with income below NOK 57000 shall lose their entitlement to sickness benefit. The majority of those who lose the right to sickness benefit are women in hard-to-work occupations. The Labour Party is voting against this proposal. The Bondevik government is also postponing the older reform, which the Stortinget has actually unanimously adopted, and which was to ensure our elderly a worthy old age with the care of those who need it. Many are waiting for help today. The Labour Party will follow the development of care for the elderly, because our older people need it. The fixed medical system will also be suspended. It was to provide all people with basic security with a permanent doctor who could help and help to get treatment for the patient and also provide follow-up after hospitalisation. The Labour Party maintains the proposal for a permanent doctor for all. It's just a reform that can't be postponed, that's the cash support. Children’s families have to pay much more for kindergartens and school holidays, with the result that many who need it do not see themselves financially able to benefit from the offers. The tax increases that were left through the conciliation are pushed down to the local level, with increased self-payments and increased charges for people most. This will be in addition to the exceptionally high interest burden on households. The government, through the agreement with the right parties, has cut down on labour market measures, while increasing unemployment. The working party will fight against this development. Our main objective is to ensure the stability of the economy, which can once again bring interest down. This is the most important measure, both to secure the workplaces, the family economy and the welfare systems we all become dependent on.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1572	It is difficult to collect taxes, but it is even more difficult when the money is taken from those who have the most. In the Workers' Party, I am responsible for all charges. I've been standing up early and lying down late for the eight weeks that have gone by since the Bondevik government laid out its budget. Nevertheless, it has been very difficult to find the reality of the word magic of the central parties and the government associated with its ever-changing budgetary balance. That it has also become difficult for the boss, the Prime Minister himself, we saw in editorial 21 of the NRK Television after the right-hand settlement. That's where Bondevik used it that he didn't have an impact on increased electricity prices, as a good reason for cutting compared to the families with children. And as if that wasn't enough, it's probably the same thing in the comments of the center parties in the setting. Now the municipalities are supposed to be happy. It's not that difficult for municipalities to get less income, it says, because it's not going to be a majority of the government's desire to increase electricity prices. This is, at best, pretending to have gone wild in political mist. The Labour Party's refusal to increase fees was a refusal to increase the costs for most people, and with it also a refusal to the weakening of our competitiveness such an increase in prices would lead to. Our tax changes are targeting those who have the most. The tax bill that the centre parties now go in to get support for the Bondevik government to have a seat has a different impact. The local economy is weakened by over DKK 1 billion in relation to the structure of the Workers' Party. The distribution profile is weakened. Not one more penny for the older reform. The weakest have to pay more of the deposit. The unemployed and children are hit. Yes, even the competence centre for autists will be reduced by NOK 200000, but the shipping companies will be saved. The final decisions today, in addition to taxes, are decisions on customs duties and individual charges. Few, if any, like to pay taxes to the state. I have and have the ambition that the fees and systems for these will gradually become more appropriate in their functioning. The changes in car charges have been a good example of this. It is therefore regrettable that the Workers' Party does not get a majority in favour of its proposal to phase out the heaviest strange family cars, and that the Government's proposals are being drawn in the same direction. In addition, it should be allowed to continue to install folding seats in the luggage compartment on a car to call it a minibus, for example, that charging restrictions are still raised by the citizens – rather than road safety. The challenges are many in the area of fees. We're still going to pay more for an unrecorded than for a recorded videotape. The chocolate fee, which alone provides close to a billion kroner in the treasury, has a function close to a revision number. The packaging charge, based on what is inside the packaging, not what kind of packaging is used, is thirsting for a new system. We have taxes on the health-threatening tobacco and on alcohol that has long since passed levels that are acceptable. As a result, half of the alcohol consumed is outside the charging system. The trade leakage against Sweden is a problem we cannot ignore. A number of such charges are specifically mentioned in the financial situation. A general review of these should now take place in advance of next year's budget, in the revised national budget – a challenge no matter what government we might have, but a challenge that we need to address.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1589	The budget of the Progress Party will give the population back 25 663 million. kr taken from it by the State through an innumerable amount of taxes and taxes. The Progress Party is confident that individuals and businesses can take care of their money in a much better way, not least in a more efficient way, because private sector money works much more efficiently than in the public sector. In order for companies in Norway to compete with the rest of the world, it is absolutely necessary that the overall level of taxation is not such that Norwegian enterprises are discriminated against in relation to foreign enterprises. Although I have stopped being surprised, I must admit that I am still amazed at the advanced logical thinking behind the wish of the other parties that they have the disadvantages of having long distances and being scattered, to be reinforced by fees. As the president has certainly recorded, I am a simple man from the country, and in my simplicity I thought that when a country like Norway through creation was granted high mountains and deep valleys, long distances and many fjords, which is naturally beautiful to look at, but which unfortunately brings inconvenience to the business and the population in terms of distance costs – distance costs that parents have to cover when transporting children to play, football training, music practice, etc., distance costs that production companies have to cover when transporting their products to the market – then politicians should try to reduce these distance costs, so that when natural assumptions are right, businesses and the population could settle in the whole country, and you could do as workers' party and centre party people say in party speeches, namely to use the whole country. Unlike the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, the Advance Party prefers action rather than party speeches. That is why, in our budget, we are proposing a reduction of the distance costs by 1 kr per person. litre diesel and 2 kr per. It's like a gallon of gas. This, together with reduced employers' fees, reduced inheritance taxes, reduced wealth taxes, removal of seat taxes in aircraft, reduced environmental taxes, reduced car charges, exemptions from diesel tax for buses, the introduction of married couples' taxes, increased special allowances for the elderly, lower housing taxes and increased class deductions, I think that the possibilities for individuals and businesses around the country will be far better than if the state first took money from them so that, through bureaucratic arrangements, the money would be returned in the form of numerous support schemes developed by politicians, based on what these politicians think is best for the individual recipient. With all due respect for politicians, I would strongly argue that taxpayers are better than politicians to define their needs and what the money should be spent on. In the budgetary agreement with the centre parties and the Right, the Progress Party was able to reduce the historical piece of art for the first time. In addition, we reduced taxes on tobacco products. Although this is joyous, it is far from enough and unfortunately does not solve any problems – and problems are enough of them. The high excise duties on these products have ensured that organised mafia-like gangs have taken over much of the sales made through the Vinmonopole. Anders Lange must have once said from this speaker that a large part of the fog in the valleys is steam from home-burning appliances. I can tell you that the fog Lange has spoken about, has not lightened, rather on the contrary, the Norwegian alcohol policy has contributed to its considerable expansion. For the Progress Party, it is an objective that the population should be able to buy a bottle of spirits, wine or beer at a reasonable price and through legal channels. The same applies to tobacco products. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes reductions in these fees from 12.9 p.m. to 34.3 pst. On 1 October this year, the rates of the luggage tariff increased sharply. As a result, those who want to toll spirits or tobacco they have beyond the quota get a huge jump in prices. The party concerned that this would lead to increased smuggling suggests that the rates applicable to this tariff be reintroduced before 1 October. Together with the reduction in the chocolate levy, which today amounts to 18-19 p.m. These reductions combined will result in a greater degree of harmonisation of the level of charges between Norway and our neighbouring countries, which will, of course, reduce border trade and smuggling.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1619	For us in the Workers' Party, the overall objective is to reduce interest rates, secure welfare systems and secure jobs. The government had the opportunity to come to an agreement with us to ensure, among other things: This. They weren't interested in that. In fact, I expect the central parties to take responsibility for their own road choices and not to blame the Workers' Party for the government making a budget settlement with the right-hand side. When we fight for less – no bigger – differences, there is a question of morality," said Anne Enger Lahnstein in his national meeting speech on 14 March last year. The central government’s budgetary settlement with the right-hand side leads to major differences in Norway, not less. The children are hit by almost a halt in kindergarten development, cut off school leisure arrangements, and warned about school closures. The sick get a worse health insurance scheme and increased excesses, and they don't get their regular doctor next year. The elderly do not get their badly needed nursing home or alone as soon as they should have had it. The unemployed are hit by cuts in labour market measures. Rarely have so many election vows been broken as quickly and as thoroughly as in the case of the government of Bondevik. Was this what Anne Enger Lahnstein meant when she was talking about morality? The Labour Party wants to go in a different direction than the bourgeois parties. Our next year's scheme involves more than 10,000 more kindergartens, it strengthens the school leisure system, it involves more than 2,100 more single rooms and nursing homes for the elderly, and it involves more than 5,000 more places of labour market action than will be adopted today. Our arrangement would also give the municipalities a much better situation. I record that several representatives from the government parties have boasted of the arrangements they have presented to the municipalities. I think you should have a blindfold for your eyes to think it's a good setup, and I'm recording that there's few out in the real world that share that perception. And it's also not true what has been said by several speakers who represent the government parties here today, that the arrangement that is being adopted today is the same as the Workers' Party agreed with the centre parties on earlier. It's not, because it's a cut, and it's also so that a lot has changed since in ours. Therefore, it is also that if our scheme for the municipalities were adopted, it would have given the municipalities a better arrangement with about NOK 1 billion. We also want to redeploy $1 billion in addition to the municipalities that have the most, to those that have something smaller. Together with the rest of our arrangement, it would make it possible for the children, the elderly, the sick and the unemployed to have a better situation. We now experience for the first time in three years that unemployment is increasing, and the Directorate of Labour says it can rise further next year, up to 70 000 unemployed. In this situation, the central government chooses to ignore, partly to contest the clear speech of the figures, and they cut down so that more unemployed people have a more difficult situation. There is more than a halve of labour market measures from this year to next year. That's what the Workers' Party is against. Let me do two examples: Rena Kartonfabrik has unfortunately recently gone bankrupt and all employees have lost their jobs. Now it is announced from Hedmark that the employment office has the plans to provide all the cancellations of the measures and training to enable them to get back to work. However, the problem is that these plans will have little chance of implementing the next year when the Government and the right-wing parties are so cutting down on labour market measures. And what about the lonely caregivers who are now in school and who have done what we asked them to do at Stortinget, that is, take training to get to work and that way become self-sufficient? These women now have to bring schoolbooks back home and end up in the middle of a school year because of government policy. Does the Government really want these people to pay the bill for cash support, so that the high pay gets the most tax relief and the shipping companies are protected? In the view of the Workers' Party, this is a very poor distribution policy. And I find that there is a great difference between the words and what is actually done in action.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1641	The Christian People's Party is particularly pleased that we have now received cash support for both 1- and 2-year-olds. We've worked hard to put this in place and will follow closely how the reform actually gives choices and facilitates a little bit of the time clamp for families with very young children. There is still a need for more kindergartens, despite the fact that six-year-olds have started school and more children under the age of three have parents with more time at home. There is a wide variation in the need for kindergarten in the municipalities. Nevertheless, we know that the vast majority of young children's parents want kindergarten for children at 3-5 years of age, not least for the children themselves. We also know that more flexible offers from kindergarten make that actually more people will see kindergarten as an interesting solution. Cash support can be combined with part-time kindergarten, and I think this will be one of the most interesting solutions for many. This representative finds it regrettable that so many opponents of the cash support claim that they are the ones who have to pay for the valid, and are very sorry about this. They will not succeed in that way in taking from people the boldness to use cash support. The reform is important because it violates the former NHO and LO-approved welfare reforms that are always linked to participation in paid working life. It is important because, together with child welfare, it pays for work on our society’s most important resource — and meaning — namely children. The big question of our time is how to create meaningful employment and manage to do something about the accelerating environmental problems. The 1999 budget must also be seen in this perspective. We must do this within a democratic framework, but it will require the will for solidarity of all of us. Unfortunately, the current trend is to promise all minor taxes and taxes, more personal freedom and to weaken the economic base of the common sector. We can thank the sea if our voters are only concerned with self-interest. Then, as politicians, we failed as leadership and failed to engage people in the community. There is a growing need for solidarity both nationally and internationally. The struggle for the liberation of capital has enough speakers, and more are active lobbyists in the Financial Committee. New shell words in the Norwegian debate on the long lines are nationalism and protectionism, and this representative finds it a little strange. I believe that there is a lot in Norway that it is worth protecting, some values that it is worth calling about, such as: equal pay and cohesion between groups. It seems that it would like to maintain the national State's maritime law and values are now being discarded. Now we're going to accept increasing wage differences, greater class divisions and greater flow of capital and labour across borders. It should not be so natural, because this can destroy the basis of our own existence: the functioning state and democratic stability. The 1999 budget has a structure that follows the main lines of the Adult Declaration. It is important to lay out the framework conditions for meaningful work for most people and to develop a policy that puts people and the community at the centre of people to a greater extent than the current trend. There is no totality in society, as companies can define it in their economy. The school apes also need to find their place as adults. Creating a more human society is an ethical challenge. The fight to maintain Norwegian business culture, Norwegian entrepreneurial culture and Norwegian solidarity between sectors and between regions is important. The Declaration of Adults states that: ‘The EEA Agreement provides the main basis for Norway’s relationship with the EU.’ And on to the government ‘is the subject of a national, independent and active assessment of the legislation resulting from the EEA Agreement’. Within this framework, Norway must pursue an active policy towards both the EU and other important trading partners. Norway participates on an independent basis in several EU cooperation projects and considers that this project work can be reinforced with benefit. Government parties have seen the special importance of facilitating the 1999 budget in order to reduce interest rates. The high interest rate provides a poor distribution of the tightening by the hardest hit being young in the start-up phase and especially small children’s families. The main priority of the government is to take a boost in health and care, district policy, family policy with the cash support reform and industrial policy towards small and medium-sized enterprises. Good framework conditions are important for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is also important to make the Norwegian economy less dependent on oil revenues into the next millennium. That is why the proposed tax snipers from the Workers' Party become so hopeless and give completely wrong signals to those who charge savings, time and energy to create their own jobs. Both the proposal for tightening the sharing model and the proposal for the removal of stock discounts will affect many small businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1674	When one follows what has happened in the Storting in the fall, one can quickly get the impression that politics is just about the game between the parties, about losers and winners, about cabinet issues, strategy and blackmail, Hagen boasts of how he directed Bondevik's cabinet questions in ours, and Bondevik boasts that he has managed to sit on his chair as prime minister longer than anyone had thought. But this is not what is important in politics – not the game, not the competition to create losers and winners. The important thing in politics is the results, the results we manage to create for people most in their everyday lives. Do people have work? Do children have a good school? Do the elderly get the help they need and deserve? Can people walk safely on the streets? That's what politics has to be about -- what we want to do for most people, and whether we can carry out what we dream of. In the 1997 elections, all parties presented their visions to Norway for the next four years. The central parties made it clear that they no longer wanted the Workers' Party at the rudder. They wanted a new course. More to the municipalities, was the message, a more environmentally friendly policy, a settlement with Difference Norway by investing in the elderly and health. And they wanted a settlement with what they called the right turn of the Norwegian society, the difference society that was created. In the fall we got the result of the new course in the government's own budget. The billions of the municipalities did not arrive. Now we hear about how schools are at risk of closure, and that welfare services are being cut off. Environmental ambitions are forgotten; environmental organisations miss Thorbjørn Berntsen. Elder action has been reduced by a cut of more than 2000 hospitalisation sites next year. And thousands of young people in the start-up phase – with large loans for housing and education – now, after the strong interest rate increase, really notice a Difference Norway. And the settlement with the right has become a permanent collaboration with the Right and the Advance Party. Much of this could have been avoided if the central parties had come to the Workers' Party. We were willing to go far in accepting the cash support to find compromise. But we could not accept the entire cash support, as the Government provided it. The government is fundamentally wrong if it believes that the Workers' Party should take part in their proposal to take sick pay from the low-paid, to take sick homes from the elderly, to furious kindergarten development and to take vacations from people most to pay a cash subsidy that the Workers' Party is in favour of. We take note that the Central Party can take part in it and break all its promises to carry out a reform that they really are against, but the Workers' Party will not. We are then described as being on the sideline of politics, that we are one of the losers in the game. But to us it's not the game that's important. I really think most people are tired of the game that's going on. For us, the political results are crucial, people's everyday lives. Bondevik would like to sung himself in the glory that he has finished the game so well that he can continue to sit on his Prime Minister's chair. But I think people who see that the school leisure system is becoming more expensive, that kindergarten expansion stops, and that welfare schemes are being cut down, aren't so much concerned that Bondevik became the winner in some game. The Workers' Party will continue to fight to ensure that people's lives get better, even if we didn't win through this fall. We want to work for a society where children grow up safely, where the nursery is there when they need it and not for animals, where the school gives the children the start of their lives they deserve, and where the school leisure system is not just an offer to the children who have parents who can pay for it. We want everyone to get a job for a decent salary and a good working environment. We will work to expand the care of the elderly for all those who have earned a better offer than what we are able to give them today. It is not true when it is said from this pulpit that it is the municipalities themselves who ask to have the hospitalization postponed. It's the government that's now cutting down on that plan. Many older people will never be able to get the sick home place that the center parties participated in promising them in the election campaign. We will work for the poorest people in the world to get more help from us in the rich North, and we will work for the environment to be at the forefront of our policies. Actually, there's a majority here in the Chamber too much of that policy. But that majority isn't used, because the center wanted it different. Unfortunately, what happened in the harvest has led us even further away from the society we dream of.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1691	The Labour Party sees it as an overall objective that people should be able to feel the security of the workplace, the security of housing, the security of basic welfare services. The main measure to provide such security is a policy that provides lower interest rates and prevents new price and cost increases. The Labour Party has therefore rejected tax proposals during the budgetary procedure which will weaken the competitiveness of industry and help to drive the level of costs up. We have underlined the importance of cooling the economy. The Labour Party has shown great willingness to contribute to finding solutions in a difficult situation. The working party has been open to find solutions across traditional dividing lines if necessary to provide the country with a sound budget. And the Workers' Party has made itself open to a solution with the Government, provided that the Government also will to find a compromise around the cash support, the will to put the whole thing ahead of a single matter. Today, when we deal with the budget of the central government, we assess the effects of cuts in the local economy, cut the measures for the unemployed, cut the unhelpful, it is therefore important to remember that this is a choice of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. They didn't have to. They chose to say no to a compromise on cash support, no to a budgetary solution with the Workers' Party. The price is that they are presenting today a budget proposal that few of us thought was center policy. Is it centre policy to reduce u-help? Is it central policy to cut aid measures against Eastern Europe with axe? Is it central policy to increase the proportion of medicines for children and the elderly? Is it central policy to postpone the development of nursing homes promised to the elderly? Is it central policy to cut the offers after school time to the small school students? Is it central policy to make it even more difficult for municipalities to maintain the welfare of the population? Is it central policy to privatize large parts of the old wine monopoly? In that case, center politics is something quite different today than it was 13 months ago. Then it was central policy to increase the appropriations for everything and everyone and to criticise the Workers' Party for not doing the same. At that time it was even central policy to be against the veterinary agreement and Schengen. It's not now. Today, when the members of the government have seen in the mirror and do not recognize what they have seen, they owe them to the Workers' Party. But the Workers' Party will not cut aid or the Eastern European measures. The working party will not delay the development of nursing homes for the elderly. On the contrary, we say and do the same after the election as we promised before the election. The working party will not increase the proportions of children's medical visits, as the centre parties will. The working party will not cut the whole day's offer in the small school. We don't want to reduce kindergarten development down to a historic low. On the contrary, we stand by the promise of full babysitting. The Labour Party will not cut the municipal economy. On the contrary, we are proposing an increase of nearly DKK 1 billion in relation to the government parties. And yet the Labour Party maintains the tightness in the budget that the Minister of Finance has told us is necessary, but that the government parties and the Right here in the Stortinget have left. Then you can slowly ask, what is it to rule? The dictionary says it's controlling. But then the government parties have to steer in the opposite direction of their own programmes. Or they don't control. And then they don't rule! Then they just sit in the government offices and are in charge. Perhaps we also have to ask: was the policy put in place before the central parties entered the government offices, closer to the programmes of the central parties than the policies being implemented with the central parties in the government offices? Norway needs a predictable and forward-looking policy. The Labour Party will have enhanced cooperation between employees, employers and authorities in order to secure jobs and renew working life. We want an active European policy. We want to modernise the public sector. We will make Norway less dependent on oil and gas through a broad commitment to education and research. I am pleased that these strategic approaches, this willingness to cooperate on the long lines of economic policy, are bringing together a majority here today. It is an important contribution to securing jobs and well-being in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1738	When the representative Schjött-Pedersen speaks out about the importance of keeping his own promises, one should, of course, sharpen his ears, because Schjøtt-Pedersen and the Workers' Party also have some historical experience of going out quite high in relation to making different selection guarantees – about abolishing health cows, investing more in the elderly – without necessarily having been implemented when they were in position. However, it is clear that the representative has a point in relation to the current government, when it was said in the Declaration of Adults that it would largely solve everything by spending more money, but has gradually come to realize that this was an unsustainable policy. If you read the Adult Declaration carefully, you can see that there are not exactly a lot of reservations that the declaration requires a certain development in the Norwegian and international economies. This is to be done because Norway can afford it. The consequences of overbidden policies are very often that those who are weaker initially are the ones that are also hit hardest. Of course, the high interest rate we have now received, which is twice as high in Norway as in the countries around us, has not reduced the differences. It has helped Norwegian business, and especially small and medium-sized enterprises, to have had significant problems, including people with large loans, student loans and housing loans. Now, of course, not all this interest rate increase is due to national policies and budgets. But since the government obviously believes that we can bring interest down by tightening up the budget, it also has to be that something we can do nationally, otherwise it would not have benefited from any of the measures that have been launched. And then I believe that we had tightened up for more last fall, just after the Adult Declaration was launched and it was very important for the Bondevik government to start showing that you were willing to spend more money, maybe the situation in the Norwegian economy would have been a bit better. At least it was less risky to tighten up last autumn, and it was also less risky to tighten up the revised national budget. It was not chosen to do so, at the price that we are now operating at an excessive interest rate in Norway. It's also worth noting that we don't get better health care and better education in Norway than what values are created for. There are many who are very nice to bet around with great promises. But if they cannot be financed, it ends up with a disproportionately high level of interest rates, a lack of confidence in the economy and less investment, and thereby increasing unemployment. The ability of individuals to take responsibility for themselves is reduced when taxes and charges are increased. This makes us dependent on public solutions. New demands for public intervention arise because it is considered natural to require public priority to one's own needs, when the public nevertheless covers so many others. The pressure becomes self-invigorating: a growing number of public demands for new tasks to be taken on by the public are producing tax increases and tax increases as a result. At the same time, the diversity of society disappears after all into public A4 schemes. That's why it's a little amazing here today, for example. listening to the Workers' Party and SV, which are concerned, among others. by the status of pensioners and the elderly. What do they do in the setting? Well, the special deduction that was lowered from over 17 000 kroner down to 12 000 kroner last year for the pensioners, which meant a tax tightening of 1 000 kroner, wants SV and the Workers' Party to stand where it was adopted last year. The Right Party and the Advance Party have had an impact on the Bondevik administration so that it will now increase up to NOK 17 640 again. Of course, this is also part of the calculation that is now to be done in proportion to the pros and cons. If people get to keep more of their own money, including older people, they can give more priority to their own lives. But there's probably pretty unknown thoughts on the left hand side. The values we create through the production of goods and services are, as I said, the basis for our private well-being and for the financing of public well-being goods. Therefore, robust and competitive Norwegian business is important. A high level of taxation dampens commitment and creativity, causing unfortunate distortions in the economy and leakages to the rest of the world. This makes the whole nation poorer. Norway is now entering a period of lower growth. The worrying international situation must be expected to have a negative impact, in particular on the profitability development of the competitive export industry. We already see an unfortunate change in employment development, with a reduction of 11 000 jobs in the competitive sector. It's a strategy to meet the challenges here the government now has to add up. We should also discuss how we can preserve our welfare society by once again doing our best to strengthen the growth power of the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1761	The sitting government wants to appear with a warm and caring profile that places values and human responsibility in the high seat. But value debate and coresponsibility cannot be seen detached from what the Government actually does, with the support of the Advance Party and the Right. Those who need the most support of society are affected by, for example: drastic reductions in labour market measures, in the school leisure system, in the commitment to progress in the care of the elderly, or in the weakening of the community economy. Now that we've had a couple of days to get into the civil agreement, another ugly profile also comes forward. The government is in favour of a price change in terms of our capacity for solidarity in Norway’s neighbourhoods. The budget rightly announces the continuation of Norway’s support for the political and economic reform process in Central and Eastern Europe, focusing on the environmental and human needs of our immediate neighbourhoods in North-West Russia. For these purposes, in 1997, the Labour Party’s last year of government, amounted to 428 million. kr. The budget adopted for the current year is 272 million. kr. Next year, after today's likely majority decisions, we're left with 55 million. kr. Some more drastic budgetary reduction, I think, is hardly seen in today's budgetary procedure. This puts a big question mark on Norway as a serious player in our neighbourhoods. It touches something more than our own interests in a narrow sense. This gives the impression that Norway, as one of Europe’s richest countries, is now building up its already too modest efforts in relation to our neighbours in the east. I also remember, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, many budget debates here in Stortinget, where criticisms from the Right in particular, but also from others, were deafening at the fact that we did too little. Now we're going to jumbo space in relation to our Nordic neighbours. This is, in particular in the light of the Norwegian no in 1994, in direct contradiction to Norway’s strong interest in being an active European player towards the emerging new Europe. And it's a bad signal to the tens of thousands of people, not least in our northern counties, who in the fall went man of houses to support needy people in Northwest Russia. For Norway, as the initiator of Barents Cooperation, this is particularly sad. This needs to be corrected, even if I assume that tonight's decision is inevitable, no matter how small it may be. At least the aid budget will not be reduced, as the Chairman of the Committee on Finance said today early. But what did the central parties of the Workers' Party ask for late last spring? A plan for stepping up assistance from 0.88 pst. For 1 pst. of gross national income. The plan shines with its absence, but in addition, the Government also leaves its promise to phase out expenditure on refugees in Norway from the aid budget. Instead, this practice is increasing by a total of 248 million. D to the displacement of real aid to the poor world. There is only one explanation for this, and it is not that Prime Minister or Foreign Minister suddenly thinks otherwise. What is the explanation, is that the central parties that usually hold the principles of co-responsibility so high in claim have made these principles as balancing items in the main case: the government's own survival. They needed short and good money to do the Advance Party and the Right Pleasure. It is part of this picture that Norway's participation in international peacekeeping operations next year, after all, will lie on a low ground after we have now withdrawn from the UN forces in Lebanon, otherwise an old demand from the Progress Party and the Right. It should plague more than the Labour Party that Norway may appear to be a small, rich and self-sufficient country. The future of the world and of Europe is also our responsibility. Security for Norway is illusory about the world around us being haunted by war, unrest and plague. Therefore, we must not weaken our ability to participate in international and regional cooperation, our ability to pursue an active foreign policy. Navigation may be a good job in the financial committee's back room, but it does not guide foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1784	In this financial debate, we see the outlines of a government with many and big problems. An increasing unemployment rate, high interest rates and low oil prices had not been a good starting point for any government. But it is not reassuring when we have a government that benefits from three different budget proposals to resolve the critical situation in Norway. I allow myself to wish a government that stands upright and takes responsibility for the budget that they have presented, which is actually proud of the elections and the results they have negotiated. I haven't met anyone, either by the members of the government or by the parties that surround the government, who said this was great, we're going to run through it. Instead, we have a strange situation where the purpose of the government parties is to be in the government position, while trying to shift the blame for their right triangle to another party, the Workers' Party. I can only say that I feel that it is problematic when the Vice-President of the Central Party Åse Grønlien Østmoe, on 17 October, states to the Nations that Jagland is responsible for political contempt, and Jagland's conduct will give more right-wing policy, while, of course, she fears what will happen to the welfare offer if the Right and the Advance Party have influence on the State budget. There are many thoughts to make about such a statement, but first I want to say to the Vice-Chairman of the Center Party: Please – not my bullying comrade. Rather, take the responsibility it is, according to the choices you have made. But then it actually happened. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have placed their hands on the budget following a deliberate election by the Centre Parties. This election they themselves have wanted. Yes, the head of the Center Party, Anne Enger Lahnstein, has even said that this cooperation with the Advance Party and the Right was better than having Jagland pursue his policy in the government offices. Before, of course, she has said that there are several intersections between the Workers' Party and the Center Party, but it is probably forgotten. I want to hear a little bit about what the Central Party means by political contempt, when they actually turn their heels that way. A constructive opposition is important and the Labour Party must be constructive and predictable. Interest has to go down. Unemployment must be prevented, and the taxes and charges we pay, which are actually quite difficult to obtain, must benefit, public services to the population, and they must not at all be used to pay those who do not want to use the good service offered by kindergartens. This government has promised a lot, both Kjell Magne Bondevik, who has said that Norway can afford to spend more of the oil money, and Johan J. Jakobsen, who in the election campaign had problems finding public areas on which it could be cut down without having significant adverse effects. They've just done it. They have joined the Right Party and the Advance Party to cut down on good services. Today, we see a central government that has reduced kindergarten development to a minimum, despite the fact that they have promised full kindergarten coverage in 2000. We see a Right that is willing to steal SEK 1.3 billion from the future generations by weakening the budget balance, and we see a progress party that promised cash support parents NOK 36 000 and that now pays only NOK 28 000. Lift fractures in all heart matters! And it has amazed me: why is it more important to keep the agreement with their budget partners in Stortinget than to keep what they have promised to the voters out there? They're the ones who live their lives. Regardless of which side we stand in the political struggle, let us at least have a government that is mature enough to stand in the elections it has made: to give the Progress Party and the Right an opportunity to build up the welfare state. No matter what choice the government makes, it's their own choice and their own responsibility. I can assure you that the Workers' Party will be an opposition that will never allow bullying to silence. By the way, what should this government do with more opposition – when they have Lundtigen?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1803	Many ask, When does interest rate go down? Those who are hardest hit by the very high interest rate are young people who are in the start-up phase, the business, the municipalities and therefore the welfare tasks, and the danger of new unemployment is blinking against us. Let's assume that over 1999, households will have an interest rate of about 4 pst. higher than what we could otherwise have had, after tax, it gives net NOK 20 billion more in interest for that part of the households that are in debt. It's a bill first and foremost the newly established and the families of children pay. Those who don't get hit are the well-established ones who have money in the bank. Therefore, it is important to pursue an economic policy that creates confidence. The decline in interest rates means improvement for families with children and young people at the start-up stage. Lower interest rates are therefore good generation policies. Lower interest rates provide better conditions for enterprises, in particular district enterprises, where debt financing is greater than equity financing. Lower interest rates are good business policies and thus good district policies. Lower interest rates are better for municipalities, which can then spend their money on the provision of services instead of borrowing rates, i.e. we get a good welfare policy. The significance of the oil price for price developments and thus for interest rate developments is probably real, but is not the complete answer. For example, Sweden has 5 pst. lower interest rate than us. As you know, they don't have a single oil barrel and the price of handling it. Nevertheless, they have created a very good basis for their economic development. 5 pst. lower interest rates in Sweden will soon be noticed in Norway, by taking a different route and by creating strong competitors for our Norwegian business. The budgetary agreement between the five right parties is not surprising. A majority of bourgeois parties naturally give rise to civil policy. It also means that the five bourgeois parties now, finally, many say, must take responsibility for the policy pursued and its results. We see from the budgetary agreement that children and young people do not get the service page well enough covered. Future education, research, school and its contents are being reduced. Our future depends on students and teachers delivering a high level of knowledge. This is jeopardized by the new course the five right-hand parts add up. The municipalities get too little to walk with, and the cancellation and closure of schools and kindergartens are notified. And they don't do this for fun. What's good about the budgetary agreement is that the people's deception can now end. The centre parties went to the choice of the slogan ‘New course for Norway’. They said they'd lead almost a working party policy plus a little bit more. Now we get a new course with a clear right twist. We get a budget tonight that moves Norway in the wrong direction. The Workers' Party's proposals for government budgets have more to do with municipalities and, therefore, with welfare, more to schools, more to care for the elderly – adapted to economic reality. We want more for service production and less for cash transfers to private individuals. That's our message. Neither does the working party protect the richest in our society, as the five bourgeois parties do. Indeed, it is not hostile to small enterprises to introduce obvious gaps in the tax system. Nor is it hostile to small business to remove a rule that gives sole proprietors and active owners 28 pst. tax on all labour income between NOK 680000 and SEK 3.1 million. kr. It is, on the other hand, bloody unfair to ordinary employees to maintain such a rule, as the five bourgeois parties now add. Civil policy brings results, just so bad it's in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-30.ana.ud1719e1818	The budget is now interrupting its negotiations, and a new meeting will be held at 9 p.m. 6:00 p.m. The first speaker at the evening meeting will be Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik.
