ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e42	The representative, Jan Simonsen, will present two private legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e45	On behalf of Carl I. Hagen and myself, I would like to make two legislative proposals, one on better possibilities for the police to investigate in order to detect the illegal possession of weapons, and one on access to the conviction of increased penalties for criminals convicted of multiple crimes at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e50	The proposals will be dealt with in accordance with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e62	Through Input. O. No 14 submits its position on Ot.prp. No 53 for 1997-98 on the law on intercommunal companies and the law on changes in local authorities etc., which is based on NOU 1995:17. The Committee is in agreement with the Ministry and the legislative selection that the laws governing municipal, county and intercommunal enterprises, in particular those with a commercial element, need to be cleaned up. I assume that the various parts themselves will give the following reasons. I would like to point out that the reactions in the hearing conducted by the Ministry after its legislative selection have been largely positive. In other words, it's an extension law. The Committee has had a hearing with the Norwegian Press Association, the Association of Energy Supply, the Norwegian Municipal Association, the YS-KFO, the KS and the Norwegian State-Authorised Auditors' Association, and the reactions were also largely positive to the legislative proposals in the Proposition. Some objections in areas such as adding circumstances, adding co-destination, audit, publicity and openness were. The main objective of the legislative proposals is to provide a range of forms of organisation that allow municipalities to choose a form that is adapted to the specific area of activity. It is the principle of company law that underpins the legislative proposals. The legislative proposals are an expression of a balance between the importance of the freedom of leadership in a company and the importance of political control, and, in many circumstances, a compromise between cross-interests is needed. The majority in the committee believe that the legislative proposal does not provide a reservation for some areas of municipal service production. We in the committee agree that municipal enterprise should still be able to organise itself as a limited liability company, and not through special rules such as now, but under the stock laws. In that case, no form of organisation other than the form of a limited liability company is necessary to establish a limited liability company. We found it unfortunate that intercommunal companies with limited liability outside the stock law are not regulated. The proposal to repeal the exemption in Section 18-2 of the Share Act 1 is therefore right, and as a result, such operations must in future benefit from the form of a limited liability company. Kommunelova's § 27 is not good enough when forming intercommunal companies. One should not have special rules in company laws for municipal companies, and therefore there is a right to abolish the right to set up intercommunal companies under the company law of 1985. The Committee agrees with the proposal for a law of its own for non-restricted intercommunal companies – the law on intercommunal companies. The Committee’s plurality is very important in establishing clean forms of organisation with clear lines of responsibility. The majority further argues, like the ministry, that a system in which the board is directly subordinate to the local government and the daily leader and is also directly subordinate to the company's administration ensures this. The Committee does not agree with the Ministry that the Administrative Manager should be able to hold the function of managing the undertaking’s day-to-day manager. The Committee believes that such practices could lead to an unfortunate double role for the Administrative Manager, as he/she, when dealing with some types of matters in practice, would be both subordinate to the local government and to his/her executive. The Committee therefore believes that the municipality's administrative director should not be the daily leader of a municipal enterprise. However, the Committee will be able to open up the possibility of granting exemptions in exceptional circumstances in cases where the enterprise has very few employees or the municipality is small. I would also like to point out that the Department is working on a problem-solving issue related to the place a company has in municipalities with parliamentary governance, and we expect that we will get it handled if not for too long. Furthermore, the Committee agrees with the Ministry's assessments and proposals in relation to the accounting principle of municipal enterprises. The budgetary and accounting system shall follow other municipal activities, but it may be decided that a municipal enterprise shall keep accounts in accordance with its accounting law. In this way, the Ministry will assess whether the enterprise or type of enterprise in question should be able to keep an accounting record according to accounting law. We don't find it useful for the rules to be designed so that there is an obligation to keep an accounting on both of these principles at the same time. Furthermore, when the entity has an accounting obligation under the accounting law, the auditor carrying out the audit shall be registered or authorised by the State. If the accounting law is chosen, this will have consequences for the selection of the auditor in the enterprise. I submitted its amendments to the new law on auditors, cf. Ot. pp. No 75 for 1997-98, does not have an auditor in municipal AS information obligation for control committees or other municipal bodies. Such obligations must be included in the statutes of the undertaking or company. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, in its reply of 22 October 1998, to the Committee, points out that in the wake of the NIBR research report entitled ‘A study of the supervisory and supervisory systems of municipalities and counties’, to be completed in 1999, it would be natural to raise questions about the internal control system established by the new municipality. The Committee believes that the administrative audit of the municipal audit and control committee must be retained and developed, and that this must be ensured by the municipal statutes of the companies/activities. In addition, it must be assessed to give the municipal audit the same right to information when it relates to municipal enterprises, municipal limited liability companies and intercommunal companies which the Riksrevision has in respect of the whole state limited liability company, share law § 18-5. The Committee therefore asks the Government to return to Stortingen with a review of the subject matter and any legislative proposals that take this into account. The Committee is amalgamated in the form of an organisation of inter-communal companies which will be subject to the new law and, furthermore, does not require the approval of the company agreement by the State. When it comes to publicity, I will refer to the handling of St. Announcement. No 32 for 1997-98, on the principle of public disclosure in the administration, and the respective fractions' comments and proposals in the Innst. S. No 21 for 1998-99 ; that processing has just finished. The Committee supports the Committee's proposal that intermunicipal companies should be subject to accounting obligations under the Accounting Act. Here the committee disagrees with the department. We suggest that the owners can decide in the company agreement that the company can instead keep accounts according to municipal accounting principles. The Committee believes that this implies that companies which keep accounts under accounting law should be subject to audit obligations under the statutory audit law and that the statutory auditor must be registered or authorised by the State. In this context, it is therefore necessary to provide the Ministry with the necessary powers to provide special information on the keeping of accounts by accounting law, with regard to the harmonisation of such accounts and the rules on financial management. Today, we have been informed by the Ministry that because the Committee proposes to amend Section 27 of the Municipality of El Salvador, concerning intermunicipal companies, the company must have an accounting obligation under accounting law, and therefore a change in accounting law will be necessary. This will be in Section 1 other sections of the Accounting Act, where the accounting obligations are calculated according to that Act, as well as Section 2, where exemption and adaptation are permitted. I will then, on behalf of the Committee, confirm that one wishes to make the necessary adjustment in accounting law as a consequence of the Committee's proposal on inter-municipal companies in Section 27 of the Kommunelova. I would again like to show that the aim of the bill is to provide a range of forms of organisation that are adapted to the different activities of the municipalities and counties. The Committee therefore believes that the proposals provide a basis for better use of resources both in municipalities and in county municipalities. So some comments from the Progress Party's fraction. I want to refer here to our general attitude to that of concession management. In this context, I would also like to refer to letters from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs of 16 November 1998 to the Committee on the Management of Ot.prp. No 53 for 1997-98 and § 41 of the Intermunicipal Company Act. In the letter, the ministry is afraid of losing political governance if one cannot process their rights as soon as a share is sold or the company is changed. We in the Progress Party see no danger that private individuals may buy up in a municipal limited liability company with up to 1/3 of the shares before one must have the concession management of the company's rights. We will therefore, together with the Right, vote against the proposal for the second sentence of the fourth paragraph of Paragraph 41. We will also propose that the Government submit proposals to amend the industrial concession law, so that exceptions for intermunicipal companies can be made. We want municipal enterprises and intercommunal companies to be confined to municipal tasks where service production is integrated with management tasks. Municipal enterprises engaged in the production of services should, as far as possible, be established as own legal entities and preferably organised as a limited liability company. Such an organisation will facilitate the promotion of community activities. Competition promotion is a decisive commitment to improving the economy of municipalities and ensuring the quality of services. In this context, I would like to stress that the separation of municipal enterprises into own legal entities with limited liability, in the first row of a limited liability company, is the best way to achieve clear lines of responsibility, visibility of costs and efficient financial management. I agree with the Government that there should be no mandatory representation for those added to the board. The plural is not that. I think the local government is the body that should decide on this based on local assessments. It is a self-evident matter that they should be added to withdraw on matters that deal with the exercise of authority. It is important to stress that the separation of intercommunal activities into legal entities with limited liability, in the first row as a limited liability company, is the best way to achieve clear lines of responsibility, visibility of costs and efficient financial management, and that it can also improve the finances of municipalities. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions made by the Progress Party and the Right in the setting on page 16.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e142	The representative of Solholm has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e147	In this case, as in Case No. 3, the employees' rights are to be weakened. It is the employees who threaten the principle of governance. The Workers' Party believes and has experience that there is cooperation with the employees that produces results. That's the way it is in private business, and that's the way it is in public. Everyone agrees that municipalities should be as effective as the rest of the business community. Then you have the employees with you. That participation also requires something, makes the employees responsible, gives insight and obligations, we know that, and it is not unknown to anyone that you are deprived of the right to participate and to participate in and decide, is also the willingness to give the small extra to a lesser extent present. So my questions to the representative Solholm are: why is the Progress Party so afraid to legislate the right of employees to sit on the board of a municipal enterprise? Does not the representative feel that it is better to have employees with him than against him?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e158	We in the Progress Party are not saved at all to add them to the layer. But when it applies to municipal enterprises, it is stipulated in the law that this should be part of the municipality's legal body, to say it like that. Therefore, it is not necessary to include them in each municipal enterprise, because there may be just as many if one of them is separated into municipal enterprises. They are represented on the administrative board of the municipality – what is to cover the municipality as a legal person. If you open them up, like multiples do, you might get a double run of them added. There might not be any interaction there, and that in many cases this will seem unfortunate. Therefore, in the Progress Party, with the support of the Right, we found that as long as it applies to municipal enterprises, it is right that a user of the current form of organisation, i.e. that the administrative selection is the representative body of those added to the municipality and the measures and actions to be taken within the municipality when applying their rights.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e163	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e166	In the opinion of the Municipal Committee on the Law on Intermunicipal Companies and Municipal and Municipal Enterprises, we find a unanimous committee on many points, as the rapporteur has also explained. But although there is a lot of consensus, I believe that the Labour Party and SV on the one hand, and the Right and Advance Party on the other, have completely different approaches in terms of what should be organised as municipal and county municipalities. We agree that changes in the municipal sector lead to the need for new ways of organising municipal activities. Therefore it is positive that it now opens up to new forms. And we in the committee have tried throughout the setting to simplify and make businesses an attractive form of organization. In the Workers' Party, we believe that municipal enterprises should be an alternative to organising parts of the municipality that are of a commercial nature, without having to use the form of a limited liability company. We are uncertain whether municipal and county enterprises are suitable organisational forms for all types of tasks in the municipality. We are among others uncertainty as to whether undertakings are an appropriate form of organisation in the care sector, in hospitals, in hospitals or in schools. We agree with the Government that what has been proposed in Ot.prp. No 53, is not a solution for these areas, and we therefore support the ministry's view that the organisation of central welfare tasks should be explored separately, including alternative forms of organisation for, among others. hospitals shall be reviewed. Oslo Municipality is currently discussing the possibility of reorganising its hospitals, where enterprises are an alternative. The national assembly of the Labour Party on the weekend also said something about county and municipal enterprises. We believe that there is a need for a national assessment of different forms of organisation in the hospital sector. We believe that there is a need to discuss whether different forms of organisation for the country's hospital may have an adverse effect on, among other things. regional responsibility and other tasks of hospitals in addition to their role as a county hospital. Before this is properly investigated, the organisation of hospitals as a limited liability company should not take place. A regional hospital, such as Ullevål is, has a responsibility for the whole region. If the Municipality of Oslo decides that it should be an AS, I think the health regional cooperation that has now started can become more difficult. Although the Right and Advance Party accepts that municipal and county authorities can be an alternative way of organising municipal operations, it is clear throughout the reasoning that, in their view, the form of a limited liability company is the best way of achieving clear lines of responsibility, making costs visible and having efficient financial management. We in the Labour Party do not agree with that. With the changes in the law made here today, the lines of responsibility will be clear. By keeping accounts in accordance with the accounting principle, such as in an AS, it should be easy to see the costs and to have efficient financial management. Then it seems to me that it is because of the privatisation tool Right and the Progress Party prefers an AS over an enterprise. The representation of employees in municipal enterprises is subject to disagreement in the Committee. An important issue for the Workers' Party has been that employees' rights and employee participation should not be weakened in relation to the current situation. Rather, we believe the opposite: we believe that it must be an objective to strengthen employees' representation, and propose a change to this point in relation to the Government's proposal. The proposal is based on the fact that a majority of the employees of the undertaking may require that up to one fifth of the members of the board of directors with alternates be elected by and among the employees. I would like to pay tribute to the Central Party and the Christian People's Party, who are opposed to the Government's proposal here and support the Workers' Party and SV so that there is a majority in favour of strengthening the employees' rights, and that this is legislating, so that we do not have a long debate on this in every case on the statutes of municipal enterprises and in every election forward in the municipalities. Why the Right Party and the Advance Party are so afraid to give employees the right to sit on the board of a municipal corporation is hard to understand. Of course, a director's representation gives an important right to the employees, but it also obliges the employees. And what's wrong with that? No, now we have to work to get the employees on the team, that's what creates smaller conflicts, gives insight and understanding and creates results. And I guess we all agree on that is important. In particular, the parties to the Right and the Advance Party, which are so concerned with competitive outsourcing and privatisation, should be concerned with the results. I would like to address minority motion No. 1, which the Working Party and SV have referred to in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e192	The representative Signe Eye has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e195	The government has in Ot.prp. No 53 for 1997-98 submitted proposals for the law on intermunicipal companies and the law on amendments to the municipal law, etc. on municipal enterprises. The Ministry's bill is based on the Municipal Committee's investigation, "On the organisation of municipal, county and municipal activities", NOU 1995:17, which was issued on 23 May 1995. The investigation concerns in particular activities with a commercial element. The proposal to establish a separate law on intercommunal companies has been overwhelmingly endorsed in the consultation round. The investigation and the proposition provide a long-lasting description of the applicable right in an unclear area. The legislative proposals represent a necessary clean-up. The Municipal Law of 1992 gave municipalities and county councils great organizational freedom. However, Section 27 of the Municipal Act did not provide the necessary clarity and clarity in what has become increasingly relevant in today's situation, namely cooperation between municipalities through intercommunal companies in order to carry out municipal and county tasks of a commercial nature. The proposals limit § 27 of the municipal law to intermunicipal cooperation measures which are not separate legal entities. The proposals also replace the rules on municipal enterprises in Section 11 of the Municipal Act with a new chapter on municipal enterprises. The aim of the changes is to provide the municipal sector with options in organisational forms adapted to the broad range of activities of municipalities. A joint committee also agrees with the Ministry that there is a need to clean up the laws governing municipal, county and intermunicipal activities, in particular those with a commercial element. In the opinion of the Ministry, the organisation of inter-municipal cooperation on key welfare tasks should be explored separately, giving the majority of the Committee its full support. Furthermore, the Committee agrees that municipal activities should be organised as a limited liability company, not under specific rules, but under the Share Act. The Committee also agrees with the proposal for a new form of organisation, namely municipal enterprises. The Committee agrees with its own law on intercommunal companies. The new law becomes mandatory through cooperation in the form of a partnership. Municipal enterprises are given a clean form of organisation with clear lines of responsibility by means of the bill. However, the Committee considers that, as a general rule, the administrative director of the municipality should not be the Executive Director of a municipal undertaking. Only in exceptional cases may a derogation be granted, precisely in order to avoid an unfortunate double role for the administrative director of the municipality. The majority of the committee is subject to the rights and obligations of employees when the municipality chooses to organise its activities as a municipal enterprise. The Christian People's Party considers it important that the co-responsibility of employees for the performance of the municipal corporation is underlined by their right to require participation in the board of directors. Government parties in the Committee do not see it as a way of reducing municipal autonomy by granting employees the right to co-determination through representation. Such a right emphasises the co-responsibility and obligations of employees in relation to the municipal enterprise. Earlier today, the Stortinge has debated St.meld No. 32 for 1997-98 on transparency in administration. In this respect, the various fractions have given their comments. The majority of the municipal committee agrees with the Government that there should be a closed board meeting in municipal enterprises, just to be equal to the private sector. At the same time, the majority believe that it is possible to decide by local decision whether to open board meetings. The accounting principles have been discussed in the Committee, which does not consider it appropriate for the rules to be designed in such a way as to require the simultaneous keeping of accounts under the Accounting Act and under the Municipal System. The Committee points out that administrative audits, which are part of the municipal audit and control committee, need to be maintained and developed and that this needs to be ensured through the statutes. The Committee also asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a review of the subject matter and any legislative proposals. In the case of intermunicipal companies, the Committee suggests that the owners may decide in the company agreement that the company may keep accounts in accordance with municipal accounting principles. However, the Committee's view is that inter-communal companies are primarily required to have accounting obligations under the Accounting Act. The Committee's proposals continue to maintain municipal freedom of choice and self-determination. The Christian People's Party shares the view expressed by the Advocate-General on behalf of the Committee that the Government must come back with a necessary legislative amendment to the Accounting Act in relation to this proposal. Furthermore, the Committee notes that the legislative proposals are within and adapted to the EEA legislation, thus ensuring a level playing field between municipal and private providers of goods and services. The Christian People's Party advises the central parties to support the legislative proposals and the committee's recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e223	There is little political insomnia that is expressed in the Innst. O. No 14th @item: inlistbox The entire committee has accepted that this cleanup done here was necessary, and has accepted a need for the principal legislative provisions and forms of organisation for the various activities that are being carried out here. The reason for this large, seemingly superior deal is that the policy is moving far by the way to other arenas. The proposition and setting have no bearing on the action to be governed by the respective law. Quite rightly, it is decided that one of these should not provide organisational forms that are customizable for authority and management in a narrow sense. The organisation of key welfare tasks has wanted the Ministry to come back to a special arrangement. However, the draft law on inter-municipal tasks has no reservation for some areas of activity. Right will continue on a continuous basis the stock laws as the relevant business and service production framework. Therefore, our view will be that the specific legislative provisions on municipal enterprises and intermunicipal companies should in practice have very limited use. Only in those companies where management tasks and service production are integrated, there is a real basis for this law on municipal enterprises and inter-municipal companies. However, even if business should be at the heart of the distribution and legal process, it is still the mixing management tasks that legitimize any special public opinion and management audit assessments. The Committee's doubts concerning the administrative director in a double role, i.e.: also as a daily renter in municipal enterprises, I believe that companies with a high level of service production, and therefore commercial activity in municipal enterprises, must be included. The Right Party and the Advance Party shall make the proposal for local freedom in the event of the grant of employee advisory rights. This is necessary since the Committee's plurality has gathered on another proposal, contrary to the Board of Directors. The Right and Advance Party sees no danger in the partial privatisation of inter-municipal power plants without renewal of concession treatment, and therefore goes against the second sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 41. We also want to point out our remark together with the Progress Party on effective free competition in public procurement. As I said, most of the policy has shifted to how to use the laws or how a political governs disentangled activities against municipal corporations, intercommunal companies and limited liability companies. Therefore, sometimes there is uncertainty as to what would be the best legal formulation, simply related to the lack of clarity of local policy use.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e238	The President will take note that the time for the morning meeting is running out, but will propose that the meeting continue until the agenda for today is completed. - It's seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e242	It has been said that there has been little political disagreement in this matter, and that is probably true, but in some areas there is some disagreement. I'll say a little bit about it, but the starting point here is that there is a need to change, renew, improve and strengthen the public sector, and that this is part of that work. For SV, it is important to find good mechanisms that can dampen the increase in the outsourcing of competition and AS-certification in the municipal sector, because it results in a significant weakening of democracy – by democratic control, by democratic responsibility and governance. It has been stressed that, in the case of the municipal enterprise model, it is not used for key welfare tasks, at least not until further investigation has been made. And we agree. But we see that it can also be used that way, and that's one of the reasons why we have found it necessary to reinforce the view that municipal companies can have the opportunity to choose the accounting form of the Accounting Act, because we see that part of the reasoning around and wanted to use AS is the visibility of the costs that arise in such an operating form. It may also be that it is actually appropriate to make the costs visible in a different way from now. So it has been said that you perceive it so that most of what is done in this law now has been neat. I guess we disagree with some of the points, and that's the points that we've picked up, and that I'm going to refer to. One goes on publicity as a principle. Before today, the size has been the subject of the public disclosure. As you know, SV is not in the Judicial Committee and is therefore a bit difficult to put forward. However, we have promoted a principle proposal in the Chamber today which has been turned into a transfer proposal and which is based on the same principles, namely that public activities should be covered by the Public Service Act. The point of that is not that we believe that all things should be conducted for open doors. There are legal barriers that can exempt matters relating to business considerations that cannot or should not be made known to the public, and there are also in general government, which is governed by the Public Service Act, bodies which almost always lead their cases to closed doors, and which also have documents which are exempt from public disclosure by the nature of the case. So we think it's more right to have publicity as a principle, and then use the possibilities of exception. That's why we're making proposals to this effect based on a comprehensive view that applies to all forms of organisation. We also want to make use of the proportionality principle in the municipal law rules for elections to bodies under the two new laws if a member of the bodies to choose board or representation here wishes to do so. For municipal enterprises, this is okay. In the case of intercommunal companies, we propose this because we believe that this is the right principle. In terms of employee representation, the Workers' Party has also referred to SV's view, so we just stick to it. That's another side of the change we don't think is neat. It is the relationship between a municipality/municipality and this law if parliamentary form has been chosen. I am aware that the Government has intended to return to this issue in its full scope, but just as far as who is to appoint the board of directors when organising it in this way, it cannot be done in any other way than that it is the council, whether it is the council of municipalities, county councils or city councils, which must have that authority, otherwise the system will become completely undefiled. I have also understood that the letters received from the department, that there is no disagreement about this, but that in a way they are asked to wait to see it as a whole. I'm afraid that if you leave this piece standing, it could claw to relationships in some municipalities that are now about to want an AS model. And now, if you say that this insolence is allowed to exist in relation to the business model, I'm afraid that those who want the AS model will get another good argument for choosing it, so I ask the Stortinge to consider this proposal in the light of it. We have also been concerned about the role of the control committee and that it should be maintained within the various forms of organisation. I am very pleased that a unanimous committee also wants to be able to find out about this, and that you are concerned about keeping the role of the control committee. I will then be allowed to record the suggestions from SV, which are referenced in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e261	The representative, Karin Andersen, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e264	There have been two main objectives with the draft legislation we are dealing with today. One is to clean up a unclear legal situation related to the alternative organisation of municipal activities. The second is to provide appropriate forms of organisation for those parts of the activities of municipalities that have a commercial character. The need for such a review was highlighted in the examination of the new municipal law in 1992. The municipal law commission, which proposed the law on new municipal law, did not find it possible within the framework of its work to do this job. It was therefore recommended that this be investigated later. The need was obvious. In particular, this applies to inter-municipal cooperation. For intermunicipal cooperation, no substantial investigation work has been carried out since the 1920s. In the proposal for the law on intercommunal companies that the Government has now promoted, a substantial part of the need for the form of organisation will be covered. For the forms of organisation offered, emphasis has been placed on a balance between the consideration of municipal governance and control on the one hand and the consideration of the freedom of corporate governance on the other. This applies to both municipal and intermunicipal corporations. It goes without saying that such a bill will contain some compromises. To a large extent, the principles of company law have been taken into account. However, there has also been a need to make modifications to take account of the need for political governance. It is therefore not the way to understand this bill that it has intended to offer forms of organisation adapted to the exercise of public authority and management activities in a narrow sense. Here there is reason to place greater emphasis on considerations other than those underlying this bill. In particular, inter-municipal cooperation on key welfare tasks may provide a basis for further investigation. The legislative proposal implies freedom for the municipality to choose between an offer of forms of organisation. Whether these forms of organisation can be used for tasks assigned to municipalities by law will be based on an interpretation of the law that assigns the task to the municipality. If a hospital can be organised as a municipal enterprise, this will be due to an assessment based on the hospital law. However, a municipal enterprise will represent an alternative that is closer to the county government than the form of a limited liability company will. I noticed that the committee has made a few changes to the bill. One concerns the question of whether the employees are required to be represented on the board of municipal corporations. In this respect, the Committee has agreed that employees should have an unconditional right of representation. My proposal is based on the municipal law's general rule that no employees are entitled to representation in municipal bodies when we ignore the administrative committee. I therefore requested that the local council decide whether the employees should be represented in the company's board of directors. I don't have any bastant opinions about what's the best solution here. That could be good arguments for both of these solutions. As I said, I have been concerned that the employees of the entity should not have a special job with better rights than other employees in the municipality. The enterprise is part of the municipality as a legal person, and it is the municipality that is an employer. At the same time, however, there is reason to stress that the enterprise should serve as an alternative to, among other things. organisation as a limited liability company, and there may be grounds for emphasising the solution of company law, where employees are entitled to representation when the activity is of a certain size. As indicated in the amendment tabled by the Committee, employees may require that up to one fifth be chosen by and among their employees. This implies, at the same time, that employees are not entitled to representation unless the Municipal Council decides that the Board of Directors shall have a minimum of five members. The Committee has also made a change in the legal regulation of the accounts of intermunicipal companies. My suggestion was that such companies should initially keep accounts under municipal law. The Committee has here returned to the legislative committee's proposal, which required the company to have an accounting obligation under the Accounting Act. On this issue, too, there is a choice between private-law business and more municipal administration. The crucial issue here is not what legislation should apply. The most important thing is that the Ministry of Finance is authorised to make such adjustments as are deemed necessary in the Accounting Act. The rules on financial management in an intermunicipal company are closely linked to those applicable to municipalities. Adjustments to the accounting system will therefore be necessary if the company is to have an accounting obligation under the Accounting Act and not under municipal law. The consequence of the Committee's proposal is that inter-communal companies must be included among those subject to the Accounting Act, while providing for the basis of the Accounting Act to make the necessary exceptions to this Act for inter-communal companies. I have noticed that the rapporteur in this case, Mr Solholm, has today confirmed on behalf of the Committee that this is the last thing Stortinget wants.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e285	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e299	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 50]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e313	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 50]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e326	Seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Signe Eye on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 2 and 3, by Lodve Solholm on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 4 – 7, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The suggestions are entered on pages 15 and 16 of the option. Proposal No. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, 3 will be sent to Stortinget. Karin Andersen – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e345	I would ask that proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party, the Government, as the Government has announced that they will come back with this matter, and I think they will come back with this wording. I therefore do not want the proposal to be put to the vote. With regard to the other proposals, I ask that it be voted separately, so that it is possible to vote in favour of proposal No. 5 and 6 individually, because I've been signaled that someone might think so.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e352	The President wants to ask whether it applies to whole proposal No. Four, which is made up of a lot of things.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e355	This applies to whole proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e360	The President would then point out that in proposal No. There must be more proposals for transmission and the wording of those proposals must be changed so that there is a wording in line with the transmission. Is that how Karin Andersen thought it? - It'll be nod. Then the president will try to bring it in during the voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e365	As far as I can see, it is in the proposal No. 4 and 5 proposed texts of the ordinary law. They do not contain a'request to the government', which is the requirement of the Rules of Procedure if proposals are to be sent from there to the Stortinget and put on a map, as I see it, there is no possibility here. Either the proposal is drawn up and promoted in another way as a normal proposal in the Stortinget, or it has to be voted on in the Odelstinget, when the proposal is formulated as a legal text. I can't remember that it's ever been sent to the government's proposal from Odelstinget, which is actually a legislative text proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e370	That's probably right, what's being said now. My question is then – I am asked for the President’s guidance: Is it that if this proposal is voted on today, and falls, the Government does not have the opportunity to come back with a similar proposal to the Storting in the current session and get it voted on?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e375	In the regulations, there are limitations for large-scale representatives when it comes back with proposals similar to those that have been put down in the same session – the limitation applies to large-scale representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e378	I would then like to maintain the proposal and have it voted on today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e383	The President then perceives that voting becomes as the starting point, that proposal No. 4 is going to be over as it is in the setting. Mr Morene has not asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e489	To the second paragraph, there is an aberrant proposal, No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the law on intercommunal companies, the following changes are made: § 6, second paragraph, is replaced by:In the choice of representatives of the local government or county council, § 35 paragraph of the municipal law applies. Four is equal to. ‘... First, the vote will be alternated between the recommendation from the Committee to the second paragraph of Section 6 and the proposal from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e507	So it's going to be over the first, third and fourth paragraphs of Section 6.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e559	For § 9, there is a proposal, no. 1, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, to the new eighth. The proposal reads as follows: «The law on intercommunal companies makes the following change: § 9 eighth paragraph is replaced by:The meetings of the representative are held for open doors, unless the representative decides that meetings are to be held for closed doors, or that certain types of cases are to be dealt with for closed doors. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e576	President! I have advised my group to vote incorrectly. I'm asking for cause!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e583	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e624	To the second paragraph there is an aberrant proposal, No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: « Paragraph 10, second paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:The members of the Governing Board shall be elected by their representatives, except as provided for in this paragraph. In the election of members of the board of directors, Section 35 of the Local Government Act applies. 4 equivalent. The representative cabinet may remove at any time a member of the board that it has elected. ‘... The President suggests that the recommendation of the Committee be replaced by the recommendation of the second paragraph of Section 10 and the proposal of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e640	So it's going to be over the other sections of Section 10.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e676	Paragraph 12 contains a proposal for a new fifth subparagraph, proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The law on intercommunal companies makes the following change: § 12 fifth paragraph shall be replaced by the following:The meetings of the board shall be held for open doors unless the board provides for meetings to be held for closed doors or for certain types of cases to be dealt with for closed doors. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e691	President! I voted wrong! I had to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e696	President! I should also vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e701	The proposal from the Socialist Left Party is then against 7 votes not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e1014	The progress party has warned that they will vote against the fourth term, the second sentence. The President will first vote on Paragraph 41, first, second and third paragraphs and the fourth, first sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e1024	The President will then vote on Section 41, fourth paragraph, second sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e1035	It is then contested by Section 41, fifth and sixth paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e1043	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e1050	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e1294	There is a proposal from the Socialist Left, no. 4, to § 62 new No. 2 The proposal reads as follows: «In the Municipal Act of 25 September 1992 no. 107 is amended as follows: Paragraph 62(1) 2 shall be replaced by the following:In municipalities or counties with parlamentarical form of government, the local council may decide for itself to elect the Board of Governors. [[new]] Where such a decision has been taken, the Council shall take the place of the local authority or county council in relation to the other provisions of this Chapter, with the exception of § 63. § 62 becomes § 62 nr. 1st@item: inlistbox ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e1385	For § 65 nr. 3nd sentence introduces an aberrant proposal, No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Communeelova of 25 September 1992 nr. 107 is amended as follows: § 65 nr. The second sentence shall be replaced by the following:The Statute may provide that up to one third of the members of the Board of Directors shall be elected by and from the members of the undertaking. [[new]] ‘... The President shall first add votes between the recommendation and Paragraph 65. 3nd sentence and the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e1405	The President shall then vote on the other paragraphs and sentences of Section 65.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e1498	There are two different proposals from the Socialist Left. That is proposal No. 5 to § 68 new No. 5 and proposal No. 4 to § 68 nr. 8 new last sentence. The President will first vote on the recommendation to § 68 nr. One, two, three, four.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e1510	There will then be a vote between the recommendation of § 68 nr. 5 and proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party, which reads: «In the Municipal Act of 25 September 1992 no. 107 is amended as follows: § 68 paragraph 5 shall be replaced by the following:The meetings of the Board shall be held for open doors if no decision has been taken by the local government or county council. [[new]] Doors shall be closed if a narrow court is to process information which is subject to the obligation of professional secrecy laid down by law. § 31 nr. 3 shall apply mutatis mutandis. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e1526	Paragraph 68, no. Six, seven, eight.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e1534	The President will then vote on proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party, to § 68 nr. 8 new last sentence. The proposal reads as follows: « § 68 nr. The last 8 sentences shall be replaced by the following:When parliamentary governance is in place, the Council shall be notified. [[new]] ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e1547	The President then allows us to vote on § 68 no. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e1578	There is a proposal from the Socialist Left, no. 4, to Section 70, new last sentence. The proposal reads as follows: « Paragraph 70 of the last sentence shall be replaced by the following:In municipalities and county councils with parliament taric form of government, recruitment authority may be added to the local council or county council. [[new]] ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e1729	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-23-lower.ana.ud2382e1736	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
