ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e31	The representatives of Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, Grethe Fossli, Finn Kristian Marthinsen, Laila Kaland, Ingvald Godal and Jørgen Kosmo, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The Workers' Group has applied for leave from the representatives Anneliese Dørum and Erik Dalheim on the 7th and 8th of December to attend a Children's Conference under the direction of the Nordic Council in Stockholm. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The representative of Akershus County, Rikke Lind, and of Buskerud County, Frank Willy Larsen, are invited to attend the term of office.Frank Willy Larsen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Erik Dalheim.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e81	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e86	I suggest Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e91	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt is proposed as the president of the meeting today. – Other proposals are not available, and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt is considered unanimously elected president. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning sitting, if necessary, continue beyond the scheduled time. 15.00 until the current map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e116	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 10 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 50 minutes, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party 20 minutes each, Right 15 minutes, the Centre Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party, Left and Twist Party elected 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines of response following the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and following contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e127	On behalf of the Defence Committee, I hereby present the budget-inner. S. No 7, which covers Framework Area 8 and therefore covers appropriations for the Department of Defence Ombudsman, the Directorate of Civil Protection under the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Maritime Preparedness under the Ministry of Industry and Trade and, last but not least, appropriations under the Ministry of Defence for 1999. As a basis, St.prp. No 1 and St. Prp. No 1st@item: Appendix No 1st@item: inlistbox Appendix No 1 deals with the financing of Norwegian participation in UN operations in Macedonia, or said in a simpler and more understandable way: UNPREDEP in FYROM. Funding covers the first half of the year and means a supplement to the 60 million budget framework. kr. In addition, Framework Area 8 has been increased by an agreement between the Right and Advance Party and a somewhat persistent grouping of government parties, which resulted in an increase of 450 million as the final result. kr. It gives Framework Area 8 a cost page of NOK 24 716 358 000 and an income page of NOK 821 280 000. The attitude is unanimous, which is the first time, as far as I can recall, in modern times. In addition, four verbal proposals have been put forward, with the Right and the Advance Party joining forces in two, while the Progress Party is the sole proposer for the other two. The suggestions are printed in the setting, and I use the opportunity to record them. Why this consensus? To put it simply, in my opinion, it is because the budget that the Minister of Defense provided was so full of holes, probably better described as craters, that it was obvious where they raised 450 million. kr had to be placed. Therefore, these funds were distributed to the Army by 181 million. NOK 53 million in defense of the sea. NOK 66 million in air defence. kr, the poor coastguard with 50 million. NOK 100 million. kr for investments. With this agreement, one must also assume that the Government's support troops in the Defence Committee had realised that the draft budget presented was almost panicked. It is difficult to interpret differently from the fact that the Minister has had to go to desperate cut at the bottom of the line by the Minister of Finance. Because it can't be that the Minister has done this just to get a debate on the defence budget going, as someone has put it out? In many ways, this comes to a strange light by the fact that, at the hearings in the Committee, it is not entirely clear what this restoration work will require. And it might tell you more than just how arbitrary the cuts in the budget proposition must have been in the final phase. Therefore, it is also good that the agreement with the Right and the Advance Party contains a passport to return to the costs of the protection obligation in the revised national budget and, where appropriate, by regrouping. The remarkable and disturbing thing is that as late as 18 June, the Stortinget joined the government's proposal for a financial framework for the next four years. And there was also agreement on the Government's proposal that the foreign services should be financed in addition. So in both of these areas, the government broke with its completely fresh assumptions. And one question in this context may be: Did the Minister of Defense, June 18th, when the debate took place in Stortinget, that fulfilling what the Stortinget was just about to decide, would be impossible? That's the question I'm going to go to the Minister of Defence. This gives government parties a clear credibility problem. Now the government parties in the setting have tried to explain the economic movements that have occurred after the proposition was made. And then you say, well, at one point, you're able to add 320 million. kr. Yes, it was as a result of the fact that you had already started talking to the Progress Party and the Right that you managed to reach 320 million. kr. So in the final phase, we had 130 million. kr to which gave the sum of 450 million. kr. And it seems that the government parties are enjoying this. I have a great deal of understanding of that when the goal was essentially a quite different one. But then you don't have to act like this is something that's forced on you. I would like to see a greater joy and enthusiasm in the committee comments related to the fact that you really are able to do something to improve on a quite impossible situation. I also want to give the Workers' Party a small reward because in the regrouping it has been possible to return 75 million. kr for material investments, the money that was wisely taken out to finance the SFOR power. It's a part of improving the overall picture. Otherwise, I must say that I am somewhat disappointed that the Labour Party in its draft budget too did not have the power to achieve the objective it had. If the Government's draft budget had gone through, the situation would be very serious, because it was concerned, simply to balance the protection obligation in order to achieve a balance in a budget. It is not acceptable in my opinion and in the opinion of the Progress Party. We've drawn the long lines, and then it doesn't help to talk about the year of exceptions, because after the year of exceptions, it always follows the year of exceptions, it's probably the rule here in the house, and then it will be. And what such a meaningless cut would mean would be that you give a terrible signal to the youth who's going to go out and do the service. They would have to wait until October to do this service and probably get graduated around Easter hours. What about the command to train the soldiers? They would walk there more or less with their hands in their pockets. What kind of signals do we send? What about the contractual command to ensure that the training can be carried out? What about the use of the soldiers after a snout of 9 months of service, which is therefore not professionally sound? In addition, what would happen to basic command training, to those who are going out and practicing and have no one to practice — what are we sending to young people? That's what the Right Party and the Advance Party have helped to get in place, and I expect a little bit more enthusiasm for what you've done in this way. Now, of course, money means a lot to keep the large organisation Defense in operation. But we are facing significant challenges in the coming time. The signals given through the setting of the long-term message are considered, both as a function and as a duty of protection and structure, as well as the whole of the operating apparatus. It is not going to pass that ‘burning’ of money on operations and moving to investment has not been successful. We've gone into a year when material investment stops, you pay bills and actually have trouble doing that too. That's why we made it through the equation to do a little bit better on this. The management apparatus is obviously too large in relation to what is to be directed. We have supply command structures, we have the Defence Management at Huseby, we have Defence Command South Norway and Defence Command North Norway, heavy equipment that it is necessary to have, of course, to operate what is to be operated, and to plan for the war structure. But we have to look in the eyes that it's necessary to do something on top to keep the pointed end, and in the so-called pointed end it is cut quite dramatically. It is important to strike a balance in the defence on which we are going to build, and that will be the biggest challenge. I notice that there is a significant, serious issue in Europe related to Defence. The Western Union and the EU will obviously form new dimensions, where we remain outside. The United Kingdom and France are coming together. Our dependence on the United States in the alliance is significant. The challenges facing Europe in the area of security policy are great, and will be there – and we need to address them. So finally, the Council of State has asked for support for the financing of internal coastguards and for the bridge service at airports. The Committee has contributed to this.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e153	Hans J. Røssorde has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e158	The representative Røsjorde stated that the Minister of Defence's budget was full of holes and even to scratches. Furthermore, he stated that there was a budget that was in panic. I do not know if there is any of the same wording and the idea behind Røsjord's opinion to Nettavisen on 5 October, where he says that the government's proposal for a cut in the defence budget would lead to the defence business being completely paralyzed. Now Røss grounde has clearly stated that the defense is no longer paralyzed, but rather upward, despite holes and wounds in the thigh. The difference between being paralyzed and moving the defense seems to be 450 million. kr. I think Røssjorde said that they mentioned 450 million. Does the freedom of action and movement of the defence constitute kr? Furthermore, the defence organizations do not seem to be like lambs, but rather have howled like wolves. Has the defence, in the opinion of Røssord, lost any of the ability to convert in the light of the realities of the first question?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e167	It was a bit of an ointment from someone who has deprived himself of the ammunition, but has been helped to carry it in place again. I want to point out – and I did not use any of my comments – the primary draft budget that the Progress Party has been behind, which is something quite different from what has been achieved through the negotiations. It's a $1.1 billion addition, and it would have helped bring the defense into what I would call safer paths. And then the gap gets significant. So I don't understand why the representative Holstad wants to challenge me on this. The Progress Party has presented its primary budget, where we take the consequences of what we said on 18 June, while Mr. Holstad and his associates so far from having taken the consequences. We've actually had to force them away. And at the top of it all, in the regrouping they're going to send back 75 million. kr taken from tangible investment. So if you now ask about 450 million. kr is essential if the defence is to be able to hump on, yes, this is the difference in the indebtedness of the protective mass and in trying to improve it. And that's what government parties have been helped to do, and you should be happy about that. We should have seen that there would have been a majority of the proposals of the Progress Party, which is almost equal to the Right, but unfortunately it is not a majority, and then we do what we can to repair what the Government has destroyed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e176	I agree with the views of the President. It was important for the Workers' Party to try to reach unanimity, because defence and security policy is not a matter for one to stand out in a small country if one can find agreement. However, I would like to have a deepening of the leader's side of the four proposals that lie here. I must say that I understand the resistance of the Progress Party to quota on an ethnic basis based on the attitude of the Progress Party, and I also understand the resistance of the Progress Party to seven new musical positions in the light of their attitude towards culture, but what I do not understand, and I would like to have a more detailed explanation of, is the proposal to retrain Russian officers. It is true that thousands, even tens of thousands, of Russian officers have become eloquent in the name of disarmament and peace. Defence in Russia has been reduced from millions to 1.2 million soldiers, which it is now down to. North-West Russia is unstable, and it is social unrest. Is it not important for the Progress Party, for the committee leader and defence friend Røsjorde to achieve stability and democracy in North-West Russia and our closest border regions? I would therefore like to ask the question: is not the Progress Party interested in stability in our neighbourhood?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e183	The answer to the last one is yes, but then I ask the representative Halvorsen to see how the proposal was designed. It says: ‘The use of funds above the Ministry of Defence’s budgets for re-schooling large numbers of Russian officers is not acceptable.’ make use of the substantial resources available to the aid budget or funds which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would otherwise have to find. But this is and must be a Russian responsibility first and foremost. In fact, we have problems with keeping our own soldiers in the barracks and giving them an education, and then, in my opinion, it can't be right to use the Ministry of Defence's funds for this. I leave the discussion as to whether this seems stabilising, but the funds will then be taken from the budgets of other departments, and not from the Ministry of Defence. Had we had a wealth that has never been there, one might have said it this way for fun, but I have to admit that it goes far beyond my understanding that this should be burdened in this way. And I think a lot of people will have trouble understanding that. The Russians are building new nuclear submarines -- I was saying -- so the nails are faking. They can't, we know, clean up what they already have, but they have money for what they want. They will also have to deal with their own problem of persuasion, as all other countries will have to do.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e188	The party of progress was able to stop part of the cut on the defence budget. In order to do so, they had to cut down on less important – I assume – things like kindergartens, school-time arrangements and crime prevention. Is it the policy of the Progress Party that the defence comes first? The second question is with Kosovo and the bombing there – without a UN mandate, on which the Storing was involved, and which now seems to be going well. But this old man could have gone very wrong. The United States now wants to strengthen the role of NATO. The strongest of their rights is to be indebted, and they will now prefer to operate around the world as a world police force. What did Red Earth think, which is usually in its basic position every time the Americans say something, and answer, "Consider," about such a development? And finally, Frigatsaka is not for treatment today, but one is working intensively to figure out how to build the frigates. Can the Progress Party be a guarantor that the Norwegian industry receives this assignment?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e197	To take the last one first, if SV's defence policy position had been in place, it would not have been necessary at all to raise the question that Langeland now did — there would not have been room to build a single frigate, probably we could pick up some cannon jams out of the museum shed. So I have to say that what's important is to get built frigates in a proper way at the lowest price possible. That is what we should aim for. Then we also save money for other, absolutely necessary things. Then progress in the ministry's work shows where we end up. Then he asked if defence was the absolute most important thing for the Progress Party. Yes, defense is important. When the representative then refers to the settlement, this is like any other settlement: it's giving and taking. We got a census in a number of important areas, one of which was defense. We've said we're satisfied, and we are. What about NATO and the United States? On the part of the Progress Party, we have supported the idea that NATO should be able to engage on its own initiative, and the justification is relatively simple. The UN as a body, and the Security Council, are not always so flexible as to deal with the challenges that lie there. Do you have to sit and wait for people to be killed and murdered – is that what Langeland wants? Or do you want to have a device that makes it possible to intervene when it is obvious to everyone that someone has to intervene? When the UN is paralyzed because the Russians don't want to – sometimes there may be others – yes, someone has to take the initiative, given that you have the device. That device is NATO, and without the United States in this role, it doesn't work. It's just that SV is satisfied with what NATO has done, for example. in Bosnia.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e206	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e210	I noticed that the committee's leader answered my colleague Gunnar Halvorsen's question as to whether he also felt a responsibility to see housing for former Russian officers as a broader responsibility. I understood that the representative Røsjorde agreed, but that other departments should take it, and that one should see it – even if he did not use the term – as part of a further security policy responsibility. I agree that this is the case, but in budgetary terms we have come into the situation that the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has got its budgets for the cooperation programmes with Eastern Europe and Russia reduced from about. 450 million. SEK last year to SEK 270 million. kr this year, and by the assistance of the Right and Advance Party to 55 million. kr for next year – in other words, the most dramatic cuts we have ever seen, I believe, in some important budget chapter, at least in the history of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Unfortunately, it says something about the majority's attitude to help prepare the basis for a safer Europe of prosperity and development in our neighbourhoods as well. Through these dramatic budget cuts, the possibilities of playing other instruments in our neighbouring areas have been drastically reduced, and I sincerely hope that the bulk of the population will realize what they themselves have done, and that not least the Right, which has held a high profile here in previous budgetary proceedings, will ensure that this calamity is corrected at the first crossroads. Otherwise, I think that is the basis for saying that we have a very traumatic time behind us for the defence, not least for months after the budget was presented by the Minister of Defence. So there were few months after the Stortinget had entered the long-term lines for the development of Norwegian defence through a wide range of treatments. It is unnecessary to say in this somewhat shrewdly-occupied assembly that long-termity and predictability are essential prerequisites for the pursuit of defence planning. We cannot pursue defence policy on the basis of the cyclical approach, which would mean that we should have more defence in good economic and prosperous times, where the Minister of Finance is reasonably satisfied, but if the Minister of Finance has a problem, we should have much less defence. We've never done that, and we should never do that. We were therefore faced with the fact that the budget was presented, that for the first time we had a cut of a magnitude that we haven't seen in modern times in a single financial year, and it certainly noticed a few months after the Storting itself had given its support to long-term framework conditions with a zero percent growth in the first two years of the long-term planning period and then half a percent in the last two years. It represented isolated on the operating side, relative to the current year's budget, a cut of 2.5 pst, but well over 4 pst. on the basis of the assumptions set out in the long-term programme, as peacekeeping international operations, known only outside the framework of the second half of the year. Of course, it is positive in itself, but it was from 1 January that should have happened. What we in the Labour Party viewed as the most serious thing about the operating cuts that are now proposed was the impact on the initial service itself. There is no doubt that the initial service is a support bar as part of the protection obligation, a support bar in the Norwegian People's Defense and a basis for the anchoring of the Defence throughout the Norwegian community. And if one of the Ministry's proposals on the word, which the committee unfortunately did not do, then Norwegian youths would have to let it scour and go from midsummer, when they were to be called in, to far into October, without being able to start a full school or study year, and perhaps without the possibility of permanent employment because they were to enter the Defense after the fall. Not to talk about the officers who had to go and wash their thumbs because there were no personnel to train and practice, not the first time obliged to take care of themselves. When one went to such a drastic proposal, which, to date, was not very detailed, it was of course an image of how far we have, after all, been cut in the defence, that the Minister of Defense saw the need to go not only to the bone but into the leg, by attacking a support beam as the first-time service in the Norwegian defence, through the savings he more or less voluntarily took inward and into the budget. And what's even more eye-catching is that the consequence of such a cut was in no way illuminated in the actual budget proposal. On questions from the Committee, the Minister for Defence, in a letter dated 13 November, said: ‘In principle, the Ministry has estimated a saving requirement of approximately 300 million. crowns to stay within given operating limits. The Defence Command has not yet completed the necessary calculations on the extent to which the various measures outlined for the implementation of the initial service must be used. These are planned to be forwarded to the Ministry at the beginning of December.» I don't know if the Council of State has got them now. At least the Committee did not receive them, and it did not have it at the time when the vote was due. However, it became clear during the ministry's consultations with representatives of the defence sectors that it would have some very serious consequences for the defence operation if one were to do so. And we clearly express this alarmingly – perhaps unwelcomely alarmingly – through a majority vote from the Committee, where we express it this way: ‘The majority consider it very critical that the Ministry should make proposals which have such serious consequences for a Norwegian defence support, the general duty of first-time protection, without at least ensuring that the Stortinge is provided with an adequate basis for decision before the committee is required to be set up.’ I hope the Council of State has read this carefully and will ensure that this does not happen again, because it is therefore hopeless for the Storting and for the Committee to deal with such a basis for decision. And had not the state council been rescued by the gong through an injection of 450 million. We had now been in a situation where we had to adopt such a cut without overlooking the consequences for the weapons. In that case, the Council of State would have come back once in December, after the budget had been adopted. This cannot be the case whether the Storting should assume the primary responsibility – not just co-responsibility, but the primary responsibility – for the development of the defence in the country through, for example, the development of the defence in the country. the annual budgetary procedures. I agree that in many ways it is a historic brand day when we have here a unanimous agreement on a defence budget for the first time in many years. However, it can well be seen as a ‘society at the bottom’, based on the fact that there have been so many problems now that it has been necessary to agree on the most important at least. Within the framework of its alternative budget, the Workers' Party found that it was able to provide the Defence Agency with an additional 300 million. kr in addition to the proposal of the Government. In isolation, it's clear that it's too small. However, it was sufficient to correspond to the figure of the Minister of Defence's own estimate of the savings needs of the first-time cut. And it is politically and psychologically interesting that when the government parties came up with their offer in the process, it was 320 million, 20 million above the Workers' Party's offer, enough to be interesting in the further budgetary negotiations with the Right and the Advance Party – as it is known here in the house – with the result that we got a phase of about 450 million, which I now see in a defence policy context of course is even more satisfactory. However, neither the Right and the Advance Party were able to deliver in relation to their primary positions, and of course this is related to the fact that the defence budget is not debated independently of the general budgetary situation. And when the Minister of Defence first releases his spirit from the bottle and presents a budget line that is so irresponsible in its overall context – where the Minister of Finance has had to take account of the fact that he will have to recover the effect of over-exploitation of DKK 5 billion adopted in this Chamber by the same number of deposits a year ago, resume the effect of cash support and other proposals that contribute to the use of society’s resources – it goes without saying that the defence budget situation cannot be detached from a comprehensive budgetary policy. And I suppose that's the basis that the Right Party and the Advance Party have also ended up below their original budget level. I don't think any of us, whether they belong to the two parties or the centre parties, for that matter, or the Workers' Party, are going to hoot over these processes, but I am pleased to say that at least we have now received a budget that corrects the worst accidents at the submissions of the Minister of Defence a few weeks ago, and that is how we have a better basis for running the defence in the coming years than if that budget proposal had been adopted. I also find it necessary to draw attention to the fact that the majority of the Committee assumes that what we have now lost in relation to the long-term programme's assumptions – I will tip it off at around 550 million. kr – we will correct for the next three financial years, so that a real outcome of the long-term programming period is achieved with the zero growth assumptions for two years and 0,5 pst. in the following two years. It would be interesting to get the Minister of Defence's comment on that remark when he later in the debate is going to make his statement. With regard to the other parts of the budget, individual members of the Workers' Party's fraction will deal with the arms and other relevant issues. I would like to draw the attention of one area, where the Committee, in a unanimous remark, has taken up a comment on the guidelines for the development of defence in the future. Whether we now focus on one or the other perspective in describing the future tasks of defence and the international framework conditions, there is every reason to believe that the special forces of defence will become more important in the coming years. Should we find ourselves in the unfortunate situation that we need to reorganise the land defence further – please beg if I have to use such an expression – it is clear that the Special Forces of Defence will have further strengthened their role in providing increased flexibility and ability to meet changing challenges, both in terms of the defence of the invasion and territorial area, in the enforcement of sovereignty on the continental shelf, in the prevention of terrorism, but also in international and allied peace-keeping and peace-building operations. It is therefore interesting that the entire Committee, on page 13 of the vote, asks the Ministry to consider making proposals in accordance with these points of view in relation to the examination of the draft budget for the year 2000. I hope that the Council of State will also endorse this unanimous remark in a positive way.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e238	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e241	During the throne debate on 14 October this year, the representative Godal wondered – with good reason – that the census contained only one sentence on the defense. He also pointed out that in the government's defense budget proposal there was cut into the leg, as he himself said. He criticised the government's budget quite strongly in his article and called it almost an SV budget. He further pointed out quite strongly that the Workers' Party should do what they could to correct this. The working party came back with an increase of 300 million. kr, which he himself has been in for today – not very impressive in relation to the Godal suggested. Godal may think 450 million. Nor is it so impressive, but this is a compromise that the Progress Party and the Right have had to agree to in order to save a budget. The primary budget of the Progress Party includes an increase of approximately DKK 1 billion. My question to Godal must then be: Does this modest addition to the defence will of the Workers' Party reflect? And is he himself satisfied with 300 million. kr in addition?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e250	I think maybe I got that line in front of me through my post. It goes without saying that there's no dramatic difference of 300 million. SEK and 450 million. kr, but I think that our alternative budget was instrumental in creating an exit level for the budgetary negotiations between the Government Parties and the Right and the Advance Party, which produced a result that now everyone thinks they can live with. In that case, there is no bad result from the budgetary procedure in isolation. But I don't think there are any of the members of the Defence Committee who couldn't imagine a billion dollars in addition to the defence budget, in line with the long-term programme. If my fellow representative wanted me to say that, I can confirm that I would have been most satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e255	The Labour Party has, both in advance of the debate, in the debate here today and in part also in the vote, criticised that the assumptions in the long-term communication, St.meld. No 22 for 1997-98, with regard to appropriations not followed up. Now is not the time I've been in here, so very long, but I've been told that St. Announcement. No 16 for 1992-93, i.e. the previous long-term message, was not always followed up by the funds that were a prerequisite of the Labour Party Government. At times, it was quite dramatic to use a well-known expression from the debate that has taken place. Although long-termity and predictability are important for the defence, there have been and will also be fluctuations in the defence budget. Does the representative really think that there is consistency between the actual appropriations set up by the Workers' Party in the financial position and the level of criticism they have maintained? And does the representative not agree with the history of his party that the long-term message should be a plan document and not an automatic admissibility document?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e264	Of course, it is true that there have also been cuts in the defence budgets before. The biggest cut I can remember from my time in government, although I was not responsible for that budget, was a withdrawal of 600 million. kr in unused investment funds, which had the background to the fact that the progress of the projects did not allow these funds to be disbursed. I believe that there is a sad case in terms of the possibility of planning a long-term defence, but it is, after all, something other than cutting into the leg of the defence in such a way that the resources that are already there are not used. So it's not about adding new resources according to the long-term assumptions, because of course we should also be concerned about that. But even more seriously, it's when you go into the defense's operations, dock ships and boats ashore, leave planes on the ground or cutters in the initial service. It's the qualitatively new thing about the cuts that were proposed in this year's government budget, and to a degree that is more dramatic than what we've seen in recent times in terms of the operational side of the defense. That's where the big difference arises. But that is to say, as the representative is of course as aware as I am, that no party is exempt from seeing the relationship between the total budget and the defence budget. That's why the defense works best when it's in order in the janitorial affairs of the Ministry of Finance, and that's not what it is now. It was not during the budgetary procedure this year, it was not during the budgetary procedure last year, and so is the defence.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e269	I'm not going to refer to the throne debate – then I was so in agreement with my name brother as I've never been before, and leave it as a goal that we might be able to do it once more in the future. What Bjørn Tore Godal said about cut, is not entirely correct. I have gone back and looked at what had to be added in the previous long-term to come in accordance with the regulations. In 1994, there was $1 billion and in 1995 a total of $1 billion. Since then, it was getting smaller and smaller. It was in the previous government's period. What makes this year's cut so dramatic compared to the previous cut, which was larger, is that now it's snoring all the way to the leg, so now it hurts so much more when we have to cut. If we go to the Yellow Book and look at the development with regard to which we use the money during a period when the state budget has increased from approx. $300 billion to $500 billion, we see that the defence budget is flat or has a slight drop, while other budgets are going up. In health and other areas, there is a dramatic increase. This makes me think that the argument for Bjørn Tore Godal is a little weak. When we do that, we have to try to keep a line and not see it in the context of everything else, because then we get to the glacier. What I had hoped for when it came to our biggest party and choose our state-leading party – at least they would like to be – is that they would be on their own long-term messages so that it could be more conservative as Bjørn Tore Godal demanded. In the Right, we can't do anything every year, the same thing in the Progress Party, and then I thought the Labour Party should be able to do it too. Then there will be a multiple to implement the long-term messages consistently, and all the problems that we are now dealing with would not be there.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e280	My co-representative, Mr Godal, has not been able to obtain a budget line in accordance with the assumption of the long-term programme. We've got a 450-million phase. kr, and that means that none of us are exempt from the budget's iron laws when we come to the Chamber and are going to create budgetary options that are going on. But my ideal form of treatment of both the defence budget and, for that matter, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget is as follows: I believe that this room should agree jointly on what is needed to ensure our international security policy and foreign policy framework conditions in order to ensure the best possible security for Norway, and to play a role in our neighbourhoods in Europe and in a more global context. Then we define one level of those budgets and distribute the rest to everything else. I believe we owe that to future generations if we are to ensure that we have a long-term attitude to our international framework conditions. It should be an ideal for dealing with these issues in the future. And I sincerely hope that in all parties we could perhaps agree on such a description of the tasks, although I know that in a situation where, for some reason – I would say the sitting government – we have problems with getting the ends to meet, of course, everyone will argue about the use of the resources. And it's not like this in any party, except perhaps in the Progress Party, that the defense is on the top of the agenda, if the old and sick and nurturing and the children and all the other central purposes also feel exposed through cuttings and through painting in budgetary processes both in municipalities and county municipalities and at state level. Here we all have a problem if we're going to be able to create opportunities for a change in the attitude pattern in these areas. I think that may be the main challenge if we are to have stable budgetary conditions in these areas in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e287	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e290	Let me first of all be glad to say that we have a unanimous position on the distribution of funds within the framework. It is also good that the centre parties and the Progress Party and the Right through the agreement found that they could increase the defence framework by 450 million. kr. I can say this is good even if the government's tightening proposal was not adopted. The draft budget was designed to meet an economic situation that required a tightness of NOK 9 billion. The tightening up of the defence budget was carried out in those areas where there is at least a negative impact from a long-term perspective. Now the majority has arrived at a slightly less strict line – about DKK 7.8 billion. This includes, among other things: as a result, the defence no longer needs to take as much of the common cause as intended. I must also be allowed here to comment on a little of the debate that was swirling around after the draft budget on 5 October. The Labour Party's leader of the fraction went out with a high level of cigarry and a great deal of irresponsibility and that it was dramatic for the Defense. The reduction of 595 million. kr was quickly referred to as NOK 1 billion and above it as well. In the evening post on 7 October 1998 Bjørn Tore Godal stated: ‘The working party will do everything in its power to rectify the draft budget’. And in the same paper of October 21, 1998, we could read: «Godal has suggested that the defense must have a billion to maintain the level that the Government itself has set in the long-term message». The majority of the long-term notification consisted of the Workers' Party and the Centre. Now that we know that the sum of the working part plus the sum was 300 million. kr, there is not a complete agreement between the argumentation, comments and the size of the money bag. After this heart attack, I would like to make it clear that the security policy base of the long-term message is established for the central government. So when SV thinks that the reduction in relation to the long-term message is new tones and a turn towards their vision, I must probably disappoint them. The uncertainty of the security policy situation requires a nationally balanced defence in order to solve varying tasks. The defence shall continue to possess the capability of time-limited invasion defence in one part of the country at a time. Defence shall also be capable of providing territorial defence, presence, intelligence and incident and crisis management. In addition, military cooperation with our allies and an active Norwegian international commitment is of great importance in securing Norwegian security and in helping to resolve conflicts where necessary. So to international peace operations and funding of these. Here I would like to make it clear that the government's objective in line with the long-term message is to raise the allocation to this outside the defence framework. This is firm. In the 1999 budget, the Government did not have the power to do so until the second half of the year because of the economic situation. However, the agreement agreed to return to the financing of international peace operations in the revised national budget and in the regrouping proposal in accordance with the intentions of the long-term communication. The Labour Party also has a note where they disagree with a unilateral Norwegian liquidation of UNIFIL in South Lebanon. It was the Government's original wish to maintain the UNIFIL exposure. But because of the recruitment situation, we were forced to choose between battalion exposures in Lebanon or the Balkans. The government then chose the Balkans, but we offered the UN to stay with 200 staff. This is what the United Nations chose not to take advantage of, but rather to upgrade its commitment to Macedonia. That is why, at the United Nations' request, we are contributing 160 people in UNPREDEP today. The bodies of the stockpiling have been duly consulted in the process. The recruitment situation regarding our international peace operations will be highlighted in a big message about international peace operations coming – tentatively – in the next session. We can't send out people we don't have – even the competent government of Bondevik with an excellent defence minister can handle it. As regards the regrouping proposition, which we also have to deal with today, I refer to the submissions that come, among other things. by the rapporteur of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e312	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e316	I registered that the representative Eriksen was satisfied both with the minister and with budgets – everything! And I assume she was also satisfied with the fluctuations in the budgets. Now it's not my job to defend Bjørn Tore Godal, but I thought knowingly that high cigaretteing was more the trademark of the sitting Prime Minister. I would like to ask the representative Eriksen: What happened between 18 June and 5 October – since the aim was cut firmly on 18 June and then away from the targets on 5 October? What was it that changed so dramatically? It could have been interesting to know. I expect the Minister of Defence to come up with this as well. And then I will ask my colleague: is it absolutely right for the Christian People's Party to salve a defence budget with the length and content of the duty? Is it satisfying, does it feel good? And is that how you should prioritize?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e327	Yes, I am satisfied with both Minister, Government and Budget. The government showed responsibilities and provided a budget adapted to the economic situation. What changed since 18 June and until the budget was presented, I think we could all look through the communications we received in addition to the summer on the economic situation that was quite acute and difficult. Then the government took responsibility, it showed a responsibility and delivered a budget with a budget of approximately 9 billion kroner, and it managed in a very good way. Then I would like to stress that the long-term message is not an automatic admissibility document, but an action plan that we will naturally strive to fulfill as best we can. So to the question of whether I think it is a good situation that the obligation to protect was balancing post. From a long-term perspective, a reduction in one coal in the mobilization army will have the least dramatic consequence compared to quite a number of other cuts that could have been taken. I think that the priorities that the Minister of Defence did when he was going to reduce in relation to the long-term communication were done where, in a long-term perspective, there were at least negative consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e338	The representative of the Christian People's Party is pleased that the Minister of Defence and the Government did not get their 800-million cut. kr. It is amazing in itself that one does not support the Government's policy. Having said that, I have a few questions for the representative Pedersen – now called Eriksen – I came up with something. Is the representative happy with this agreement that you have made? It simply involves some consequences. Is the representative happy that one has to cut into things that are probably less important for the Christian People’s Party – cut into crime prevention, cut into the school-time arrangements, cut into kindergartens, cut into criminal custody? The representative must be very pleased that one has got these good cuts, which must then be in relation to the Christian People's Party's policy, as the representative is so happy. This will turn the representative from SV on. If a person can also say something about the view of the frigates to be built, if they are to go to the Norwegian industry, the representative from SV would also be happy to hear it. Finally, Tray SV? No, what disappoints SV when it comes to the Christian People's Party and any party other than SV on the Stortinget, is that it looks like they're still living in the cold war. The enemy is on the verge, and we have to spend money on the defence budget. It surprises me and disappoints me that it is not possible to make creative recordings of how to adapt your defenses to the new era. Obviously, the defense must live as if the Cold War were still alive.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e347	I am pleased that the Government's proposals were not adopted, because that budget was proposed to meet the economic situation, to ensure that the economy is balanced. When it turns out that you can solve a little bit in relation to that, I think it's excellent that the defense now doesn't have to take as much of the common virtue as it had to. Do I have the satisfaction of the agreement? I do not know if the representative from SV believes that a settlement will be made so that then we say that and we want that, you get nothing and done with it. This is not the case for a budget debate in relation to a compromise. Then you give, and then you take. You have to be involved in cuts you don't like, and you also get things you like in a deal. That's how it works. So relative to whether I think it's okay with all of these cuts, it's so that someone cut I don't like, other things have become very good in the deal. And I'm very happy that there are at least two parties in the Grand Duchy who have shown accountability by entering into a compromise and having adopted a budget. When we see how the leadership of the largest party here couldn't help to reach a compromise, I think it's top-notch that we have two parties that agree to a compromise solution in accountability. Then you give, and then you take, so in general I'm very happy.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e354	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e357	I would first like to say a little about the security policy background of the defence budget and the situation we are in. There are a number of defence politicians – prominent ones – who are walking around talking about the fact that there is no military threat to Norway. I think it's an unfortunate way of expressing itself, because it has the consequence that the Norwegian people can get the impression that those who are the foremost in this area, think that eternal peace has come to our earth, and that's what's not known. The fundamental security policy fact for us is that a few miles outside our borders find the only concentration of military force that can destroy large parts of the United States and Europe in half an hour or so. And we also know that if there is a small conflict, the same where – it may be in Kosovo, in the Gulf or anywhere – and it gets an east-west perspective, we will immediately be in focus too much attention because of our closeness to this very sensitive area. Therefore, I believe that we should take with us the great uncertainty that we are living with, not least because this hood just outside our border is disposed of by a regime that is totally unseemly. No one can know today who controls the triggering button on this hub in a few months or years. When it comes to the budget, the right has always taken hold of the long-term message. This means that we evaluated it so that to achieve the measurements that were set out in the long-term message, we had to have 1.5 pst. growth in the budget, as the head of defense pointed out. What has happened in the fall, in my view, has only underlined that the head of defence was right in this context. We've taken that into account, and that meant that we had to add the 815 million first. NOK that was cut, and then we had to add 1.5 pst. i.e. 345 million. NOK 1,1 billion – we cut a little bit here and a little bit there, so the net increase was NOK 1,1 billion. It was then to execute the long-term message. To my name brother, I would like to say: If the Labour Party had been on the long-term message, there would have been many for it in Stortinget. We in the Right don't have multiples, we don't have multiples together with the Progress Party once. But together with the Labour Party, we want it, and that's what makes the big difference. When it comes to the government's proposal, I have to say that after the debate we had on the long-term message about how necessary it is to achieve consistency between objectives and means of action when it comes to resources for defence, which is the major fundamental problem for Norwegian defence, it was probably disappointing that we got a proposition, a defence budget, with the huge cut of 815 million. kr, and not only that, but that one made the first-time service a balancing item. It is totally hopeless if the first-time service is now to become a balancing item in the annual budgets, so that the arrangements for its implementation for the next year are determined just before Christmas or maybe a little after Christmas. It'll be completely hopeless. It is as hopeless that the school year should be agreed in connection with a staging proposition just before Christmas – just as hopeless for the command as it would be for the teachers. I can hardly say how bad I think it is, and the consequence and conclusion of what has happened in the fall must be that it must never happen again. Changing the length and content of the first-time service is okay, we do it all the time. But it has to happen in its own propositions, as one has always done before, so that it can be implemented in a reasonable way in time. When it comes to the proposal for a reduction in the Coast Guard, we also see it as very unfortunate. It is being given more and more important tasks, not least with the new things that are happening in this area – Schengen, etc. – and then it's not the way to cut it, so we're against it. By the way, I would like to say that it was not only what went on the first-time service, we were very sceptical, but also the reduction in command training that was in this, and not least that not everyone should be called in. This means that a breach of what Stortinget has stressed year after year is necessary, namely that the principle of equality must be respected if we are to have a duty of protection in our defence. The defence is an organisation composed of a number of different elements, all of which know: crew, equipment, training, education and facilities. In order to maximise the impact of the resources made available, it is very necessary to be able to think in the long term – it is absolutely crucial. Only in this way can a few things work well in a perspective of time, and only that way can one also avoid monthly misinvestments. For this reason, I hope that the national parliament of the country can now finally, after the turmoil we have had in the fall, be able to implement defence policy in such a way as to ensure that we are guided, thereby maximising the amounts that we invest for that purpose. I have to say that it was extremely strange that during the fall there had to be so much pressure to get the government to join in on a scheme that was – at least somewhat, if not in full – according to their long-term message three months ago. That we had to hang on for weeks and almost put them on life before they went along with it was awfully strange. When it comes to the revised budget that we have received, I am pleased that the first-time service can be implemented in accordance with the original plans, that all the redundancy that the Minister of Defence had seen going on around the departments can be disregarded, and that they can work properly. I am pleased that there is something more to material, although it is too little in relation to the need, and I am pleased that international operations are now to be financed outside the budget. That's absolutely necessary. They're often in a hurry, and in previous years it's all too often happened this way: there's a task that we have to attend – we all agree on – but when it's financed, do it by taking away material purchases, and so it gets so dwindled that we, for example. must terminate contracts for all necessary material, which we had to do in winter when it was spelled Hercules. It's not a useful way to work, so I'm glad that a collection of stuff is now going to be funded outside. Then we can calm down on this. I would also like to stress that we in the Right are very strong supporters of taking our responsibility in international operations. We see that if we are to be able to reach a stage on the road when it comes to getting an international legal order, we must, of course, have an international police force. It tells us that the different nations are involved, and so we also have to participate. And as a small nation, we are particularly interested in such an international legal order. When it comes to a few specific points, such as this with the re-schooling of Russian officers, I think it might be a sensible measure. I agree with the representative Røsjorde that it is a little strange that the Russians should spend a lot of money developing new attack boats while we have to help them clean up the scraps of the old and re-schoolers officer, build houses for them, etc. But fine, let's do that. We also helped build houses for them some years ago, but we can't agree that this is going to go over the Ministry of Defence's budget. There are constant attempts to smuggle everything possible into this budget, and there we must be consistent. The housing of Russian officers has been funded, it must also be this training. Finally, one thing I think is very alarming, and that is that the government is now going to introduce quotaing on an ethnic basis when it involves admission to our schools within the defense. The defence has always been, ever since the nobility was abolished, a place where everyone was treated absolutely equally. If one was the son of a landlord or a householder, the same ethnic background one had, one was treated completely alike. That's what one stood for, it depended on, and nothing else. Now we are introducing quotas on an ethnic basis. The opposite is ethnic discrimination, and I am afraid that this will lead to increased ethnic contradictions in our society today. The danger for us to get it, is big enough already, if we're not going to stimulate it this way.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e385	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e388	Once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the other budget that could possibly be taken from in the case of officers' housing in Russia is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget, the budget that the Right itself has helped to reduce from over 400 million. NOK 2 years ago to SEK 55 million. The next financial year. Then it goes on to say that there's absolutely narrowhans. But what I actually took up was the repeated reminder that the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party have a majority in the Defence Committee. That's right, of course. However, it is not the case that the budgets and budget frameworks are dealt with in the expert committees and that the framework is defined there. They are determined through the financial position and the financial debate. The natural question is therefore: would the representative Ingvald Godal have contributed to the government being put on the defence framework if it were part of a total framework that built a cooperation between the Right and the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e397	When it comes to the last one, the answer is that our minimum government requirement was that she should say her own long-term message. So we could say, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, If she had not done so, she could go. We had defined our minimum requirements, and they were standing on our whole way. And I meant seriously. Unfortunately, it seems that it is necessary to act in such a way as to support another government, that one must set certain minimum requirements, and then one must stand on them. That's what we're going to do in the future too. When it comes to the U.D. budget and Eastern Europe, I found the developments there to be very sad. But the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has some other chapters where there's plenty of money. I'm thinking here about the u-help budget and Africa. I have a little bit of Africa, with seven years of background there. I think it is extremely strange when we see that there is a report after a report on abuse in all possible ways. And maybe the worst thing about this is that this unhelpful corrupts the Africans. Stand by-the will after freedom was corrupt, for there was no question of what they would do to get to anything, but there were questions about who they would be begging for money to get to anything. All that we put out there, probably makes worse. All that happens now with the development aid and the corrupting effect of it, is probably the worst thing that has happened in Africa after the slave trade. Here's a bunch of money to take off -- billions. There is no problem here, if one just wants to go away from this 1 pst. performance and use the head and look for the consequences and results of a drive.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e408	With the last exchange of lines, the debate here starts to get really high, when you're going to start finding new ground to fall down on the government. Therefore, I would like to remind you that what we are discussing here today is a unanimous vote. So you also see the words used, a little bit in the light of it. The defence that is now facing the future, on the basis of what I expect, is adopted on the basis of the fact that this is a unanimous attitude, is a process of conversion in which one must make ongoing priorities. That's why I want to ask a question to Bjørn Tore Godal – I'm sorry, the name brother, to use that expression. When we stand up in such situations where we have to make priorities, the representative Godal says that we should always take into account the needs of the defence, and he refers to a national decision in the Right that this should be the case. We have four main principles for our defence policy, one of which is total defence. The idea behind this is to have an ordered infrastructure and access to different resources across the country that the Defense can take advantage of in a crisis or war situation. This requires that we have resident and business activity throughout the country, so that resources will be available when the Defence needs them. Does the representative Godal support the view that the defence itself can support under the overall defence concept by striving for a presence in the districts as well? Or is it the way he often claims, and as he was also a little bit inside the post now, that first we have to take into account the defence, and then others have to take care of the district policy? Is this sensible policy and thinking based on an overall defence concept and overall good use of public funds?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e419	I am not sure if I fully understand the question. But we don't prioritize the defense in each context, as was said. I agree with my name brother that if the oil price goes up, that doesn't mean we're going to have more money for the Defense. But it's not the opposite either. What's the point here is that one should be able to plan and have stability. There should be a scheme, which I was inside instead, which is related. That's the main point. I would like to say that I believe that diligence in planning is almost as important as the level. You don't have much of a year left if you just crash next year, you can't plan it properly. So when it comes to defense and total defense, of course, we have to have a total defense, we're followers of that concept. I don't really understand the opposite. We're going to have a defense that works, and we're going to have a total defense that works. Of course, this is related.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e429	When a person listens to the Godal of the Right, it's clear that one of the best friends in the defense is the number. So here, President Røssjorde, you have a challenge, because actually it's up to you to listen to other things. But I feel when I listen to Godal, that it's the same defense as what a budget is looking at. Now it was the u-help budget that could be cut down. In the agreement, there's a shoe down to the schools, kindergartens, crime prevention. Everything seems to be about the defense. I simply have to listen if there are other budgets that one needs to deal with here in the Stortinget. So Kosovo and the bombing problem and the role of NATO. SV is aware that Godal like Røsjorde is quick to act when the United States speaks. The new strategy – outside the area – for which there has been a kind of precedent in Kosovo, what is the view of Godal on it, and, if so, what is his point of view if China, Russia and others wish to follow a similar strategy? The last point is in frigates and Norwegian industry. I'm going to think about every time I get the word into a line. What's Right's Hold when it's up to the Norwegian industry to do this?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e438	Of course, when it comes to the last point, about the frigates, we hope that the Norwegian industry will be competitive, but we cannot use more of the defence budget for frigates than is necessary. If we're going to use more to get Norwegian deliveries, that means we have to go beyond something else, and with the budget we have, I can't believe we can afford it. When it comes to the question of whether it's just the defence budget, I don't know if I'm going to take that question seriously. I would like to reply by referring to the Yellow Book. There's a development in the budget -- I think it's page 47, go ahead! There is a huge increase in a series of budgets, but the defence budget has a downward trend. The problem is that we're still talking about adding up to the defense is that the government is doing so damned much down. If it had only stood by its own long-term message, it would have been zero-growth all the way to the defence budget. That's where the problem arises, and it's a little psychological problem: when you say you have to give priority to the defense, you have to spend a lot of money just to get to the zero growth level. When it comes to the relationship with the United States, I say thank you and thank you for the United States – the First World War, the Second World War. There is someone who really does when it's heavy. We usually have to limit our role in international operations to running far behind with patches. The Americans went before and took hold. It has changed, and I think it is very good that we now help in the first line of what we need, as we did in Kosovo recently. Very good. When it comes to this with a mandate, I have hurt to see that we are going to be totally dependent on the Security Council. For example, the butcher from Chechnya is in the Security Council. Would the butcher in Chechnya be allowed to prevent the international community from preventing a massacre in Kosovo? It's a cross of thought. We're forced to have a security valve here until we get an international legal system that's better. As it is today, we must be able to act without a mandate.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e449	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e452	The security policy situation we are facing is and must be the basis for the device and resource allocation to our military defence. The security policy situation was addressed in depth in the long-term communication addressed in June. The current setting therefore only contains updates of this situation, and there are no significant changes. Through the long-term communication, we proposed the level of resource needs for the first four years. However, the need for tightening up the Norwegian economy led the Government to have to reduce the draft budget in relation to the level presented in the long-term communication. The circumstances surrounding this are already highlighted in the debate. The budget agreement and subsequent treatment of the financial situation in the Grand Duchy have led to a total of 450 million. kr, and in the view of the Centre Party, we will now have a defence budget in line with the objectives, strategies and assumptions adopted in June. The division into different chapters is fully agreed within the Committee. It is very good that you agreed on how to distribute the funds, despite the fact that you have a slightly different starting point. It provides a good basis for further work. That doesn't mean the defense isn't facing challenges. The transition and adaptation to the new security policy situation, which started with the previous long-term message and which has been continued in the current long-term message, demands both the Defence as an organisation and the individual employee of the organisation. Modernisation of the Defence Force puts pressure on the Peace Organization. It is important both for the country and for the Norwegian people’s attitude to the defence that this does not just mean closure and centralisation. It is also important for the defence's own part to maintain a presence across the whole country. It will help to ensure the recruitment basis for future defences and better communication with society in general. In the districts, the defense often has a cornerstone role, while in the central strata it is one of many, with the challenges of attention it means. One of the four basic principles of our defence policy is a general duty of protection. For the sake of the balance of the Norwegian economy, as said earlier and as highlighted in the debate here, the Government had to consider reducing the length of the initial service for the 1999 coal. An authorisation was requested for such an assessment. This was considered less painful than, for example: to reduce the exercise activity. Such powers are not now necessary for the examination and distribution of funds within the Financial Committee. The duration of the first service in 1999 will be as in 1998, and that is good. In order to maintain and update the knowledge of the crews, it is important to review the service after completion of the initial service. The Ministry is now working to develop indicators for measuring the quality of the review service. Today, in terms of the number of days worked, it is largely quantity that is measured. It is good to focus now on the content of the service. This provides a basis for better use of resources and a better quality service for each soldier. The largest item in the year's budget in previous years is new acquisitions of materials, new buildings and installations. In addition to the 100 million. This item is now worth more than DKK 7.6 billion for 1999. There's a lot of money, but defence equipment has gradually become technically very advanced and very expensive. However, good and modern equipment is needed to achieve the objectives we have set for the Defence. With this appropriation, there should be a good basis for further work on the investment programmes we are already in the process of implementing. The Coast Guard has an important function in terms of resource monitoring and assistance to police, customs and other departments in the performance of their tasks. Strengthening the operational budget of 50 million. kr means real growth in relation to the budget for the current year. This also means that the activity can be continued at least at the level of the day. Compared to the important tasks the Coast Guard performs on a daily basis at sea and along our long-range coast, it is good that a unanimous committee focusses on a real increase in the Coast Guard’s operating budget. International operations have gradually become a central element of international security policy. Norway has played a central role in this work. Although we have now withdrawn from Lebanon after 20 years of efforts, we are present in many areas of conflict. The financing of the first quarter is embedded in the budget. In line with agreed settlements, the second quarter funding will come back to the revised national budget for the spring or, where appropriate, the regrouping for the autumn. Operation in the second half of the year will be financed outside the framework in line with the long-term message. Thus, the principle we agreed on through the long-term communication has been introduced. The government announced that the Ministry of Defence has drawn up an action plan aimed at increasing the recruitment of people with a migrant background to both civil and military positions in the Ministry of Defence. An instrument here is limited quota. The centre party shall form part of the majority supporting it. I'm not surprised that the Right Party and the Advance Party are moving towards, but I'm surprised that they so totally slaughter the measure, as they do in their minority remark. I also thought these parties had noticed the positive experience we have in the Norwegian community with limited quota of groups that are already underrepresented for a period to achieve the desired development. Sub-represented groups, in this case Nordics with different ethnic backgrounds, need some help in a transitional phase to be fully integrated into parts of the social structure. This is to the benefit of both those affected and our entire society. In our day, we are dealing with two long-term messages – one for Defence and one for Civil Protection. The defence's long-term message has been a great success in the debate so far in the autumn. The long-term communication on civil protection has hardly been mentioned. It is therefore nice to note that in this budget the appropriations for civil protection have been increased by 5.4 pst. This means enough resources to achieve the objectives and strategies we adopted in this long-term communication. I have previously mentioned the duty of protection as one of the main principles of Norwegian defence policy. Another is the overall defence concept. That is why it is important, even in relation to our military defence, that we work on this sector in a targeted way. All four main principles of defence policy – nationally balanced defence, allied military cooperation and international cooperation, total defence and protection – need to be developed harmoniously against each other if we are to achieve an optimal defence capability. That is why it is good that the appropriations for civil protection have a real growth. We're dealing with two things now. In addition to the next year's budget, we will also deal with the Innst. S. No 50 on changes in the Ministry of Defence budget for the current year and some chapters in the Ministry of Justice budget. Since I am the case rapporteur for it, I should like to mention some key points. Including supplementary appropriations, transfers from 1997 and regrouping, the new framework for the Ministry of Defence for 1998 will be DKK 24.8 billion. This is over DKK 1 billion more than the original budget for 1998. There is agreement within the Committee on the allocation of these funds. The Committee shall share one point on which the Chairman of the Committee has been briefed. In the context of the revised national budget for 1998, 671 million were allocated. kr to international operations. One hundred million. kr was transferred from the allocation to material. The rest was additional. At the end of the year it turns out that there is no need for 75 million. NOK of this. The government proposes to withdraw these funds. However, a majority of the Committee proposes that the funds be retained and added to the material chapter. With regard to the chapters on the Ministry of Justice's budget, there appears to be an increase of 6.3 million. kr, which is proposed to be retained in the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e495	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e498	It was with some wonder that I heard what the representative said about what was his subject. He said, if I didn't hear anything wrong, there was no need to strengthen the material chapter in the current year's budget. It is quite remarkable, when you see what problems you have in getting money for material things. At the same time, we are also committed to strengthening the 1999 budget. I would like to ask: is the rapporteur directly dissatisfied with what the majority has proposed, namely not to put money back into the treasury, money that was wisely taken from the material chapter in its time? So the majority says that then you get to put them back where they were taken from. Is the rapporteur so dissatisfied with this that he feels the need to underline it? That's the one question. Then he says the Coast Guard is important. Why in the world was the Coast Guard budget so dramatic? It was also saved through a cooperation arrangement with the Right and the Advance Party. So he said this with the quota of the Northmen with the immigrant background. I have to say it's quite remarkable that you do it. So if you're a Northman and you have a duty to protect, you're a Northman, and then it just seems inappropriate to create problems through what's proposed here. I think most of us have met excellent young men, both officers and soldiers, who have just this background, and they do a good job. Why in the world should you pick them and single them out? I'm noticing that there's under-representation of mortars in the Army!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e507	I'm going to take the last one first – not quagmires, but immigrants. The reason for the need for an action plan is not the need to increase the level of protection of immigrants, but to increase recruitment for defence posts because of the underrepresentation of those there, and they need a small help in the start-up phase to get some role models in their own environment. We think that's important. There is an agreement to add 100 million to the investment budget. kr in the budget case. In the regrouping, we first add 75 million. NOK for the purchase of new SISU vehicle. Then there has been a need from the government side and from the Central Party to see the total economy as a whole, which we have talked about many times so far in the debate. And then 571 million. NOK was granted further, and it turned out that there was no need for everything, we believe it is right to return the piece that was not needed. The Coast Guard is of course important. It has had a larger activity in the current year than it was foreseen in the 1998 budget. We had hoped to be able to continue it. As budgetary work developed, we have now been able to cover both the budgeted level this year and also the level that we believe is right and that the Coast Guard is at today. So the Coast Guard's budget we're satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e516	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e519	We use 25 billion dollars a year on the defense of Norway, at a time when the plurality in this hall means that Norway is not facing any military threat. This is unison from Stortinget, and it has the right-wing representative Ingvald Godal also meant earlier. So it's not an enemy, it's not a military threat. We spend $25 billion defending ourselves against an enemy that everyone says doesn't exist. That doesn't mean that SV doesn't mean we shouldn't have a defense, which the hawks in this room are trying to represent it. When SV spends 22 billion dollars on the Defense, it may seem like a small amount of money for the Multiple. But if you compare it to what a user uses on environmental protection, then SV also uses ten times more on defence. So the rhetoric that some representatives have joined in should be taken care of, and respect that SV actually has a thorough and well-managed defence budget. But let me problemate a little bit about resource use, and go a little further on this by defending us against the non-existent enemy. How is it possible to spend more money spying on the enemy now than we did during the cold war, when there is no enemy? The majority use 550 million. kr on military intelligence, i.e. trying to find an enemy that they themselves say does not exist. I hope that Røssjorde and the nominees Godal, who do not seem to have a limit on the use of money in the defense, can explain a simple Western soul the following: Why should we spend 550 million? find something that does not exist? I'm grateful for your answer. What if we spent the 550 million or parts of them on the fact that the elephants in the backbone got spying for knowledge of new books and computers, so they didn't read about the cold war going on between Warsaw and NATO? Wouldn't such an espionage have been more reasonable and forward-looking? The central government made a labyrinth attempt to rule the defense out of the cold war, with some reductions. It wasn't. The majority error plus. The working party came in with $300 million. kr more. In the negotiations, the Right and the Advance Party got a plus of 450 million. kr. The money was taken from less important things – I assume. They were taken from crime prevention, school-time arrangements, kindergartens, measures for the unemployed, housing for people with disabilities, research and environmental measures, i.e. less important things after the majority view. Even newspapers have to be dropped in order for the defense to live on with the cold war budget. Some people live in the error that when SV is critical to the use of funds for the defense, SV is opposed to having a defense. That's not what this is about. We think there's a basis for having a debate about how much money you should spend on the defense when it's not an enemy. In the SV's alternative budget, we're going to charge $22 billion, and at the same time we're going to do some redeployments and additions. Coast Guard is one of the areas SV has prioritised each year in each budget proposal, often higher than the other. Having a proper monitoring of resources and the environment is central to SV. So we're trying to adapt the defense to a time when there are no military enemies, but where there are many tasks the defense can help solve. My question to this assembly is: How many years do we have to wait in SV for others to act on the enemy image deck they say they have?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e538	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e542	It should be unnecessary to say what I am now saying. I'm still going to try to get into what the representative called for. It might be interesting to start by asking a question, which you probably shouldn't do. But it might be interesting to hear a little about the development of SV and NATO membership and the role of NATO in the security policy everyday life and situation, a tool that you like to rely on, but which you don't want. We are constantly calling for new information in terms of the SV and security and defence policy, so I hope that there is an opportunity in the reply. So Langeland talked about simple Westerners. Simple Westerners do not exist. However, there are some Westerners of the type Langeland. With regard to the defence intelligence service, it is important to have an up-to-date intelligence service during periods when you have dropped your alert – you simply need to be informed about what is going on. At such times, it may be more important than ever to follow up on what is going on in order to meet any changes. It's natural. This applies to all countries. And that's important. Intelligence is also important in situations where we have soldiers abroad. In order to give them the best possible protection, it is important for us to know: what can threaten them, and how can we meet them? It's part of the reality of the need for intelligence. But if the representative Langeland and SV are not concerned about security, then it is their problem, and not the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e551	I'm not going to comment on or elaborate on this with Westerners, but just saying that my starting point was that I was a simple Westerner who wanted to understand this. But I did not think the representative Røss soile helped to clarify this for me – I regret to admit – because still talk about Røss soil as if the old enemy image exists, at least partially. When an e.g. spends 550 million. kr – i.e. over half a billion – in military intelligence, I have hurt to understand that it is necessary in today's situation with the enemy image we have. But the Progress Party and the Røss soil and the plural here are obviously very concerned that we still have to do it. My point of saying that is, they're less concerned about having a proper base with proper equipment, because they're simply giving it priority in their draft budget. That's my point of misleading the intelligence service, which is an example of an organisation that hasn't adapted to the new era. For SV, knowledge, children and young people are more important than spending more than half a billion in military intelligence. So to SV and NATO membership. SV has detected that we wish to notify Norway of NATO. It is stated in the SV's work programme for this four-year period. SV is committed to strengthening the UN and the OSCE, organisations that have a basis for international law. NATO does not have the international legal basis and can therefore never play the role that the United Nations can play. So let's hope that's a good answer to important questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e562	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e565	New opportunities for peaceful development, but more uncertain than in the past, characterise the security policy situation both in Europe and in Norway. Although developments in recent years in Europe in general and in neighbouring areas are particularly desirable and joyful, the new security policy situation is making defence tasks more demanding. Exploiting technological developments also challenge the use of instruments. In other words, the defense is within a major and strenuous transition phase to a changed reality. We can see that there has been no special or major change in this particular situation since the Great Britain debated the defence budget last year. On the other hand, we have experienced a partly dramatic development of the world economy, which has also had consequences for Norway. There is a need for tightening up the overall economy in Norway, and in such a serious picture, the Left sees it as natural that the Defence must also contribute. For the defence, as for all other sectors, it is fortunate that the ability is not initially tied up to a certain level of funding. There is and should be room for dynamism in all areas of society. Nevertheless, the Left is pleased with the additional resources available in the budget compromise with the Progress Party and the Right. This allows us to deliver the initial service at the same level as this year, to increased investment and also increased resources for the Coast Guard. The left is pleased to see the ongoing consensus in the suspension by the Defence Committee. It is clear that there has been a great deal of willingness within the Committee to reach an agreement. This is itself a strength for the Norwegian defence policy. The entire Committee has gathered on the budget framework. Basic assessments in relation to the security policy situation, in relation to the main priorities of defence policy and the view of defence as a security policy instrument. The left supports these assessments. I have noticed that the Progress Party and the Right do not agree with the Government's wish to contribute funds to the re-schooling of superstitious Russian officers and the proposal to introduce a quota system on an ethnic basis to the Defence Schools. The Progress Party and the Right express the fact that quotaing is breaking with long Norwegian traditions of non-discrimination for all Norwegian citizens in relation to ethnic backgrounds. The left, on the other hand, believes that it is a good Norwegian tradition that everyone should contribute to the Norwegian defence, and that a group of Norwegians who are underrepresented in the Defence should be welcomed. Moderate allowances mean that when two applicants are equal in terms of formal requirements, preference will be given to those with a migrant background. This is primarily a signal to this group that they are wanted for the Defense. This is very important to emphasise in a society where not all Norwegian citizens feel welcome. A modern multicultural society will not function if all areas and bodies in society do not reflect the common multicultural reality. I think that in the future it will prove that a more even distribution, even in terms of ethnic background in defence, will certainly be a good thing for the general defence of all the citizens of Norway. The Left also supports the Government’s proposal on the use of funds for re-training of large numbers of Russian officers in North-West Russia. We know that the situation of excess officers poses a major challenge, not only to the Russian defense, but also to the entire Russian society. The competence and experience of these officers must be recovered in civil society. The alternative is by no means a soothing thought. There is no doubt that this contribution from Norway will be an important measure to increase social stability in the northern regions. Just in such an enlarged security policy perspective, the Left considers this to be an extremely important measure. I mentioned in the introduction that the defense is in a difficult transition phase. The challenges are great and many, and for the defence men and women, it may seem difficult to cut the allocations as well as ever-changing. Nevertheless, there is reason to stress the importance of the defence as both adaptive and dynamic. These will be the challenges of defence in the future – regardless of the economic situation. The ability to respond to the challenges of time will also be crucial for people’s confidence in Defence. And, in the opinion of the Left, the rise of citizens on – and believe in – defence is the most important pillar of Norwegian defence.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e588	We finally got a framework for the defence budget for next year, and the budget chaos that has prevailed for too long in the autumn is finally over. Late effects are likely to be seen gradually in 1999, both in the defence sector and in other sectors which have had more stringent frameworks than they needed and expected. On 5 January 1998, the Minister of Defence said in Oslo Military Society: ‘The government provides for a prudent real growth in the defence budgets for the period as a whole.’;» And at the spill-over of the long-term message, there were no parties that went in to reduce the defence budget during the period. There, as I said before, it was added up to zero growth for two years and 0.5 pst. growth in the next two years of the period. But today's reality is that today we are dealing with a reduced defence budget, and with history fresh in mind, we also know how difficult – not to say impossible – it is often to take back what has been lost on later occasions. The agreement between the parties to the Government and the Right and the Advance Party corrected the situation somewhat, so that, for example: The marine defense now ends up with a reduction of 37 million. kr insteadfor 90 million. kr, as first proposed by the Government. It will not be an easy task to maintain the quality and quantity of staff and materials with even less money, when even before this budget, more scratches had been made. Nor will it be easy to maintain the motivation of the employees when you have to keep the savings knife hanging over your head. At present, there is a non-defence labour market that would like to have access to the employees that the Defense needs the most. It is also a fact that seafarers and seafarers are best practised and maintained at sea and not at berth. Seafarers also do not thrive best on land, nor do they maintain their knowledge of seafaring best there. There are proper ships, enough crew and skill required when it comes to participating in international fleet forces in peacekeeping and peace-building operations. It is also the same factors that must be taken into account in order to achieve maritime control in a maritime area of limited geographical extent for a limited period of time, and to respect the Norwegian sovereign rights of our maritime defence as our peace-time mission. The marine defense still has a lot of its command out on leave, with the negative consequences this has for, among other things. the schools and producers of strength. I hope that the measures that have been taken to maintain staff in 1999 will become reality even if the budget has been reduced. Nevertheless, something is at stake in this budget as in the long-term communication, and it is that the majority, the Labour Party and the Right, still agree that a principle decision on the construction of new MTBs must be taken as quickly as possible, with a view to appropriations for the annual budgets of the year 2000 if the trials currently under way by the newly built MTB are satisfactory. In 1999, the Coast Guard will be entrusted with several missions and extended powers. To solve this, they initially got $31 million. In 1999 it was smaller than it had in 1998. This caused great concern along the coast, and at least among some of the parties here in the house, we immediately asked ourselves the question of how this could relate – more missions, less money and halving the fleet. People said, "We didn't make it happen." But perhaps this reduction was not serious on the part of the Minister of Defence either, because on the NRK/Northland on the morning news Thursday October 22nd this year. 07.04 the Minister for Defence said: ‘This proposal is as much a debate proposal as it is an allocation proposal.’ I am therefore very pleased that the Coast Guard budget has now been increased here in Stortinget by 50 million. kr in relation to the first draft budget of the Government. Perhaps the Minister of Defence is happy too? The new Coast Guard Act, which will enter into force on 1 January 1999, will provide new tasks and the Coast Guard will be entrusted with enforcement of this legislation to police authorities to increase the breadth of missions and the exercise of power. Coast Guards are also given a new task of controlling fishing in international waters when the NEAFC Agreement enters into force in January 1999. In addition to the new problems, we can see that, among other things. Trafficking in alcohol and drugs along our long coastline does not slow down, but rather increases. This is where the Coast Guard, along with the police and customs, has done jobs. Both police and customs are very satisfied with the participation of Coast Guards in these matters under the existing cooperation agreement. I think we need this cooperation to a great extent in the future as well. We do not want to move freely either of alcohol or drugs, and we need all the good cooperative forces to try to stop as much as possible before it reaches the country of our own young people. The acquisition of a new ice-enhanced helicopter-bearing coastguard vessel, KV-Svalbard, is also subject to this budget. The government has promised to come back to Stortinget in 1999, so we'll have that discussion then. In the end, justice should be correct, the chapter on the Civil Protection Directorate actually increased by 14 million. kr also in the budget submitted by the Government. This was in line with what we said in the long-term communication on civil protection in June this year. This was a point of light. And I'm glad I found that point of light, so that at least some of what we said in June, stayed stuck in October – also for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e626	I have not been involved in dealing with this budget, but I have some wishes that I have expressed on several occasions from this pulpit. I have been involved in the rescue service and a best-possible rescue service from the rescue helicopters. Yesterday we discussed the Ministry of Justice's budget, and it turned out that the helicopters at Vigra are moving to Rygge. It is also clear from the opinion of the Defence Committee that it is a good solution. I don't agree with that, to take from one and give to the other, it won't be any bigger and better rescue service. I think the fishing fleet and the other shipping outside of Møre are just as important to take care of as shipping in Skagerrak and in the North Sea, so it is with regret that I find that this solution has been accepted by both committees. I'm glad the Coast Guard has added extra resources. The Coast Guard has a major and important task to perform. There are huge sea areas to be monitored and the issue of ice-going, helicopter-bearing coastguard vessels has been on the rise for many years in Stortinget. It was supposed to start designing last year. There is no provision for money in the 1999 budget, and it is now to be mentioned in the context of the revised national budget for spring. Such a process testifies to the phase-out of this project. It should have been soon time for the Defence Committee to say that this is about to start, and would have put a sum of money into the design work. I have not been able to find it in this setting that has been submitted. In fact, there is not a single ice-going vessel on this side of the Atlantic. The Russian nuclear icebreakers are in the bows, and they can't be decommissioned. If something happens in the ice, we don't have a vessel that can go in there and do an operation. That is regrettable, so I do not think the priorities are good. I have to say a little about the Inner Coast Guard, which is mentioned, and the evaluation of it. Yes, they're doing a great job for Customs, but the coastal population is a little bit in doubt about what kind of other tasks the Internal Coast Guard has. On a number of occasions, very unfortunate situations have arisen. To put it simply, it hasn't been common since the days of war to get a marine ship up in the spring, up in the gulls, and it helps to weaken the good relationship between the coastal population and the defence when people in some cases feel that they're going on the drawbar of the small boats to see if there's any net below. There is evidence that there is a service going on, where they do not know what to do and what to do, so there is a need for an evaluation. I agree with that!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e637	St. pp. No 1, The Government’s draft defence budget for the 1999 budget is a major disappointment to the defence sector and to most people in this country who are concerned that the country will have an up-to-date invasion defence. Therefore, such a budget proposal should worry most people, with the reduced defence capacity it will mean. Here the government has completely forgotten and – really the worst – completely ignored its own proposal and the Stortinge decision in connection with St.meld. No 22 for 1997-98, Main lines of defence activity and development in the period 1999-2002 — better known as the long-term communication — which was made in the United Kingdom on 18 June this year. The size decided here to continue the level of the 1998 budget, excluding expenditure on foreign operations, provided for additional appropriations. So all this is forgotten and ignored three months later! In the proposal, a reduction of 595 million towards all expectations and decisions has been made. kr, or 2,5 pst., when the financing of international operations up to the first exchange of forces is included in the framework, whereas the long-term notification is therefore conditional on additional international operations being granted. The real reduction is therefore proposed at 815 million. kr, or 3,4 pst. The reduction corresponds, for example, to: annual operating costs for three of the new marine defence mine clearance vessels. As a result of the reduction in the government's draft budget, the head of defence had to do quite a lot of work, which he himself has said quite emphatically. He had to in case reduce the initial service and call for fewer teams to reduce the exercise and training activity in all defence sectors, which would weaken the basis for Norwegian international participation and the quality of the mobilization departments renegotiate contracts adding ships to berth and putting aircraft on the ground not to initiate new construction projects in 1999 So the result would be that the defense had to go on fire. But the most alarming thing would have been that the head of defense probably had to consider whether we would still have an invasion defense. However, the Minister of Defence has tried to calm this down by stating that the reduction in the 1999 budget compared to the long-term notification for the next four years will apply to an exceptional year. However, it does not give rise to much confidence, at least not in the Progress Party, when it is indicated that the first year of a four-year period shall be an exceptional year. However, the Progress Party and the Right through the budgetary negotiations and the settlement that has been achieved have now managed to negotiate until a return to the defence of a total of 450 million. kr. We in the Progress Party are not satisfied with this at all, but this was the best we could achieve. It should be mentioned here that the Workers' Party's proposal is a return of only 300 million. NOK, which would not even allow for a full-time first-time service. The proposal to which the Progress Party and the Right have negotiated is, for the Progress Party, a proposal for which we may have to vote in a subsidiary way. In the main proposal of the Progress Party, there is a return to the defence of well and well over $1 billion, which would ensure much better and more predictable planning and a full-fledged invasion defence. The party of progress has then been loyal to St.meld. No Twenty-two with its addition. The defence must have, and depends on, a high level of predictability and stable framework for rational planning and operation. The budget presented by the Government is therefore in breach of fundamental principles and is contrary to the principles and budgetary framework laid down by the Stortinget during the examination of the long-term communication. The budget proposition would mean that the initial service would be reduced to 9 months. The budget proposal would also lead to a reduction in the exercise activity and to a reduction in the possibility of obtaining qualified contractual orders for the education departments. The consequence would be that during the compulsory year, master students would not be given adequate service, and that more garrison would have to go on idle for much of the year, without the permanent staff having the basis to carry out the service they are primarily to perform. We would also point out that the proposition would lead to a strong reduction in basic command training and that a number of structural elements, such as: F-5 fighter aircraft, were put on the ground, EK-planes and transport machines would not be given the necessary means for maintenance, submarines had to be phased out and recently modernised air defence systems had to be put in a mill bag. This is not acceptable for the Progress Party. Proposal for a total net increase of 1 086 million by the Progress Party. We believe that it would be necessary to correct some of the distortions that have arisen in relation to the defence structure objective. Together with the Right, the Progress Party has been corrected some of the almost catastrophic things that the proposition would bring. Let me finally say a little bit about the chapter area of Joint Management and Commanding. An overall committee indicates in the setting of the notified savings potential that lies in new ways of organising the top management of the defence. An overall committee further indicates that the organisation of the military leadership of the Defence should be further developed. There is reason to recall these intentions, and it may be a cross-reference that the draft budget for the next year under this chapter is more than DKK 1.1 billion. There must be significant savings potential here. It is not to be concealed that the defence appears in many ways as a top-notch organisation, so when an overall committee meets a rapid clarification of these conditions, it is shown that one wants action and not a round of working groups and investigations without visible results. I expect you to be able to come up with a proposal that is adapted to the structure, mission, function and expected financial framework. I hope and believe that a proposal for reorganization can be made relatively quickly and that it will be based on purely military needs and operational priorities. We're gonna have to take care of any district police trouble here in the house.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e677	In St.meld. No 22 for 1997-98, the Government drew up its main guidelines for the activities and development of the defence during the period 1999-2002. The long-term communication assumed that the security policy situation in our neighbourhoods is positive and concluded that there is no military threat to Norway. However, security policy developments are uncertain, and Norwegian security and defence policies must therefore be based on and take into account the challenges that may arise in the long term. The government's ambition is to maintain the capacity for time-limited invasion defence in one part of the country at a time. A nationally balanced defence, allied military cooperation and international cooperation, total defence and general duty of protection are the main pillars of the defence concept on which the long-term message is based. It is underlined in St.meld. No 22 that the main lines of defence policy must be drawn from a tight economic policy. The Government assumed that defence planning would be geared towards a real continuation of the current budgetary level in the first two years of the coming four-year period and by 0.5 pst. annual growth over the last two years. The construction and maintenance of the defence capabilities to participate with military forces in limited international peace operations would be covered under this framework and the costs of using the capabilities as an additional or additional increase in the defence budget. Cooperation in NATO remains the most important aspect of Norwegian security and defence policy. At the Washington Summit in April next year, NATO Heads of State and Government will formally approve a revised strategic concept, new Member States will have joined the alliance, and the 50th anniversary of the alliance will be duly marked. I would like to point out in particular that, in the context of the development of a new strategic concept, the United States has promoted several initiatives in NATO on new challenges facing the alliance and how the alliance can best meet them. Americans focus on the fact that technological developments combined with the growing vulnerability of Western societies and future international crisis situations will update new threats and new types of threats. In order to meet these, the United States wants increased emphasis on, among other things. the mobility and survival of the Allied countries and NATO joint defence planning. On the Norwegian side, together with our European allies, we will follow up work in NATO on these initiatives before next year's summit. Although, until now, the development of security policy has generally been positive and stable in our neighbourhoods, the negative economic and social developments in Russia may have serious security policy implications. As a European power, Russia is in a special position. Good cooperation between NATO countries and Russia will therefore be very important for European and therefore Norwegian security. Defence will continue to constitute the pillars of the Government’s security policy. Security policy developments will require Norway to develop a defence with a slightly wider device than before. The US initiatives in NATO, too, could be more demanding, including our defence, in order to meet a very wide range of challenges in peace, crisis and war, both nationally and internationally. The macroeconomic situation facing the Government, such as falling oil prices, difficulties in the Asian and Russian economies and the pressure against the Norwegian krona, where the aim was to stabilise the Norwegian economy and lower interest rates, was crucial when the choice of instruments was on the agenda for the submission of the year’s draft budget in the autumn. The government, as noted in its 1999 draft State budget, chose to make a significant economic downturn, as several have already mentioned, of about a quarter. EUR 9 billion, which meant that different sectors of society — including the defence sector — had to contribute to keeping the total expenditure of the State next year within an acceptable overall framework. In the light of the framework underpinning the Government's budget proposals for the autumn, and that in 1999 we strongly prioritise the implementation of the NATO exercise 'Battle Griffin' and the PfP exercise 'Barents Peace', there was a need for measures on the operational side, preferably by reducing the implementation of the initial service – in order to name it: the reason for early termination was thus a key element within non-priority departments. In addition, it was necessary to reduce the investment volume. The planned actions related to the implementation of the initial service in 1999 had less negative long-term consequences for the development of the ability to perform the defence tasks than other measures assessed, such as: further reduced investments or cancellation of exercises. I would like to make it clear that reduced duty time was an exceptional measure for 1999, and the Government had thus not proposed a change in the service pattern. The treatment of the government budget in the government fraction increased the defence budget by 320 million. kr, as some speakers have mentioned earlier. The Minister of Defence is not at all dissatisfied with the fact that the budgetary agreement with the Right and the Advance Party gave new 130 million. It was natural that the defense got an increase when the bulk of the population found that they could have a slightly less tight budget than the government promoted. I continue to register with great satisfaction that there is a unanimous committee behind the distribution of the increase of NOK 450 million. With the premise that is also in the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Right and the Progress Party on financing international operations, the Minister of Defence will state that we are essentially at a level of resources required by the long-term notification. In this respect, I would like to make it clear that the main guidelines in the long-term communication have been the direction of the design and arrangement of the draft budget, although the Government's resource availability in 1999 was not fully expected due to the economic situation. The objective of St.meld. No So 22 stand firm. The government’s explicit intention is to base the resource assumptions of the long-term message in the further part of the long-term notification period until 2002. The final framework involves a defence budget next year of a total of DKK 24.4 billion. This is an increase of 2.2 pst. Nominal. However, corrected for price and wage compensation, there is a real reduction in our overall budget for 1999. The final framework has made it possible to strengthen operations. The Council of State welcomes the implementation of the initial service for 1999 as for the current year. The Council of State also notes that the Coast Guard will be strengthened in its resource availability, so that the level of activity in both the Interior and the Outer Coast Guard is maintained at 1998 level. However, even the increased framework compared to the autumn budget proposal continues to reduce investment in 1999 by 5.3 pst. This results from the framework reduction and priorities of some areas of the operational budget. However, the planned acquisition of ‘KV-Svalbard’ will still have to be pushed out somewhat in time. The Government will consider any extension of the project and start-up of the acquisition in relation to the budget for 2000. The new Coast Guard vessel project will be discussed in detail in the context of the investment proposal and revised national budget in spring 1999. There are funds set aside for our efforts in the SFOR until the next exchange of forces, i.e. for the first quarter of 1999. The Government has announced a proposal early in the New Year on the reallocation of funds within the framework of the collection of expenditure in the second quarter. The main aim is to continue the exposure in Bosnia in 1999. Norway’s contribution to UNPREDEP in Macedonia has, as is known, increased to 160 people. The costs have been proposed additional appropriations for the first half of 1999, cf. St. pp. No 1 Appendix No 1, which is referred to before today. Furthermore, we have closed our battalion exposure to the UN forces in Lebanon – UNIFIL – as a result of recruitment problems. Norway’s offer to place up to 200 people at the disposal of UNIFIL is still ongoing, which does not appear to be necessary. I am therefore somewhat surprised at the Workers' Party's remark to this point in the setting. Under the agreement between the Government and the majority of the population, the Government will return to the budgeting of international peace operations in the revised national budget and in the 1999 regrouping programme, in order to bring the expenditure in line with the intentions of the long-term communication. Finally, I would just like to point out that Norway needs a well-equipped defence of quality, capable of solving our tasks in peace, crisis and war. Something else we can't afford. So we're going back on track, and in the meantime, we're going to make the best use of the funds that are allocated. However, I would like to stress that even with an operating budget that is consistent with St. gemeld. No 22 a high level of operational pressure is still necessary to consolidate the level of costs. This will be the main challenge of defence in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e707	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e710	I have two questions. Question 1: The Council of State stressed that next year would be a fiscal year of derogation; at the same time, it is an exceptional year which makes it necessary to derogate from the assumptions of the long-term programme. But what guarantee do we have that the Government does not see it exactly the same way when we are dealing with the government budgets of the coming years? What guarantee do we have that the lack of governance in the economy does not continue to create new years of derogation? And does that mean that the Council of State here said to stick to the long-term programme's assumptions for the rest of the four-year period, "the further part", as the Council of State said, that it intends to bring back the funds that are now lost in relation to the planning assumptions of the long-term programming period? Question 2: I noticed that the Council of State chose not to comment that the number of committees found budget preparation very critical. Is it really the way to understand that the Council of State is going to let that point pass by in silence? Or, at least, does he have the comment that he has intended to avoid putting himself in the same situation during future budgetary proceedings, namely to provide the Grand Duchy with a decision-making basis that is totally unsatisfactory compared to what could have been the result of the Council of State and the Government had not been rescued by the gong, so that these investigations can now be cancelled?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e719	Let me start with the last one first. Budgetary work was carried out in a traditional way. However, we were in the situation that during the summer a lot happened both in the domestic arena and in relation to oil prices and interest rates etc. which led to the Government's priority No. 1 was to keep the economy under control, ensure that the level of interest rates did not continue to rise, and take the necessary action on the narrowing side. It was therefore necessary that the defense also took its part in that tightening. Then, as Minister of Defence, I chose to tighten up the areas that would have the least lasting negative effect on the Defence. These included: on the operational side. I clearly admit that it would not be possible for the Defence Committee and the Stortinget to go to a detailed decision on the content of the deduction of early graduates. However, it was our profession, which is the Defence Command, that would support the final assessment and conclusion of what was possible or not. In other words, necessary transfers would be made within the budget to ensure that the necessary functions were not damaged. Then it was asked, what guarantee does the Council of State have that there will not be any new years of exemption? No, the Council of State has no more guarantees than other representatives in this Chamber have. What we're dealing with is we're going to get the Norwegian economy under control. We're going to use the long-term message as a plan paper, and I'm going to aim that, as in the previous period, we don't get too much deviation between the content of the long-term message and the annual appropriations. On the contrary: the goal is to be back on track around the New Year for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e731	In my opinion, the Council of State did not respond adequately to the challenge posed by a majority comment relating to the entire budgetary procedure. I asked in my post a question, which I can so far understand that the Council of State has not found time to answer. I asked: Did the Council of State on 18 June, when the Storting debated the long-term communication, know that there would be a need to derogate from the budgetary framework that was debated and drawn up? I would like a clear and unambiguous answer to that question. As for the year of the derogation, I think we are wise to be concerned that we can hardly rely more on the Government next year than we could on the Government's position on June 18th this year. I hear the good intentions, and it is not difficult to agree that this should be the case. But I don't feel convinced at all. So the council says there was so much happening during the summer, there were so many changes, and it became so difficult economically that you had to tread with new cuts. But did not the Government then have a solid basis in a forecast for development where this had to be captured? That's what's a little bit hard to understand. So the council says the defense had to take its share. As far as I have been able to read of the cuts that have been made, the defense has had to take much more than its share. After all, the defense got a dramatic cut, and we look at all sides of it, it's cut off from NOK 1 billion, because you also – I would say – have been a little confused with the financing of the foreign operations.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e742	No, the government has not tampered with foreign operations. The old line has been followed, which has been a tradition until what was to be implemented for 1999, namely to finance them alongside the normal defence framework, or as a supplement. The government is openly saying from the point of view of the economic situation that it is not possible to implement this principle fully until the second half of next year. It's open and honest, and that's priorities as well. Priorities are to take responsibility. This has been done by the Government and the Minister of Defence by clarifying in concrete terms the impact of the priorities in the draft budget. We have done that on the Coast Guard, which boats we put in storage. We've been open on this with the initial service, what consequences it will have for next year's soldiers, or recruits, who are called, etc. What did the Council of State on June 18th – the Council of State on June 18th probably knew the same thing as most people in this room knew, namely that the Norwegian economy was under pressure. My biggest nightmare this summer was the days when the leader of the Labour Party spoke out in the morning and the Vice-Chair of the Financial Committee or the Financial Policy Spokesman of the Right in the afternoon in such a way that it was perceived as a clear majority in the Storting who wanted an economic policy that did not provide stability. We could read that on the interest rate barometer during the first two days afterwards. It helped bring us up to an artificial interest rate level, which is most relevant to the defence. Remember what we buy abroad. We're dependent on a stable head, we're dependent on stable currency ratios. Imagine what that means if we were to get in the situation that Finland has been in, when the dollar rises and the investments we've made suddenly disappear at rising exchange rates that we don't have to calculate.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e749	The last thing to say is that when the Prime Minister finally realized that he had got the knife on his throat, the case was relatively easy to resolve anyway. I want to come into a slightly different matter, unfortunately, I kept saying. This is because we are an oil nation, and that we can then be very exposed to terrorist attacks, for example. in a given situation. This means that it is very important that we take care that those in our service are only our servants and nothing else. This has to do with security clearance, and I would ask the Council of State to confirm that in the future we will also have a thorough security clearance of all our defence personnel, where one and only the security of the state is underpinned. That was the first one. The other one's on the 336squadron on Rygge. The main element of our defence, and for which we take a position and allow money, is, of course, the war structure. And in this context, the aircraft quadrons are important. We've been lending them money for years. And it's very dissatisfying for us when we get into a situation where the government realizes that they have to tighten heavily on the defense, and then they park e.g. fighter aircraft on the ground. If they stand there for a few months or the pilots don't fly in a few months and lose their licenses, etc., the Storting is facing a fait accompli when the case comes. We know that the case of the F-5 and 336 quadron will come to Stortinget, it's okay, but it's very important to us that the squadron is kept operational in time until then, so that the Storting has a real choice and basis of decision when the case comes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e758	If you go back to your groups and ask to get the numbers that were on the table in the negotiations, maybe some of us get surprises from what was the end result. I can't say anything more than that. It's not like there had to be such a big knife on the throat to get to where we are today on the defence budget. That being said, I have to be a little reserved for the F-5 question, or the 336-square. The reason for this is both the availability of pilots, materials, the status of materials and the potential for material further marketing that has left some flying hours. It is considered that flying the full number of flight hours available will also greatly reduce the value of the material. However, what will have to be done now, after the Storting's remarks in the budget position and the amounts entered in the budget, is to assess this in a total context. I take note of what the Storting has said that we have to come back to Stortinget with a review of the F-5 problem, and that we should not make any handle that locks the Storting before the decision is made. The Minister of Defence will deal with that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e765	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e768	The 1999 proposal for a defence budget, which is the first year of the next long-term period, attracted considerable attention beyond the small circle of defence policy-makers. And that was not strange, because the Stortinget on 18 June dealt with the long-term communication, and there was broad political agreement on the economic framework for the Defence during the period. The draft budget was broken by these assumptions. Thus, an important basis for predictability of the country's defence and security policy was broken. In an unstable and unpredictable world, the importance of national predictability in defence policy is more important than ever. It is also important that we appear predictable and credible to our allies and cooperation partners within NATO, the UN and the OSCE. Therefore, it was most unfortunate that the Government sent out new signals on key instruments in Norwegian security and defence policy as early as October. The outside world's perception of this can only be hypothesised. There is therefore reason to be satisfied that, at the end of a political process, we have now been able to lay the budgetary conditions for the defence closer to what the Stortinge provided when we dealt with the long-term message in June. Has the center learned anything from this process? I have become very much in doubt about this today. The main spokesperson of the Christian People's Party, Dagrun Eriksen, who represents the same party as the Minister of Defence and the Prime Minister, said twice today that the long-term message is an action plan and not an allocation document. Thus, one can see that the Christian People's Party does not feel any financial obligations towards the long-term message. I thought that the long-term message was a plan paper, where, as politicians, we sent signals to the department and sent it to the military chiefs. And what political signals does this give when, in addition, the Minister of Defence says that this is an exceptional year? These signals are frightening and, in my opinion, will have a major impact on budgets in the coming years. I want to review the two chapters for which I am the case rapporteur as soon as possible. The protection of the home comes out quite well in an otherwise tight budget, and I think it is positive that the Ministry and the Minister of Defence have a positive attitude towards the Home Office. With an increase of 30 million. until more than one working day, home protective exercises may be carried out satisfactorily. Now, however, it is the case that Homeland Protection is in the midst of a growth, and the war structure of Homeland Security is going up to a mobilization force of 83 000 soldiers, and that, of course, requires great investment. The strength was in 1997 64 000 men and in 1999 will be in 78 000 men. This requires both equipment and several working days. But there will still be protection areas and shelter sections that do not get full practice, which is regrettable. In the case of the Heimevertet Peace Organisation, the Committee has been concerned with the co-localisation of the Army's territorial regime and the Heimevertet district staff. Now it has been shown that this requires far greater financial resources than was initially foreseen. Nevertheless, it must be a priority objective to get this done by the Stortinge in the past. Both Setnesmoen, Evjemoen and Steinkjersannan are camps waiting for a transfer of Homeland Protection, according to the previous Stortingen decision. I hope there can be funds for this in the budget for the year 2000. When it comes to operation and maintenance in the Home Office, there is, of course, a lack of money here, which means that a person must obtain the necessary savings that the Storting itself has decided that he should dispose of unnecessary buildings. The cooperation that Home Protection has with shooter teams and sports teams is very valuable, and that work should have provided more money, because in the long run it would also have made economic sense for the whole community. Therefore, construction must also be given priority. Cape. 1760, new acquisitions of materials, new buildings and new installations, is an important chapter if the defence is to be modernised and the new maneuver concept is to be credible. However, it is now the case that the Storting has asked the Government to submit its investment profile for the long-term period before the end of 1998, and it has been told to me that it is likely to come next Friday. So we get an overview of all the investments and the government's future investment profile for our own treatment. I am therefore of the opinion that the debate on investment should be held in the new year. It could be an important debate, with perspectives and all the facts on the table. Today's Business Article yesterday on the lack of management and control of material investments and the Riksrevision's question as to whether the Stortninget has been properly informed, I assume that I will be part of this message, and the Workers' Party assumes that the notification will be a proper basis for seeing which investments are being made and the future priorities for the long term. It's also a pleasure that the budget agreement is worth 100 million. SEK for investments in addition to the Government’s proposals. Finally, I would like to comment on three issues relating to South Africa. One is where the Maritime Defence District of South is to be located, either in Horten or in Kristiansand. It is with this case that the previous one, it will be dealt with in a separate organizational proposal in the new year. So here I just want to encourage the Minister of Defense to study carefully what the operational managers have said about the location before presenting the proposition. In the case of the missile torpedo boats and any acquisition of new ones, the Workers' Party and the Right stand together with the same remark that we had for the long-term message. That is to say, assuming a satisfactory test project, the acquisition of new missile torpedo boats is carried out. It will be of great importance for Kværner Mandal to ensure that, as early as possible during the long term, the appropriations are used to make use of the production capacity and that the budget for the year 2000 has to be allocated. The third and last case concerns the Eujemo, which was mentioned in detail in the long-term communication. The Committee then agreed that the Evjemo should be the Army's power centre in the South West. Written questions were raised during the budgetary procedure about the follow-up to the decision. I see the response of the Council of State as positive, and that the Department will work for the rational exploitation of the Eujemo. Finally, I say that the last line that the Minister of Defense had aroused great interest among us in the Workers' Party. There was an internal debate on what was said at the meeting between the budget-mates, and the defence minister says the following: it is not that there had to be so big knives on the throat to get it done. Is there a confession here that the Progress Party and the Right actually wasn't so much concerned with more money for the defence budget? That's pretty interesting, and we should get a comment from both the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Center comrades about that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e800	I have only been able to attend this debate for a while. This is because we in the Committee on Legal Affairs have dealt with some issues such as: has meaning for the defense, and which I will come back to quite soon. However, I would like to comment on a few things I have heard while I have been in here, first. I heard the chairmen of the Defence Committee said we were satisfied with the budgetary conciliation. From the right-hand side, I would like to correct it and say that we are wise and patient satisfied. And when, in a reply with the same committee leader, the Minister of Defence denies that he has tampered with the financing of the foreign operations, I have to be allowed to protest about it. It is nothing but fiction that he has done – and it cannot be defended by the fact that a majority in this Chamber has created a certain tradition of deceiving the same budgets. Otherwise I think that Bjørn Tore Godal used a very good expression in his post. He said that we cannot pursue defence policy according to the «cyclical approach» – it is a very precise term, as I define and understand the statement. And that's exactly what we're doing! And what's worse for those of us who believe that this fall has not been a good time for friends of Defense, is that it's not just in areas that deal with money, that we've witnessed an attack on Defense. I am not going to spend a lot of time today talking about shooting ground in the East – that case is in Stortinget and will come in full width very soon – but I can only now see that even there, after the government in the long-term message, and to the extent that the notification of the case, consistently convincingly argues for the need for shooting ground, one can still conclude that one should not have shooting ground. It would have no financial consequences, because the savings in operating would greatly offset the relatively modest investments. But as I said, we'll get back to that in plenty of monn at the end of the year or at the beginning of the next year. What I want to talk about, which at least does not cost any money, and which has caused strong reactions in defence circles, is that you are now going in to equate the terms ‘military duty of protection’ and ‘civil duty’, which I still prefer to call it. So the concept of protection is also introduced in what has so far been separated as a civil service obligation. It is even the case that the Military Reconciliation Act uses the concepts of each other. The ministry has not even clearly cleared up the confusion of concepts, so in one sentence there is a military ‘service’ and in the other ‘protection obligation’. On the part of the Right and the Progressive Party, we believe that, to the extent that it is consistent, this concept is unfortunately equivalent to military protection and apparently indicates that civil service is to be seen as equivalent to military service. We take this very specific distance from. With regard to the question of self-declaration, which is to replace the previous practice of police interrogation to be exempted from military service for reasons of persuasion, I would like to quote from Innst. S. No 177 for 1995-96, the Progress Party and the Right, among others pronunciation: ‘These members believe that the obligation to protect their country of origin, if necessary by military means, is such a fundamental obligation for a citizen of society as to go a long way before an exemption should be granted. These members therefore consider that the argument that the procedure takes a long time and that it is economically resource-intensive in this context cannot be given decisive importance.» What was said in this position, the Right Party and the Progressive Party are fully committed to, even during the examination of this matter by the Judicial Committee this year. We are going to make proposals in accordance with this, namely that the use of concepts is maintained, and that there is a clear distinction between the obligation to defend one's country, if necessary with weapons in hand, and another way of doing community service.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e820	After spending four weeks at the UN headquarters in New York in connection with the General Assembly, and having experienced the Security Council's treatment of the Kosovo crisis and the Iraq crisis before I left, it would have been tempting to throw itself into a debate on international engagement and Norwegian security policy. I'm not going to do that. I intend to stay in this country and focus on some of the things that the Defence Committee is responsible for. There has been great unrest and dissatisfaction in More and Romesdal regarding the proposal to remove the detected rescue helicopter at Vigra. The Bastisen's articles today also bore the hallmark of this. It is understandable that one from this area reacts – it would probably all have done in the same situation, when one loses an offer of such a dimension. I would therefore like to use my contribution to give the background that we in the committee were also involved in this proposal from the ministry. It has been made in reading articles and letters to us. There are some claims that are due to misunderstandings that I also want to shed light on. Let me go back in history, to 1992, when the Storting decided to station a multi-use helicopter at Vigra. Initially, it was intended to install lifts and other life-saving appliances on the ambulance helicopter that were already operating out of Ålesund. As this did not prove possible due to the lack of lifting capacity, the Storting decided that a dedicated rescue helicopter should be hired in addition to the existing ambulance helicopter. The defense was ordered to hire a rescue helicopter to Vigra. The estimated cost of a multi-purpose helicopter with a lift was 25 million. SEK – 30 million. kr. From the defence side – more specifically the 330-square – it was proposed that the 330-squaredron should fire a helicopter to Vigra and maintain the standby within a requirement of 85 pst. operationalness – this as a testing scheme for up to two years. Then you would expand the staffing of the squadron if there was a more permanent solution. One of the most important elements of this proposal was that there should not be a fixed crew at Vigra. Personnel from all 330 quadron departments were to roll to mann the helicopter. Flight time was to be covered within the allocated framework. The crew who manned the helicopter has working hours on weekdays from 5 p.m. 07:30 a.m. to 7:00 a.m. 3:30 p.m. and then manning a brackish rig at Vigra. Outside the working hours they are located in an apartment in Ålesund Centre and have an hour's standby. The exposure to Vigra became operational on 11 September 1995 and has thus been beyond the probationary period of two years. In an overview of all search and rescue and ambulance missions in the period 11 September 1995 to 10 April 1998, which I received from the main Bodø Aviation Station, it appears that 96 search and rescue missions and 49 ambulance missions have been carried out during this period. In the case of ambulance missions, it must be emphasised that it was clarified from the Defence Overcommand that the rescue helicopter at Vigra is not included in the national ambulance plan from the autumn of 1997 and therefore should not be used for ambulance missions, as long as there are other capacities in the area, including the Eagle Helicopters. Bodø Air Station, where the 330 squadron has its headquarters, has performed a status on the rescue helicopter exposure at Vigra. It applies for the period September 1995 — when it started — and until April 1998. I want to quote something from this status report, and then go to point 4, which is useful, where you say: ‘The new effect of exposure Vigra is set up against the existence of a rescue helicopter based on Ørland which is 60 min flight time away is very small. Ørland has a response time after working hours of about 20 min [[against 50 minutes at Vigra]] Then I go on to point 7, technical maintenance, from which I quote further: ‘Technical maintenance for Sea King at Vigra is under the technical manager of 330 ed Ørland. Consequently, Ørland has to hold 2 out of 3 helicopters on standby all year round. The department is not set up with additional ratings to carry out this task.’ And a little bit further in this section, it says: ‘Although 330 ed Ørland has daily responsibility for the technical maintenance at Vigra, the other departments are also affected. A high degree of helicopter movement between bases is carried out to maintain the required standby. Technical staff in all departments have received a significant increase in the workload and travel burden to support the exposure.» Then I jump on to the conclusion of Bodø Main Aviation Station, where they say: ‘The task given to 330 squadrons has been carried out according to the order and costs have been sought to make the service as reasonable as possible to the Defence.The burden on individual departments has increased considerably as a result of the Vigra exposure. The new working time contract has resulted in the staff being satisfied with the compensation they receive. The staff is less available at home than before. This goes beyond self-training, training and watch planning. Bodø Main Aviation Station does not want the exposure in this form to be maintained. Adequate human resources must be allocated if the exposure is to be maintained or moved. Bodø Main Aviation Station believes that the trial period has shown that the need for a Sea King rescue helicopter at Vigra is unjustified. Sea King on Ørland covers the area satisfactorily.» This is the basis for the Committee's response to the Ministry of Defence's request to close this discharge and to establish one in Oslofjorden, Rygge, which the Stortinget has adopted on a previous occasion and which has not been followed up in the past. So to another area in the defence budget that there's not so much talk about. As the rapporteur spent more time telling me about the disagreement between the Workers' Party and the government parties, I want to talk a little about cultural and non-profit purposes, which are also important, based on the responsibility of the Defence Force for this. I have a background in the Culture Committee in Stortinget, and we have always said there that it is important for all areas of society to take responsibility for cultural action. In the two budgets I have been involved in dealing with defence, the Committee has unanimously entered additional appropriations for action. Last year it was the heavy water exhibition at the Norwegian Industrial Workers' Museum, Vemork, which should be well known in defence circles. This year there is the Bergenhus Festingsmuseum, where the committee goes in and asks the Ministry of Defence to find additional appropriations. It's very small amounts it's about. In the case of Rjukan, the industrial worker museum, it was NOK 900000, and in the case of Bergenhus fortificationsmuseum, it is SEK 4 million. kr over 2 years. The Ministry of Defence should be able to find a solution for such small matters as this is for the Ministry, but not for those involved. So the committee has taken the consequence that the ministry has not done this, and asks the ministry to find a solution to these issues. And I hope that you do that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e882	The overall objectives of Norwegian defence policy include, inter alia: preventing war and contributing to stability and peaceful development. The guidelines and main objectives of the report. No 22 for 1997-98 on the main guidelines for the activities and development of defence in the period 1999-2002 is the guiding principle for the main priorities of the 1999 budget. In view of the need for a general tightening of public activities for next year, the defence budget was also effectively reduced. As from the financial year 2000, the Government intends to base the resource requirements and guidelines of the long-term notification. Nevertheless, the proposal reaped strong reactions, not least from the defence's own ranks. A chief of staff in Harstad uses the expression dramatically about the draft budget. The Order Joint Organisation characterises the Bondevik Government as a disaster for the Defence. The head of the 6th Division believes that the State budget is reprehensible. The Minister of Defence was caricatured almost to the unrecognizable in the period after 5 October of the autumn. It's amazing what that man has to endure. To characterize Minister of Defence Færvoll as being faithless is not credible. The fact that someone is faithless in the agreed plans for the defense is otherwise no new matter. St. Prop. No 1 for 1993-94 on the 1994 defence budget the following: ‘Even if the 1994 draft budget means a slightly lower overall framework than provided by the majority of Storting in the context of the examination of Article 16 [[1992-93]] A joint statement by the Progress Party and the Right during the examination of the budgetary position in 1993 was as follows: «The Government's draft budget for 1994 is 1 127 million. krona below the level considered necessary by the FK-90 to achieve the defined structural objective. These members will therefore propose a corresponding strengthening of the budget’. During the review of the year's budgetary position, the Progress Party and the Right have proposed an increase of 1,086 million respectively. NOK 1077 million. kr. In relation to the amounts deemed necessary for the defence, both during the course of the year and during the 1994 defence budget, the situation appears to have been at least as bad for the defence in 1994. It is worth noting that the latter budget was presented by a workers' party government. In an opinion to the evening post on 6 October, Bjørn Tore Godal said about the budget of the central government: ‘The proposal represents the most dramatic cut in the defence budget we have seen in modern times.’ Most of us probably expect the autumn of 1993 to belong to what Godal describes as modern times. When he further accuses the centre parties of running away from the obligations in the long-term message, I would like to remind you that the Workers' Party has also been out and running, but from the obligations of the previous long-term message. The conclusion of this must be that most parties have had to adapt the appropriations to the Defence to the current economic situation. In view of this recognition, it is likely that all parties in the Defence Committee have gathered in a common position on the distribution of funds for the Defence. We are pleased that the Progress Party and the Right found it possible to meet the government parties in a common framework for this year's government budget. This has given the Defense a good basis for next year. When past commitments to the old long-term message seem to have broken all the first year, the defense chief's reaction seems to have come several years too late when he says to the Evening Post on October 21st: ‘I find it alarming that in the first year of the long-term communication, the Government has left its proposal.’ It is the Stortinget and not the Bondevik government that, because of other priorities, does not have the power to follow up the intentions of the previous long-term message. The defence shall not be a protected enterprise without responsibility for the challenges facing society. The defence is part of the Norwegian community, and must therefore take its share of responsibility in economically tight times.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e921	I am very pleased that the entire Defence Committee determines that the rate of co-location of Army regiments and HV districts is increasing in accordance with the previous decision of the Storting and as provided. There is no doubt that what has happened so far in this localization process is that those who were and still are opposed to moving have had ample opportunity to train the move. It is more serious that the higher military leaders and the political leadership of the Ministry of Defence allow this to happen. The calculations underlying proposals for deferral are not credible according to the information I have received. The costs have been overburdened. The need for investment is excessive and savings on closure are excluded from the investment appropriations. It's shocking to try to go deep in such matters. Employees directly affected by the Move Decision shall not be involved in the process but shall be opposed to the case. There's no respect for that. You can also ask questions about the defence capabilities of these military leaders who can't even move from Molde to Åndalsnes. Our defense cannot be led by military leaders who oppose decisions on the basis of their own merits or on the grounds of their own masculinity. Nor can the Minister of Defense find out if he is asking for good advice. I hope that the Minister of Defence does not uncritically accept trendy calculation models that only intend to prevent or postpone relocation. I hope the Council of State of Færvoll will also take care to acquire the knowledge that the followers of the move are in. And what about the district profile of the central government? Credibility is already quite thin. The Storting decided to move HV-11 from Molde to Setnesmoen at Åndalsnes. A large area in an economically poor municipality is unused. About everything the defense needs is available at Setnesmoen today, and the municipality is waiting for the jobs that are badly needed. It is unfair that Molde has the workplaces, and that Rauma only gets the disadvantages of 1400 decks being tied to the exercise area. So the district profile here is pretty bad. In this case, it has previously been claimed that moving the staff to Setnesmoen is the only right thing, both for military and economic reasons, and it stands firm. The investment needs created by the resistance to the relocation of local staff should not be accepted either by the Defence Command or by the Minister of Defence. I expect the same fictitious calculation methods to be used for moving to other places in District Norway. I am pleased that the Committee points this out in its comments, and I ask the Council of State to revise the over-commanded investment plan of the Defence Agency down to a realistic and feasible project.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e942	The representative of Hovind is given the floor by hand to put forward a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e946	We have discussed the long-term message today, but we have one more case, and there was a bit gone. In connection with Innst. S. No 50 I would like to take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e951	The representative Hovind has drawn up the proposal he himself did well for. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e956	I want to encourage the Presidency to give five lines of action to the government, so that the parties don't get involved, so in the forthcoming debates, we don't wait until the three-minute speeches. The central government proposed a reduction of 800 million. kr on the defence budget. A little labyrinth, but still try to do something inside the defense. The Minister of Defence was very quick out there and said he was sorry for his own actions, including his actions. in relation to the Coast Guard. What I am asking for first time, when I look at the budgetary position that the majority, consisting of the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right, use expressions such as ‘very critical’ and ‘without at least ensuring that the Storting is presented with an adequate basis for decision’ and ‘irreprehensible’ — a common quite powerful shot — that is how the Minister of Defence tackles the criticism that arises. Does he feel that he trusts the plural? So to the budget that is now being adopted. Is the Minister of Defence of the opinion that this budget takes account of the security policy situation that we have, namely that there is no military threat? Does this budget mean the necessary conversion of Norwegian defence? So the issue was related to NATO's future action. Now there has been a decision on the bombing of Kosovo, which can form precedents in a way. The United States now wants to move on to this area by acting like a world police force. How does the Council of State approach this, and what does it think of other countries acting similarly, and what does the Council of State think of this as an indication to the United Nations? Now it may be that one needs an entire night to explain it to me, but you can try to answer as short as possible. It would also be nice to listen a little about this with Germany, which now suggests that one go away from the first strike tactic when it comes to nuclear weapons, because it is also a matter like that. SV has been very busy. Fregatsaka won't let you get away, Minister of Defense. I have to agree with those outside this house who criticize the intrusions that all parties outside SV stand for. They will lead to higher unemployment, and the yard industry will have problems due to a decline in investment on the pedestal. What does the Minister of Defense see happening when it comes to hiring for the frigates to be built in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e969	The President has noted that there are several lines, but he would say that the Storting here today was agreed that there would be three lines. Otherwise, the President will remind you that the speech will be corrected by the President, and not directly to anyone in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e974	All parties dispute the use of money, said Godal of the Workers' Party. That's right. This is done in a situation where children and old people feel maltreated in the budgetary process, he also said. And that's right. At least NOK 4.5 billion is missing in the municipal sector if we were to avoid cuts there. And then we're not going to use the cyclical method when we're dealing with the defence budget! No, it can only be used to paint offers for children and young people, but not to push on measures in the defence, which many think can wait. And if I believed in the disaster descriptions that especially the Right Party and the Advance Party come with today, they must have put it first, and so they haven't. The most important thing for them is not one more penny in tax – not one penny. Then, in a way, this threat can not be so great if it was not worth a single penny in tax increases for anyone. In the defense sail, there are a bit of shared opinions about the use of money. I can show that after Major General Werner Christie in the Newspaper on 26 October, he supported contreadmiral Aam in that it is possible to cut a few billion in investments, the Chief of Defense Solli pulled out and said the following according to the VG on 10 November. ‘When I make a decision and promote my recommendation, we have tradition in Defence to stop the internal military debate.’ It tells me that there are different views in the defence of where we are going to spend money, and the differences I think should be made clear in the debate ahead. Then a representative of the Workers' Party was up and said that the assumption in the long-term message is broken. Yes, it is! It's broken. It's not the first time the assumptions in a message are broken. I hope that the implementation of this is just as bad as the railway message. It's not related to it either. I can point to something that Stortinget has to deal with in the future in terms of investment. And then I would like to point out the large investments – because there are large investments and not modest ones, as the representative Hernæs said today – in the case of shooting grounds in the East. So from 1997, we've calculated it by 700 million. NOK in expenses, and it is 50 pst. uncertainty related to these calculations. One can only look at what news we have today about the construction of the Rikshospitalet, in order to understand what such uncertainty means. The Swedish Aviation Agency says they have to pay NOK 30 000 a day to move the airways. Expropriation shall be carried out and remedial action shall be taken. In Hedmark this week there was a unanimous County Committee, where the Right was present, saying that remedial measures are going to amount to NOK 1.6 billion. So here probably more have to take reality inwards and prioritize.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e993	In the rowing wheel after its main post, the Council of State, Mr. Färvoll, came with some perceptive statements. If I didn't hear wrong, he just accused the head of the Workers' Party and the Right fiscal spokesman of the interest rate turmoil we got this summer! After such an eloquent opinion, I have to ask whether it is actually the Government's view and whether it is actually the Government's view that the opposition in the Storting should not participate in an ongoing political debate on the government's economic policy where one disagrees with this. Then I also have to ask about the Government, who is the analyst here, when dealing with the revised national budget in the Stortinget – where the Government even used cabinet issues to get its order through – had not taken sufficient account of the international development that has been a significant pressure on Norwegian interest rates, and where the Minister of Finance, as late as the last financial debate, reserved the oil price development in the context of a rapid fall in interest rates. I remember that when the government presented the state budget in the autumn, it received broad support for a necessary tightening of NOK 9 billion. It was the government parties themselves that reduced this tightening – even before the settlement was concluded. And I also remember that the Workers' Party as well as the Right Party and the Advance Party within this tightening up wanted to increase the stability of the defence with additions to the defence budget, among others. in order to demonstrate more loyalty to the long-term defence plan presented by the Government itself and endorsed in the Stortinget as late as June. Then the Minister of Defense says in connection with giving guarantees that he cannot give more guarantees than other representatives in this Chamber. The Minister of Defence is not a representative in this Chamber! He's a representative of the Government. And it's the government's duty to fix the basis on which the Storting can make its decisions, even when it comes to the development of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e1004	Yes, I also noticed the nominee that the Minister of Defense came with in the exchange of lines, and I was very surprised. That suggests, I think, that he tried to explain what happened in the fall, and explain the seriousness of the very unfortunate treatment we have had from the state budget, especially when it relates to the defence budget, where we were supposed to adopt a budget without even knowing the consequences of what we decided. So I hope, given what we have now been through, that in the future the Minister of Defence will be better able to show that this has been unfortunate, and that it will not be so in the future. Otherwise, the Minister of Defence did not respond to anything I asked him in a reply. I asked him to confirm that the security clearance here in the country will also take place in the future on the basis of concern for the security of the kingdom and nothing else. When it's F-5 and 336 squared, it's okay. It's just to come quickly with it to Stortinget. If it's economic, it can be good to do things quickly, so it's just to bring things up quickly, we're of course going to contribute to the conclusion that points in that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e1013	I look forward to the answer to Mr Thoresen's question, which is very timely and very central to such an occasion for a representative of the Government. I must also state that the Council of State has tried to explain why he attacked what he did when it came to the initial service. With the knife on the throat, so to speak, the Defence Command, as far as I can see, has told him that this is the best way to do it if you want to save $300 million. kr. But that's what we're concentrating on -- not the relationship between the state council and the defense's chief command, it's the Storting completely out of the question -- the majority of the population won't feel that way, the majority of the population will have a decision-making basis in relation to such a central point as the first time service. You can't just drop an amount of $300 million. kr and say: I unfortunately do not have an overview of how this is to be done or how it will work, I will come back to that after the committee has given an opinion! That's this big crowd doesn't want any of it, and the question is, Has the council understood it, or has he not understood it?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e1020	It is natural that a majority comment related to the budget base gets attention, for one thing is what has been planned over a longer period of time; another thing is what obviously comes to mind lately. But there is also information that requires a basis when the Storting is invited to make decisions, and that is where the problems begin to emerge. I got a sort of response to what I asked about the situation on June 18. I am not quite sure whether I will fully express my satisfaction with the answer, but let me try in a slightly different way: can the Minister confirm that, with regard to access to early termination, which can be done for up to six weeks for 12 months of service staff, it was fully taken out for all 12 months of service in the original budget base? In other words, would you have taken out what is the possibility of the Storting if someone were to be awarded early? Was the economic impact of it already calculated into the budget? And then what's going to be the jumping point. Something must have happened after Halvorsbøle, because then that's what it's all about. Is a reasonable time approx. September 8th, when the new requirements for cutting came? And was it then that you had already cut down what you could at the end of duty time, and looked around for opportunities to cut ahead of duty, that is, by moving the call time from July to October? If it was the time of September 8th, what makes it so hard to get a certain number material? We are now well out in December and are here to debate, and at least the numbers have not been presented to the committee at the time it would have been reasonable to get it. I am aware that we have the opportunity to come back to that number material in the revised later, but it is somewhat unsatisfactory when the Stortinget is invited to debate on such a basis. It's going to be hard when you're almost guessing a number to fit in. Now, with some support from the Ministry, we have tried to figure out some figures that are referenced and that are the result of additions in the setting. But my question is, had you only now collected more or less the six weeks for all the 12 months of service, and perhaps also the two weeks that apply to those who have a shorter service, to then later calculate savings relating to the two months in advance?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e1031	I'll try within the time available to answer as much as possible, and then I'll have to redraw. I'll start at the end. What the Council of State said no to was changing the service pattern. What was left to get a savings, a tightening of the operation in a size that could be defended and managed at the same time, was the early issue of the recruits. The question was who, how long, how many? If you read in the proposition, you see that it's made different models, and it says "up to 12 weeks". In other words, no one was to be awarded early in such a way that they were unable to serve in international operations. Special Forces, Special Areas, Telemark Battalion, Border Guard, etc. would be exempted. This is where the professional authorities assess, conclude and advise. And then I answered Bjørn Tore Godal's questions right away. The Council of State has understood what is in the position, he has understood what has been said in the debate today, he has a desire, like everyone else here in the Chamber, to present the best possible basis for the decisions to be taken. Then we can discuss how detailed the basis should be, and we'll agree on that, because this matter comes back fairly quickly to Stortinget. Whether we relate to the long-term message level or not, we are in the situation that there is a great pressure on the implementation of the first-time service, even though we had full coverage for the level in the long-term message. Then to the Minister of Defense nightmare this summer. I can't confirm that his nightmare is the government's nightmare. I have spoken for myself. It means, in other words, that when a majority in Stortinget at the end of the summer holiday actively went out and created an uncertainty as to whether a majority in Stortinget would pursue a different policy, the market registered this. It meant, in other words, that the Government had been cut off from making the tightening it wanted to do before presenting its budget proposal. And the contraction became very significant. So the government was in the straits that a majority in the Grand Duchy was running an activity that is entirely legal, which is political right if you want to, but which created an impossible situation to deal with for those who had to prepare a budget because they had created an uncertainty in the market both around the interest rate level and the economic and political future on the budget front. That's what I tried to say instead, and then the Secretary of Defense's nightmare, which I'm not going to add, is going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e1040	If I were to give friendly advice to the Minister of Defence, it was that he kept away from the field of economic policy. This is going completely wrong. Before I get back to it, I must also say that it is an extraordinary constitutional practice this government has initiated, with private-practice state councils. Not long ago, we saw a municipal minister recommending a different field of practice and shooting than the government has recommended, even in another country, and made it clear that it was a private opinion. Now the Minister of Defense expresses an opinion on the economic development which is his personal rather than government. The kind of private policy I think is at the extreme of what a government should be doing. It creates more ambiguity than the government’s policy in itself creates – and that’s bad enough. It is not the case, as the Council of State tried to produce it, that the market would be concerned if a policy other than that of the Government was pursued. That wasn't the problem this summer. The problem was government policy, what it contained. It was a mystery for the market and most observers. In addition to the oil price drop – I stress in addition to the oil price fall – the government expressed a disquieting concern in its own behaviour. Had it been so that the country had at that time had a majority government with a stable and predictable policy – I will not say which party should have been in it, but the requirement is at least stability and predictability – it would not have been a disturbance in the market. So the Minister of Defense is completely turning this on his head. I have to say that the explanations are original. I understand that it is an attempt to express frustration over the government's inner life and the fact that a council of states cannot keep their words, and that promises in June are not being kept throughout the summer. But I sometimes think it makes sense not to say everything you think.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e1050	Despite the fact that I agree with what Per-Kristian Foss said right now, I must be grateful that the Council of State nightmare is personal. But it is the Government, of which the Council of State is a member, who has a responsibility for economic policy. The preparations for what happened in the summer were made following the treatment of the revised national budget here in Stortinget. The government used cabinet questions to get through. The tightening that the Government felt was necessary to improve the level of interest rates when the government budget was presented in the fall, there was a massive majority in the Stortinget. The establishment of economic policy was not a majority. In its first attempt to reach a compromise in the Storting, it was the government parties themselves that reduced the tightening, and it was before the budgetary conciliation with other parties. So it's the government's own management of the problems in the economy that are largely due to this increase in interest rates, along with what we all know: international conditions and, in particular, the fall in oil prices. Then it becomes, even if it should be a purely personal consideration, a somewhat curative fact that what the Council of State calls a legitimate political change of words, becomes disastrous for Norwegian interest rate development, in a situation where the Government itself is in a position of financial responsibility. It'll be pointless. The fact that the way up to a budget compromise in the autumn was so long and so laborious and probably also contributed to the unrest in the economy and in the interest rate markets, it was also the government itself that was responsible for. It knew exactly what the parties meant. It knew exactly where it could go, and first five to twelve it went where it had to go.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e1062	Hans J. Røssorde has had the word twice, and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e1065	I'm not going to interfere in the debate on nightmares and stuff like that. I just want to ask for an answer to my question, I can't say that I realized that the council responded to what I asked for. I asked, Is it so that the six weeks of early termination that there is an opportunity to have, had been fully taken, calculated as a saving in the budget that was provided, and which was the basis already early? That was basically my simple question. I'm aware that the new calculations came when you had to reduce the length of service by postponing the call for October, and that's the last number we're missing. But it could have been good to find out if you had already calculated all these weeks I'm now referring to. In order not to ask for the word for explanation of vote and adjustments to the setting, I will only be allowed to point out that there is an error in the setting on page 30 of proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. Although it would have been desirable, what it says is impossible. The proposal reads: ‘There are not 7 new positions created by the defence music in 1997.’ It should be ‘1999’. Although it would have been desirable, we can't say, as a friendly soul in the hall said earlier here today, that the few that are left are going to blow higher, then we have the same effect.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e1072	I have twelve questions that I'm going to try to answer in order. I regret that this may have evolved more into a financial debate than a defence debate – but that may be exciting too. After my years in Stortinget, I have learned that the defence debates can occasionally go in several directions, and today it obviously does. To the Chairman of the Defence Committee, I would like to say briefly – after I have been informed by the Defence Command – that the six weeks had already been taken out. So to Per-Kristian Foss" request not to say everything you think. No, it has to be safe! If I had said everything I was thinking, I must have had a lot of speaking time. What I'm just doing is recording what Per-Cristian Foss is saying today, what Per-Cristian Foss said this summer, what Thorbjørn Jagland said this summer. Those days they said the same thing on the same day, and someone realized that this was an interesting coalition, wasn't very good days for a part of us. I'm going to leave just that. So to the questions from Langeland-- I'm trying to start there. How do you deal with the criticism that stands in the position? I felt a hint at a question as to whether it is so strong that it is the basis for the government to withdraw. No, it's not. I would say this is a criticism adapted to a situation with a budget that is on the table, which no one really says and feels is entirely desirable. But who wanted a 1999 with such an economic situation? No one.Oh, my God! Who knew when we dealt with the revised national budget in May that we were going to get in the situation that we had to tighten up by 9 billion kroner? Someone says today: Yes, we announced. What were you notified of? The weather forecast also says something at any time, but the difference between the breeze and the full storm is quite great. What I'm trying to say is that the warnings given to the government have taken note of them. It's done its job. It has put a budget on the table that is credible, and we've got a solution, even though it might look like it came five to twelve. But as the wage said here in the daytime, the workers in the vineyard who go out five to twelve and do the job get their reward. Maybe the reward is the one that's on the table now. In any case, I look forward to the defence budget being at the level envisaged by the long-term communication during 1999. I think it's going to be a huge budget at the end. And the defense is still flexible. We can adapt to a special year, which 1999 will be, but of course always within certain limits.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e1085	We should perhaps be glad that the Minister of Defense does not say everything he thinks – I have more than enough to deal with what comes out. Who has wished for such an economic situation, ask Färvoll. Clearly, no one has done so. But one of the main areas of responsibility that the Government has in such an economic situation is to address the economic situation. What's been the starting point of this government is that it shouldn't, because they don't have a majority. And then they're kind of going to deal with this by the old method and think that it's going to be possible to run slump on. So it doesn't. The biggest problem we have in Norwegian policy today is that this government does not have the power to choose sides in Norwegian policy. It has contributed to the strengthening of economic problems, seafaring if they are not based on this. In the debate now, which may have evolved more into a financial debate than a defence debate, reference is also made to the revised national budget. I just want to say that it was part of us who thought we should have tightened in more then. We should have done that – everyone says that now. Then we should tighten down a little less now, because now there will be more unemployment – we will also receive support for that. But we haven't heard of that. I would like to raise again a question that I tried to raise, which does not concern economic policy in general, but which is related to it. Now, when we're in a situation where we can't afford to do everything, isn't it that there are actually different opinions about what's most necessary within the defense? Are there not different views also within the Defence Department on which defence branches it is now most appropriate to invest in the future – who is going to get the big, heavy investments in the future – when we are now in the economic situation in which we are? I also hope that the Minister of Defence will be a little more clear that this government is now actually going to take action. That means they have to choose sides – a side I don't like, but it would at least bring some clarity to where this government intends to direct us.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e1096	Ingvald Godal has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e1099	I have previously in two articles pointed out that, as an oil nation, we are particularly at risk of terrorist activity. I have twice asked the Council of State to come up to the Parliament's pulpit and assure us that security clearance will take place in the future on the basis of the security of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e1104	I confirm here and now that what the Ingvald Godal pronounces, is correct, is the position of the Council of State and will be founded. As far as Karin Andersen's question is concerned, the Government is most capable of taking action. What have we been doing for over a year now? Isn't it to take action we've done, from being sentenced north and down after 14 days until we're still alive – to someone's amazement? In other words, we are also able to intervene in the field of defence and security policy. That means that what was specifically asked about now, if we want to look at conflicts and disagreements between the defenses, we will do. We will give priority. That's what I've tried in the budget, I've described what priorities I'm doing – which boats I'm adding to berth, what consequences it will have for me to change the initial service, which investment projects can't be carried out. And that's what I'm going to do, because taking priority is taking political responsibility, and it's a government council job, among other things. I have not yet answered Langeland's questions about NATO and Kosovo. Then I can say the following: the Government assumes that NATO's peace operations must be based on international law in either the consent of the parties, the right to self-defence under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter, Article 5 of the Atlantic Treaty or a UN mandate under Chapter VII or Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter. It's still on the ground. Then the Right Party and the Advance Party should be grateful for their positive contribution to the country's budget and defence budget, even if it was five to twelve. We've also got a budget to live with. Regarding the question from Inger Lise Husøy about Setnesmoen, I understand that it comes up in the Questionnaire later in December. I will therefore be allowed to come back to it. I follow the matter carefully. As for the Bjørn Tore Godal's questions concerning the majority comments on after-sales over three years, I take it as a promise from the majority, the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party that they will ensure that the necessary funds are allocated in addition to the annual frameworks for which there is a need. I can't help but express joy over that. Then I have to admit that the promise guarantees that we will be back on track for the next year in defence budget context are in Yellow Book. The promise and intentions of the Ministry of Finance, of the Minister of Finance and of the Government that we will be back on track in 2000 are in Yellow Book. It says even more than if it had just been in the defence budget. That is my guarantee, and I hope I can be the Stortingets too.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e1123	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e1131	We're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e1138	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Hans J. Røsjorde on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 3 and 4, from Hans J. Røssorde on behalf of the Progress Party. The suggestions are included in the setting on page 30. For these proposals, the President would point out that, in the case of some of the minority proposals put forward, they should probably be included in comprehensive proposals for Framework Area 8. However, the President will propose that they be admitted to voting since the Committee has chosen to do so in order to avoid very wide-ranging alternatives due to relatively small deviations. The president would also invite the Committees – and all the committees – to choose solutions that do not raise any doubt that the proposal was drafted in line with the budgetary rules of Section 19 of the Rules of Procedure. The President will propose that there be a vote on the motions for resolutions first. 3 and 4 of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the The vote will then be taken on the proposal for a decision under the framework section 8. – No objections have been raised against this, and that is how we proceed. The proposals of the Progress Party are addressed to voting. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘There are not 7 new positions to be created at the Swedish Defence Music Institute in 1997.’» Here, the correct year is going to be 1999. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘Project grants to the municipality of Trom over 3 years starting in 1999 are not accepted.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e1181	It is then voted on the proposals of the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The use of funds from the Ministry of Defence’s budgets for re-schooling large numbers of Russian officers is not accepted.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Ethnic-based quotas are not implemented.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e2717	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e2728	During the debate, Tron Erik Hovind has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party. The proposal is included in the setting on pages 4 - 8. The President will propose that there be a vote first on the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party and then on the vote. - It's passed. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 1998 shall be amended as follows: I. Chapter.ObjectivesCronesExpenditure: 481Directorate of Civil Protection01Expenditure, v e r o u k 6 300 000from kr 233 828 000from kr 240 128 0001700Federal Ministry of Defence01Expenditure, v e r u k 1 100 000from kr 99 694 000to kr 100 794 00073Research and development,can be carried out,v e r d e r d 279 547 0001719Federal institutions can to $ 7 000from kr 7 000 to kr 6 920 00017 0001710Federal expenditure,v e r e r u r t u r e r e r s e r e r e r e r e r s from krone,v e r 1 797 000 from krone from krone to krone,v 1 000 from krone from krone to krone from krone 1760, entry 47,v e r r e d u r t by 43 419 000 from NOK 106 992 000 to NOK 63 573 00045Larger equipment purchases, can be transferred, v e r t a u k by 99 306 00 from NOK 5 685 380 000 to NOK 5 784 686 00047New constructions and installations, can be transferred, can be used subchapter. 1760 items 11 and 44, v e r t a u k a with 267 666 000from NOK 1 052 645000 to NOK 1 320 311 00048Co-financed construction work, can be transferred, reduced by 87 545 000 from NOK 356 639 000 to NOK 269 094 00060Subsidies to municipalities, by NOK 3 000 000 000 from NOK 0 to NOK 3 000 00075Co-financed construction and works, Norway's contribution to the infrastructure programme in NATO, can be transferred, can be used. 1760, entry 44, v e r t r e d u s t by 90 000 000 from NOK 184 268 000 to NOK 94 268 0001761The relocation of the defence Gardermoen01Operating costs, v e r t u r t by 7 475000 from NOK 23 996 000 to NOK 16 521 00047New constructions and installations, may be transferred, v e r t a u k by 180 126 000from NOK 34 157 000 to NOK 214 283 0001790Coastal duty, v e r t a u k a by 2 349 000 from NOK 531 588 000 to NOK 533 937 00045Large new purchases, can be transferred, can be used subchapted. 1760, item 45, v e r t r e r t by 116 500 000 from NOK 168 130 000 to NOK 51 6300001791Spare stones01Operating costs, v e r t u r t by 319 000 from NOK 193 521 000 to NOK 190 412 00045Large new purchases, can be transferred, can be used sub-chapter. 1760, entry 45, v e r t r e r t y d with 185 000from DKK 0 to DKK 185 0001792Norwegian forces abroad01Operating expenditure, v e r t u r t 6 000 000from NOK 1 232 553 000from NOK 1 226 553 0001793Vaksentraininga01Operating expenditure, v e r t a u k with 27 383 000from NOK 112 305000 from NOK 139 688 000from NOK 4000001795Cultural and general purpose01Operating expenditure, v e r t a u k a with NOK 1054 000from NOK 130 334 000 to NOK 131 388 00060Affiliation to municipalities, v e r t l ø v d with DKK 400000from NOK 0 to DKK 400 00072Transfers to others, v e r t a u k with NOK 1086 000from NOK 1067 000 to NOK 153 0001798Ferial organisation of the defence01Operate expenditure, v e r d e r d e r d e r t e r t e r t e r t e r kr kr 1 240 34 000 from DKK 33 34 000 from DKK [[(see section 4.4). cap. 481)]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e5455	The President assumes that the Christian People's Party and the Central Party will now vote in favour of the vote, since their proposals have fallen. However, the President has been told that the Socialist Left wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-04.ana.ud1711e5471	There is no record.
