ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e27	: The called alternate of the Rogaland County, Helge Solum Larsen, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e35	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e40	I suggest Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e45	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is proposed as president. Other proposals are not available, and Bjarne Håkon Hansen is unanimously elected President of the current sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e64	On Monday, the Storting received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government will meet for oral Question Time. State Council Peter Angelsen State Council Kåre Gjøne State Council Jon Lilletun State Council Guro Fjellanger The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. Some representatives have signed up in advance with a request to ask questions. The representatives who also wish to ask the main questions are asked to rise. - Thank you. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Petter Løvik.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e86	I want to ask a question to the Council of State Lilletun. We all want a good school. Some of the most important things to get to a good school are good and motivated teachers, and getting a good motivation is a good working environment as a whole. Then it's a little suspicious when we read again about increasing power against teachers, the latter in the Glamdalen on 23 October, where killing threats, attempts to fire the teachers' housing, knife troubles and rough oral use are described. This is something we see in many places and on an ever-increasing scale. My question is, can we and should we accept this? My right and my right answer is a clear no, and I want to ask the Council of State, is he in agreement with that assessment? And if he is, what in concrete terms will the Council of State do to remedy this?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e95	The representative Løvik and the party Right and Government are quite a few that of course it cannot be accepted. The problem area is compounded, and it's big. I would like to emphasize that this is the exception and not the rule, but the exceptions are so serious that of course something has to be done in relation to this. The government has started a series of actions. One of the things that has shown the best results so far is the work of the conflict council, which is now being stepped up and tried to be transferred to more and more schools at the youth school stage – which was the original one – and now also to the further ones. We think we're going to solve this problem, we're going to have to get the students on board. We have to create a confirmation at school that makes a common do something about this, for once again: it's the exceptions on the school that stand for that kind of behavior. I have registered the same thing as the representative Løvik, and have invited the teachers' organisations to a meeting on November 5 where this will be discussed. The message the Storting has requested for when it concerns teacher recruitment will also deal with this. In addition, I would like to point out an important work with a contact company that Oslo is doing, where each school has a contact system with the police, which has proved to be working in a good way. So there's not one answer, but a lot of answers, and we recognize that we don't have all of them.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e104	On 19 November last, I raised about the same question with the same Council of State, and the background was the Teacher's examination, which to a large extent shows that what we are talking about is an exception. But 24 pst. teachers have been exposed to power — both youth and childhood — and 48 pst. By the teachers, the school doesn't do enough. Also, the Council of State said that this was an important and complex matter, and it is quite funny that the Council of State basically had the same solutions: a meeting and a big message. Then there would be a meeting week after, an experience conference where these questions would be addressed. In addition, it was said that there would be a big message about special education in the spring of 1998. What came out of the conference, I don't know, but I know what came out of the big message – nothing really came out of it when it comes to power against the teachers. I therefore hope that both the meeting and the big message that the Council of State is now saying will come, this time will give something far more concrete than the Council of State promised a year ago.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e109	It's not that anything came out of it. First of all, it is obvious that conducting special teaching skills closer to the student and closer to the school is helpful to the teacher. Furthermore, at that time, the first round of the conflict council had not been evaluated. Now it is evaluated, and matters are being stepped up in cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Education and Research. But I would be too simple in my answers if I pretended there's not a long-standing process behind the developments we've had in school -- a process based on many superior social relationships. It's not done in one year! We're doing a good job, but I can't stand here and give an answer. Nevertheless, a lot of things have been done in this matter since the representative Løvik first took this up.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e114	There will be follow-up questions – Bjørn Hernæs.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e117	It is difficult not to perceive the Council of State as trying to minimize a very serious problem. When he says that this is the exception and not the rule, it reminds me of the prison director who in a situation with a lot of escapes said you should not forget that most of the prisoners, after all, were in prison! If the Council of State is satisfied with that kind of statement, you can of course get quite far. So the point is that it's going to last, and it's also going to say the local papers in small places. This is a problem that has to be taken seriously, and one of the things that needs to be discussed now is whether the school should get back its right to intervene harder against impossible students. Violence against students and violence against teachers cannot be accepted. Will the Ministry now consider resuming the proposal of the Right to give the municipalities the opportunity to lay down rules which will allow the principal to present those students who do not behave in such a way as to be required as an absolute minimum in order to be able to teach in Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e126	In my view, the laws and rules that apply today are good enough for one to intervene – and that is not an attempt to minimize. But I think it is important that we insist that the exceptions to this apply, not be allowed to create a picture of Norwegian school as a school where primarily the chosen one dominates. But at the same time, it's not like I'm pretending the problem doesn't exist. On the contrary, we're working on it in full. We have the legislation to do. At the same time, it is not a solution to go back to the Spanish pipe, if that is what is in the representative Hernæs' proposal, but it is actually going through social pedagogical work. And one thing I think would be useful is getting new professionals into school. The teacher is primarily trained as a teacher, to teach. I think we also need other social educational professionals who can prevent this kind of problem behaviour.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e132	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e135	I will be asked a question to the Minister of Church, Education and Research. State Council Lilletun, together with the Minister of Health, has stopped the educational programme on life and sexuality. It is the Health Inspectorate, the government's own professional body, that has had the professional responsibility for this programme. Many different disciplines with a high level of competence have contributed to its development, including educators. It is strange that the Council of State intervenes and makes a political assessment of this teaching material and asks for a new professional assessment from the University of Agder. What's with this teaching material that works consistently on the Council of State? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e144	This information material on living is provided by the Health Inspectorate for use among others. in health centres for young people. The main objective has thus not been to create a material for use in the school. However, provision has been made for schools to use it in education. This was done naturally with a professional assessment by the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research, especially since a government agency has produced the material. My first reaction was that there had to be an independent professional and pedagogical assessment. The department of the department has asked the Högskulen in Agder, which has a wide range of professional environments, to make such an assessment. Now there is a good and thorough assessment from the Hochskulen in Agder. This assessment points to the fact that material has many positive aspects, including: that one presents the theme with humor and joy and in a youthful way. But weak aspects of the structure are also being brought forward as teaching materials in the school. I have noted the assessment and have based on this particular following: I follow the consistent assessment from the Högskulen in Agder to raise the age limit of the teaching video to 15 – 16 years – i.e. what was previously 9th grade, no 10th grade. The Ministry sees the need for relevant teaching material on living together for the lower classes, and we follow this up in the new plan of action on unwanted pregnancy and abortion. Creating material in the field of living and sexuality will be used to update teaching staff. It is also necessary to develop a educational guide to the video to make it easier for the school to use the film in education. This should be a guide for both teachers and elephants. The report from the Högskulen in Agder states that a guide will be provided before the material is put into use in the school, as was also planned by the State Health Authority. The Agder highlight indicates that the CD game has several weak sides, both in terms of content in general and in terms of age. The ministry does not consider the game to be the property of educational institutions in the school. It may, however, be better suited for small groups in connection with work at health centres, as also stated in the report of the High School in Agder.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e151	A group under the Church Council has seen the computer game and evaluated it positively, for use in the firm instruction. Norwegian Educational Center, which has assessed the computer game and recommended it for distribution in the Nordic region, is also one of our professional bodies, so that the professional evaluation should be solid. It's scary to hear that you want to raise the age limit. It's too late! The situation of young people must be based on their own situation. Is it the life - style of each State Council that should always apply to sexual education? I am familiar with the basics of the Council of State, and have also heard the Minister of Family Valgerd Svarstad Haugland say that marriage is a God-like arrangement for the benefit of children and adults. Is there such a narrow view, which not all parts, which should be the starting point for information to young people, or should it be the health and ethical considerations that should apply?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e160	There is a broad view that should apply. And when it relates to teaching arrangements that are designed, it is entirely relevant to have it assessed in relation to age and to the objectivity of education in the school versus in smaller groups. If you want it to be used in the firm education, you have the full opportunity to buy this game from the Health Authority. We've had a review in relation to age and some others. It's the department of ours that's been in contact with the højskull when it comes to the report that's been made. It's thorough, it's broad, and it's the recommendations -- which are unanimous -- that we're largely following up on. When you go in and look at the setup and read it in relation to the report that's made, I think it's going to come in the way that was before class nine, which is now class ten, will be a good solution to this case, and I feel perfectly sure that here will [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e165	Synnove Konglevoll – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e168	Norwegian and international research shows that good sex skills are needed to develop a secure sexual identity. It postpones the onset, it prevents unwanted pregnancy and abortion among young people, it reduces the incidence of sexually transmitted diseases, and it is important to prevent sexual abuse. Research also shows that this type of knowledge must be disseminated at an early age, i.e. in good time before sexual activity. I think it's naive to think that you can spare young people a knowledge of sexuality by postponing school education until they're 16. In fact, 1/3 have debuted before that time. The video and computer game have been based on the questions young people from 13 years of age and up have asked on the so-called SUSS phone, a green line where young people can ask about sex and life. The material has also been tested and developed in cooperation with young people. On what basis has the Council of State chosen to question not only the professional competence of the Health Authority but also the experience of young people to whom this material is directed?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e175	Governments have not used their personal view of this. Governments have asked one of the heavy educational environments in this country to go through it, and have received a report. That's the report I use as a state council relative to how I recommend it used – whether I consider it suitable for use in school. It is quite right that the representative, Mr Konglevoll, says that an early education is needed. That's why we've also said that we want to make more material that fits the curriculum at lower levels. But what we also say when it comes to this video is that we're some of the people who make a unanimous recommendation from the high school, that it fits best in the highest class in the high school. We have a holistic pedagogical view of this, and I refer safely to the material that leads.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e180	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e183	I have a question to the State Council. The Government of State Council has appointed a sample to investigate a system of greenhouse gas emission allowances. Any climate agreement with the trading of allowances could have serious economic consequences for Norwegian industry and business, so we in the Progress Party strongly respond to the fact that neither the NHO nor the Land Association of the Process Industry are represented in this sample. And then my question is to the Council of State: why are employers' and employees' organisations not included in this sample, so that you can be sure that Norwegian companies and thousands of jobs are being looked after in the best possible way?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e190	The government has appointed an allowance selection both on its own initiative in the Climate Change Communication, in the follow-up to the Kyoto Agreement and following the Storting Recommendation. We have appointed this in line with what the Stortinget asked for, namely a selection of professionals. We have not understood that it is right that this sample should be a sample of representatives from different environments, and therefore neither employers' representatives, the employees' side nor the environmental movement are appointed by virtue of such representation. Nevertheless, we thought it was important to have professionals from these environments. This is why, among other things: the environmental director of Statoil appointed in this panel as a professional. In addition to this sample of professionals, we want a close and good dialogue with business, environmental organisations and others who are interested in these issues. That's why the government has said quite clearly that we're going to appoint a reference group in parallel with this, where all of these interests are represented, just to ensure that the interests are heard, and to ensure a good dialogue with them.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e198	I thank the Council of State for the answer. When appointing a selection of professionals, I would like to remind the Council of State that there is considerable professional expertise in both the NHO and the Land Association of Process Industries on the issue of quota trading. And I just want to ask the Council of State at the end: isn't there any chance that the NHO and the National Association of Process Industries can join this sample, so they're in the process right from the start?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e203	I am not least in doubt that both in the NHO, in the PIL, in the LO, in the environmental movement and in the General Organisation of the Commerce and Service Industries there are professionals who could contribute to this work. But we've seen it important to appoint a sample that's not too large, and also have a reference group that can work alongside this, so that all these interests and professionals are heard and represented, and that their experiences benefit the selection. We consider the appointment of the sample to be completed. I have received an enquiry from the NHO to supplement the sample, and of course I will evaluate it. But I see it as pretty complicated to include representatives from that side without also supplementing the sample with others.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e208	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e211	I want to ask the Minister of Church, Education and Research a question. Earlier this year, the government has requested the work of the Fifth Framework Programme in the EU on research. The special feature of this programme is that it concerns advanced technologies. The Council of State has also reported on the budget in the budget budget's pro posal that this work is under way. In general, Norway is involved in the preparation of these programmes, both because we are a contributor and because we are interested. Is it correct that Norway is now excluded and does not sit and prepare a programme to which we show initiative, because Spain blocks the EEA Agreement because of a financial contribution in another area?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e218	It is right that the representative, Mr Knudsen, says that the Stortinget has asked us to work for the Fifth Framework Programme, and we have alerts in St. pp. No 1 how we do it. The final decisions in the EU in relation to this will, after the last messages I have received, probably take place on 10 or 11 December. It is obvious that the EEA Agreement gives us the right to full participation, but it does not give us the full right to participate in all preparatory processes in the EU internal organs. But I can then row the Council of State Knudsen – cause, the representative Knudsen! [[Laughter]] I don't know how to interpret that people lie! Then I continue – I say I am sorry for the mistalion: – Last Friday I was at a meeting between the EU Minister of Education and the EEA Ministers where this was a topic. And it is quite obvious that we have no reason to believe that we will not be fully able to participate in the Fifth Framework Programme, and that they will also accept the signals we have in relation to it, without the EEA Agreement giving us full rights to participate in all internal work in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e225	I have an additional question: does this mean that Norway is not now excluded, as has been made known in research environments, because Spain has a negative relationship with the EEA Agreement due to financial contributions that are now cancelled? I have another supplementary question: if Norway is now excluded in any way, what will the Government actively do? This is not just a framework programme, it concerns the wider scope of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e232	From the side of Spain, this is quite clearly about trying to push Norway to something they are not under contractual obligation in relation to the transfer of funds through the EEA Agreement, which ends this year. I don't want to get any closer to it. When it comes to participation in the preparation of programmes and other things, it will always be up to the EU's own bodies. We can't refer to a right that we don't have. It'll be a little bit different within the different cases. But as I said, I had contact with the government councils in this area, as late as Friday, and I was going to believe that it is reasonably active that we in the research area make sure that we leave our voice on the right, and I also have the impression that it will be heard.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e239	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e242	I'll have to ask the Minister for the Environment. For approx. A year ago we had quite fresh fights here in the Storting around the Kyoto conference and the Norwegian government's role as an environmental brake there. What remained after that was a clear assurance from the Minister for the Environment that the next round would be to help from Norway close the loopholes that remained after Kyoto. They will be known at the Buenos Aires conference in a few days' time. The most important thing is to prevent a system of international quota buying-in that effectively deprives industrialised countries of responsibility, for example. by purchasing allowances from the abandoned Russian industry. In order to ensure such a system, it is necessary to introduce a ceiling on how much of the quotas of developed countries can be withdrawn abroad. This is also crucial in order to put sufficient pressure on Western industry for technological transformation. Technological change is crucial to solving the climate problem. [[President clubs]] It can only happen in the West for how much can be taken abroad. [[(President clubs):]] So the question is, will the government go in for a roof?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e249	The President stresses the need to stay within speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e252	There's no doubt that what's going to be the most important thing in Buenos Aires is bringing the process forward. It means, first of all, putting in place a regulatory framework for the flexible mechanisms to ensure that these do not become loopholes. Then I and the representative Solheim have a different view of how we ensure it. I have understood that the representative Solheim believes that it can only be done by putting a roof in the form of a number. I believe that at least as much can be done by ensuring that national reports are improved, by working to avoid simplification, as a number of countries would like, by working to ensure that national reports also have to describe what is being done at home, and not least by linking this to what is stated in the Protocol that countries must have demonstrated progress in reaching their commitments by 2005. I believe that this, together with full transparency about who participates, both in joint implementation, in the Clean Development Mechanism and in the trading of allowances, will be the main contribution to preventing loopholes. In addition, I think it is important to stress that when you buy and sell allowances, it should not only be the seller who is responsible if it turns out that you have sold allowances that you did not have the right to sell, but the buyer should also have a liability. I feel that these measures are the most effective to close loopholes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e258	State Council Lilletun was obviously somewhat in doubt about who was in government at the moment, and I can understand that when I hear this answer, because here there is certainly no change in relation to the previous government – rather, the level of ambition is now in the process of being lowered. One question could be whether the government will ask Thorbjørn Berntsen for an apology for the strong words that were used for a long time on the environmental policy of the Workers' Party. But now leave it. More importantly, the process in Buenos Aires. The Waksenåsen Declaration states that the Government’s objective is to ‘bring its emissions of CO2 and other greenhouse gases down to 1989 levels by Norway by 2005’. It remains to be heard how to get Western countries, including Norway, to bring their emissions down to such a level without the pressure for technological development in a roof. I would like to repeat the question in a slightly different form: if the EU or others raise the question of hold in Buenos Aires, is it so to understand that Norway will then prevent a roof from being introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e265	I don't think we agree on the objective of the meeting in Buenos Aires, namely to pass on the process. I wonder that you might think that the only way to secure yourself against dirt holes is to put a roof. No one has yet given a good answer to how to calculate such a ceiling, nor has anyone come up with clear wording as to whether there should be an overall ceiling or a single thank-you for each single mechanism, which would lead to a very bureaucratic and complicated system without the roof itself ensuring that it is actually dealt with, for example. ‘hot air’. It is far more important to ensure that mechanisms such as: national reports, full transparency in the process, full transparency about who buys and sells, and there is no doubt that it must be the most important contribution in relation to not dealing with anything that should not be dealt with. In fact, it is in the Minutes that this should be a supplement, and I take the Minutes seriously. This means that we need to implement measures at home, and this must also be demonstrated in relation to the protocol by 2005. So we don't want to go in for a roof.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e272	There will be follow-up questions – Hallgeir H. Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e275	SV is not allowed to join Buenos Aires, and we think we're sorry, because we're the only environmental opposition on Stortinget again. I want to follow up a little of what Erik Solheim said in relation to the national obligations and the requirements to be met. It is quite clear what is stated in the Waksenåsen Declaration in relation to CO2 and 1989 levels, and I thought the Council of State was somewhat unclear in its answer. The objectives are so far not followed up by anything specific by the Government. The Energy and Environment Committee has identified Norway as having to implement a monthly part of national commitments. Now the legislation to be negotiated must require each country to implement 85 pst. as national measures. How does the Council of State respond to this concrete requirement of 85 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e284	Let me first say that the department has invited Stortinget to stand with five representatives, and that the Stortinget itself decides who they should be. As far as I know, we are also among the countries with the highest number of parliamentarians, and I think that is important and useful. We have good experience with that from the Kyoto meeting last year. I don't think it's going to be particularly surprising to the representative Langeland, when I've already said that I'm against setting a thank-you, that I don't see the great sense of putting that ceiling to 85 pst. I don't think that's the way you actually get control of dealing with real emissions, you have to have good control arrangements for the measures themselves, and the concept of who buys and sells allowances. That's the only way to make sure that this is real cut we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e291	There will be follow-up questions – Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e294	On climate change, more and more researchers are both internationally and nationally critical of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the alleged CO2 problem. I can refer to Professor Øystein Nordeng, Svein S. Andersen, Per Anker-Nilssen, Bjørn Lomberg and also the University of Oslo, which is critical of the CO2 problem. My question to the Council of State is: Should we not be careful at first to launch very costly and uncertain measures with such a long time horizon before we know much more about the climate issue?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e301	I would like to stress that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is very broadly composed of our leading climate scientists globally. They have expressed concern that we are in the process of getting climate change as a result of anthropogenic influence. We can't afford to take the chance that they're wrong. If it turns out that we have climate change, the consequences will be very large. There are many who believe that we who are from North Norway, then will be blessed with warmer weather, but unfortunately that is not so. The consequences may include, inter alia: be that the Gulf Stream no longer goes where it now goes. Especially ill will the consequences of climate change be for the poor part of the world. We know that there is a danger that it can lead to more storms and more floods. We can't afford to take these challenges seriously. I have no doubt that, in a long-term perspective, money will also be much more expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e306	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e309	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. I would like to give the Minister of Agriculture the opportunity to clarify the confusion created by the revised EEA agreement, the so-called veterinary agreement. After an intention and a round with the EU to renegotiate the agreement – where nothing happened – the government came back and made the impression that they also thought this was a good agreement. And in a press release by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs after the EEA Committee had taken its decision in July, it said: ‘The new agreement ensures Norway’s export interests while taking into account safe food and good animal health.’ A number of new national control programmes have been identified and further developed: ‘These programmes, together with the new EEA provisions, will provide the basis for the continuation of good Norwegian animal and public health.’ In advance of the proposal on this issue, the discussion has now come to an end, and at the latest two days since the visit of the Vice-President of the Centre Party, Odd Roger Enoxsen, to this agreement. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e326	Number is Out
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e330	My question: Will the Minister of Agriculture agree, or will he support Enoxen?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e335	The size has previously debated the EEA Agreement after a statement by the Minister of Agriculture at the time. The decision has been taken by the Storting against the Government on the way in which this is to be carried forward. The government has, of course, been loyal to the decisions taken by the Stortinget and, through consultation with the Stortinget, completed this work, which has resulted in the decision of the EEA Committee to which the representative Rudihagen refers. In the near future, there will be a proposition to the Storting where the Government presents the agreement with the measures that are also necessary to meet the control needs that we refer to. So I would like to say to myself that it will be impossible to go to Stortinget with such a proposition without being sure that the measures being taken ensure that we take care of what has to do with health and animal health safety in the future. I must admit that part of the debate that is going on in the media seems to me to have a fairly high level of noise. But me, who knows these three letters EEA pretty well from before, doesn't surprise it! But it is right and important when we first move into these kinds of issues, that we ensure that we meet the requirements of safe food quality that Norwegian consumers have, and also safeguard animal health, which we have a high standard in Norway today. We have already tried to add up through several control programs to document our own standard. I just have to say as Minister of Agriculture that I am a little worried that we have actually discovered that there are some diseases within our livestock that I thought we were free of, but that we have discovered through the control programmes we have now started.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e348	This is a strange situation in many ways. One has a sense that at least some councils are on the move, but protests to all the world. Government Council Gjønes has previously expressed that it is a good agreement. I have a press release from the Ministry of Agriculture where the Gjønnes strands realize that there is nothing in the revised agreement that prevents Norwegian authorities from doing what is necessary to ensure safe food for Norwegian consumers. In the debate we are now seeing going on in the media, there is a fear and a perception in the Norwegian people that the new agreement will now almost open up to the free movement of animal products and live animals, so that the risk of infection will increase enormously. Is it not because a responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture now has to go out and calm this down, perhaps also a little in cooperation with his good colleague, the Minister of Fisheries? We know that fishing industries need this agreement – they export a total of 15 billion dollars to the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e355	There is a need for the Minister of Agriculture to say that this is first and foremost a matter that lies before the Minister of Foreign Affairs and that the proposition will be promoted from there. But, of course, as Minister of Agriculture, I have a responsibility in relation to the questions raised by the representative Rudihagen. In relation to when the Council of State is going to actively go out with its argument and participate in debate, I have chosen as the Council of State to do this work internally in the Government as long as the Government has this matter under consideration. The Minister of Agriculture will clearly take part in this debate when the Government has promoted the proposition towards the Stortinget. I think it's the most correct way for a Council of State to participate in the debate. In relation to the pressure on imports, the volume of imports is not primarily regulated by this agreement. It is regulated by the customs regulations we have in relation to the WTO Agreement. But we can imagine a situation in which we meet new WTO negotiations, where a larger volume of imports as such will also make the challenges of control the greater.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e364	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e367	The first part of the Minister of Agriculture’s answer left a question, namely why the Council of State would recommend the Stortingen to adopt this agreement. I can well see that when the Minister of Agriculture will recommend the Stortinget to approve this agreement, it is simply because the agreement is good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e372	Firstly, it is the government that comes up with its position towards the Storting, which will be present in the proposition promoted by the Government towards the Storting. It is not the task of the Minister of Agriculture today to say what it is all about as such, but it is clear that neither the Minister of Agriculture nor the Government is presenting a proposition here in the Stortingen with the conclusion that one must draw, without the Government taking responsibility for what is in that proposition, and, where appropriate, the measures to be taken then to provide safe food and animal health in Norway. It's clearly a government obligation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e377	It will be another follow-up question – Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e380	I would like to ask Mr Angelsen a follow-up question on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e385	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e388	I understand the answer that the Minister of Agriculture has now given, that he goes very far in saying that this is an agreement he can recommend, and that he does not push the bulk of the population in front of him, but that we are going to have a proposition that the Government will recommend that Norway go in to extend the EEA Agreement in the veterinary field – i.e. with the Government's recommendation. I would like to know if the Central Party State Council Angelsen, the Minister for Fisheries, believes that this is a good agreement in the veterinary field for Norway, and whether the consequences for fish are so great that it is necessary to accept major deterioration in public health in order to get such an agreement in place.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e396	As explained by the Minister of Agriculture, the Government will bring the matter before the Storting in a proposition where the Government is in favour of the extended EEA Agreement with the EU. I think it might be right to await the debate on the content of the agreement itself until the Government has been presented with its proposal to the Stortinget, where the whole of the Government's assessment of both measures and the impact of the agreement on Norwegian industry, animal health and to the extent that food safety will be demonstrated. I can only briefly say that, in terms of the situation of the fishing industry, Norway is a major exporter of fish food, and of course we have to deal with the changes that are taking place in the markets. The reason why we have to decide on this EEA Agreement is the changes that have occurred in the Union market. We have to deal with that, and it's going to be explained in the proposition that will be presented to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e403	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e406	In that case, it is not surprising that the Minister for Fisheries is in favour of an agreement of fundamental importance for the Norwegian fishing industry. But I would like to supplement Mrs. Halvorsen's question. The Minister of Agriculture made it clear that to the extent that he promotes such a proposition on behalf of the Government, there is no pen from the Stortinget. The government then has an independent belief that this is a good deal for Norway. Can I perceive Angelsen's response so that he also sees this agreement as a good agreement for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e413	As I said in my previous reply, the agreement that we are now going to present to the Storting implies that there have been changes in the EU market that Norway has to deal with. While there are not only positive aspects to the changes that have occurred in the EU market, Norway has to deal with this, and from an overall assessment it would be beneficial for the Norwegian fishing industry to join the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e418	Dag Terje Andersen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e421	Then I'll be allowed to go back to the one to which the main question was addressed, with my follow-up question. The representative, Halvorsen, suggested that the agreement we are discussing would cause ‘great deterioration in people’s health’. There has been a starting point for some — I would say — trendy look-up in the newspapers recently, most recently in the newspaper for a few days back, where it is among other things. is startled with various bacteria that in themselves have such difficult names that it might be enough to scare most of us. But the reality is that there are some bacteria that we do not control today under today's import legislation. I could imagine asking the Minister of Agriculture if that is the case when, for example. Campylobacter and E-Colibacteria — to use the names; it is what is most alarmed in propaganda by day — that there is control at all for those bacteria according to today’s control system, and whether the new control system prevents us from controlling for this.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e428	We can deal with today's legislation and the checks we carry out, and then compare with that. I kind of think it's a little irrelevant. We can also put more resources into today's system. We can extend the control program, we can extend the sampling to other fields than those that we have today. But what is our responsibility, we can say, is that the control measures that we have at any time are good enough for us to offer Norwegian consumers safe, good quality food. Whether it happens within one or the other contractual system, our responsibility is to facilitate this in terms of control systems and the financial resources we need to put in to do that task. And this we will discuss in the proposition and present to the Grand Government both what is, and the great new challenges such an agreement may – if it is now adopted – bring with it, and also the way in which the Government sees that we are going to add up to mastering these problems. This is no easy matter for the Government, and I don't think it should be for the Storting. We have to be clear that here we have both positive and negative sides that we have to balance out, and that's really the role of politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e435	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e438	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. Fisheries and the fishing industry are crucial for employment and coastal settlement, and not least in the national districts of the Council of State. It is a large export industry and, of course, market access is crucial for maintaining this high level. This with border crossing and veterinary directives is, of course, important in this context. I have a question for the Council of State that doesn't go on the content of the proposition that we get to the Stortinget. The fishing industry fears what will happen to any Norwegian veto. What I could imagine asking the expert councils about is what are the actual consequences of a possible veto, and that we get a border crossing there compared to 50 pst. Norwegian fish to be opened for border control?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e445	Now I see that the question of a Norwegian veto is a question of whether Norway should join the extended agreement or not. Based on that, I have provided an answer to that question. The enlarged system within the EU, with the removal of internal borders as regards cross-border controls of food products, means that the EU introduced a control system that is relatively cost-effective for the industries concerned. From 1996 onwards, Norway has implemented EU legislation in our regulatory frameworks on controls and health rules for the production of fish products. This has resulted in a significant cost, and there is still a significant investment need in the Norwegian fishing industry to be able to follow up. It is clear that if we manage to implement it according to the intentions we have set up, an extension of the agreement will be positive for the fishing industry, but as I said, it costs a lot for Norwegian fishing industry to participate in this agreement. But if we do not participate in the agreement, we will obviously face the problem of increased border control. As far as it would lead to higher costs for the industry, we have not assessed directly, but we assume that it would be a significant advantage for the fishing industry to join the agreement, and it is one of the reasons why the Government will submit to the Storting a proposal that Norway joins the EEA extended agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e452	I'm aware that most of what goes on in veterinary conditions is implemented, but what goes on in border control is not included, and that's what goes on. What I ask the expert councils about is what will be the consequences for the Norwegian fishing industry, and the Council of State then says that the cost of it has not yet been assessed. I expect this proposition to come in less than a very long time. I thought one of the most important things about this veterinary directive was to assess what could be a potential negative impact on the Norwegian fishing industry. And then I really have to ask: what is the action option for the Norwegian fishing industry if so wrong that up to 50 pst. of the trailers standing on the EU border shall open their refrigerators for full control? What, then, is the action option for industry?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e458	Now I think we're discussing a theoretical thing that doesn't really belong. When the government has said that it will put forward a proposition to join the extended EEA Agreement, I think it might be a bit irrational to start discussing a side of the matter that is not up to date, and therefore would not have been necessary to assess it. When I say that the cost to the industry of border crossing has not been assessed by our not joining the agreement, it is because it is very difficult to fully assess the costs it will entail. While it is clear that this will lead to costs, it is difficult to compare the costs of the investments that the industry now has to make, we have therefore seen it as not appropriate to go into the demanding work. That's what's the reason for the answer I gave.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e463	Steinar Bastesen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e466	I have an additional question for the Minister for Fisheries that goes right on this with the cost of the industry. The large-scale upgrading of coastal fishing is also a price to be paid in order to have free border crossings in port – not just to import food, and partly food that they do not want in the EU, we do not know that. But my question is: How does the government intend to ensure that the fisheries farms that need to be upgraded will receive funding? The consequence of not obtaining the necessary capital to renew is large-scale closure of a number of fish farms around that country. The Minister for Fisheries already knows that – I have asked questions about it in the past, and I have made suggestions to set up a fund that fishing farms can draw on to upgrade. There's nothing in the budget that says we're going to save the fish farms. There is a large-scale closure and centralisation in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e471	Now, the statement that Mr. Bastesen is making is not correct. The government has not seen the need to set up a separate fund to help the fishing industry with capital in order to upgrade itself to meet the requirements of the facilities. In the draft budget under discussion in Stortinget, we have increased both the lending framework for the district development funds and the grant schemes from just over 700 million. SEK to just under 840 million. NOK 136 million. kr i plus. We have foreseen that the SND should give priority to the upgrade imposed on the fishing industry in order to comply with the legislation that has been established. The government has also exempted investments in the fishing industry with regard to the so-called short-term cyclical charge. This shows that the Government has seen the problem. We have taken into account the inclusion and priority of the public support schemes for the upgrade.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e476	Siri Frost Sterri – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e479	I want an additional question to the Minister for Agriculture relating to this main issue, because I notice that the Minister for Fisheries is getting very confused and becoming very unclear as to what was a very concrete question, namely whether this veterinary agreement is crucial for Norwegian fish exports, where the EU is our big market. My question to the Minister of Agriculture is, since he here states that he will continue to participate in the debate within the Government and assert his influence there: How does the Minister of Agriculture assess fish exports in relation to the agreement, where the presentation of the Storting is similar to the corner?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e484	Of course, the Minister of Agriculture has no better prerequisite than the Minister of Fisheries to assess that issue. We have different departments and different state councils precisely because we need different areas to answer compared to this kind of question in the Storting. I just want to say that from the government it has been clearly stated that what is involved in fish, we will take care of through the processing of this agreement. It has been said publicly in the past, so there is no new information from the Minister of Agriculture. It is at the bottom of the Government’s approach to dealing with this agreement, but otherwise the Government has not yet promoted any proposition. It is to be promoted for the Stortinget, and the Stortinget will have ample opportunity to assess both the job done by the Government, with the adjustments made by the Government, and to make the decision it is up to the Storinget to make at the end. But for all of us, I assume that it must be an objective to master this in such a way that one takes care of the overall interests that we are responsible for politically, both in relation to consumers, in terms of health issues, and in relation to animal health.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e489	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e492	I have a question for the Council of State Lilletun, and it's based on a headline that was reading in the Roman journal yesterday: 'Rejecting to send the children to school.' This refers to poor indoor settings in the school, which the Children’s Ombudsman has pointed out quite correctly. We have a wide range of other cases where parents have refused to send children to school, there have been exceptions, there may be bullying, there may be special education – compared to individual decisions – that parents experience that the children do not have, and they choose such an untraditional solution as home schooling instead. This home schooling is like a carousel, more and more people come up with, and it's going faster and faster. My question to the Council of State will then be: Will you in the future be in favour of home education as a good and in all ways equivalent to public and private school education?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e497	First, I want to clarify that I am now responding in general and not in relation to the statement to which the representative Evje referred. I don't know. The views of the Council of State and the Government are that it is best for all children to receive education in school. We thought we had a good public school, and we're working to make it better. In order to preserve parental rights, there is also the possibility of establishing and running private schools, which provide a good challenge for the public school, and which in my view is a good supplement to the public school. When it comes to home education, this government has a bill, adopted by the Stortingen, that parental rights should also apply here. Parents shall have the right to be taught at home, but then with supervision, so that they know that the children receive the training they need. Compared to that, we have recommended learning material, etc. is made available from the municipality, but it would be totally wrong to go into funding home education in line with public schools or private schools. The government's view is that it's good for kids to go to school, and we're working to make the school the best possible. We, of course, maintain the right of parents to choose different ways, but we guarantee ourselves the right to have proper control over it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e510	Does the Council of State mean that if you choose home education under the Training Act, it will not, when the starting point is equal to the right to choose, lead to a certain amount of financial support? There is something you have the right to choose, but it should not cost anything for the public, even though the public actually saves money?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e516	Now it's not the economy that's the starting point here. What is the starting point is the parents' right to have the full training of their children. And the Government and the Grand Prix – all the party, as far as I am concerned, except for the Progress Party – meant, and it is the arrangement that was established in the law, that one should have a fundamental right to choose, and that one should be able to get learning material as usual, but that when it applies to funding per. pupil, to public school or private school. That's what the Government's position is. So we think it's best for kids that they get education in school, but we respect parents as well as other people. They're going to get help for teachers, but not funding for teaching beyond that. That's also the big crowd's view.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e523	We're going to the next -- and last -- main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e526	I want to ask the Minister for Fisheries a question. In a hearing note with three weeks' response time, the Minister for Fisheries proposes to introduce a unit quota for all fleet groups with access restrictions in fisheries. The unit quota means that a fisherman can buy up a vessel with quota and then fish on this quota in addition to his own quota. I believe that this could develop negotiable quotas and thus undermine fishermen's rights. In 1994, the Stortinget stipulated that the Unit Allowance Scheme should be assessed by the Stortinget before it could be continued. Now the minister is overrun by Stortinget. At the Norwegian Fisheries Team’s national meeting, the Council of State also said he was opposed to transferable quotas. Why, then, does the Council of State propose this scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e537	Let me just first say that there is no correlation between transferable allowances and the unit allowance scheme. The unit quota system was adopted by the Stortinget in 1994 and was introduced for ring note and trawl in line with the Stortinget decision as a temporary mechanism for testing the scheme in Norway. However, it was a long time before the scheme was established, after negotiations with fishermen’s organisations on the content of the scheme. Let me just stress that it is fully possible in a unit quota system to lay down a regulation that takes account of all the fisheries and district policy considerations that you want to pursue. This is particularly evident in the unit allowance scheme legislation, which has taken particular account of the fact that the North Norwegian ring emergency environment is very thin, and has been introduced to ensure that the transfer of quotas from North Norway to South Norway is not profitable, while full settlement and profitability are to be achieved by transferring quotas from South Norway to North Norway. Don't say that. It is not that a unit quota system releases everything freely, and that you can buy up a vessel and implement the allowances in existing vessels or the vessels you wish. The unit quota system will be implemented for each group with the current regulation and a regulation will be put in place to meet both the fisheries policy and the regional policy objectives for the fishing industry. In the case of the note that is out of consultation, the reason for the shortened consultation period is that we want to continue on a permanent basis the unit quota system for note and beam, which is currently a testing scheme, from 1 January next year, when the legal framework expires. In line with what has been said in the Storting report, we also want to implement a unit quota system for the conventional seagoing fleet. That is the background to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e548	This is an important part of a number of rights that fishermen have worked on over time, and it is important to discuss how we should further shape our fisheries policy. That's also why I'm reacting to the Minister being so busy. Why can't we wait for the strategy message that Stortinget has for treatment? Is it perhaps included in this that if it were to lead to negotiable quotas, does the Minister for Fisheries have other measures that he wants to take?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e553	Let me again stress that the proposal that we have consulted, which will be promoted for Stortingen in a separate proposition, will not lead to negotiable quotas. Let's just underline it and agree on it. This is about the introduction of unit quotas. In the notification contained in the Storting, unit allowances have been evaluated and evaluated and the Stortinge will be able to process it independently in the context of the notification. We want to promote a proposition that allows the Magnificent Sea to decide whether to continue the unit quota system on a permanent basis from 1 January next year. The proposal will be for treatment in Stortinget, hopefully at the same time as the Stortinget has been notified for treatment. It is the Storting that will be able to decide on a free basis whether to continue the scheme. Now the Ministry of Fisheries and the Government are going to decide what the content of the bill will be, after we have received the hearing opinions and see what they mean.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e560	Then the time for the oral question procedure is over, and we go over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e565	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Grethe G. Fossum to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, has been withdrawn. Question 19, from the representative Sylvia Brustad to the Minister of Labour and Administration, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 20, from the representative of Mr Terje Knudsen to the Minister for Transport, lapses because the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e581	‘The Ministry of Child and Family Affairs has found a method of calculation for days of consensual association to eliminate ‘difference’ as to whether or not care has been shared. They have done this by moving the limit of shared care from 4 to 5 months, in addition they have removed some of the actual right of consensual association to guarantee that consensual parents come below the limit. Is this in line with the desire of the Council of State that fathers should give more to their children, and is there a desire for such a biased distribution of the economic aspects of coercive care for children?"
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e588	I would like to inform you that the striking difference between shared housing, i.e. past shared care, and extended association is not about time, but about who is going to decide matters in everyday life. In the context of the latest changes in Kinderelova, the Department made it clear what was meant by these upheavals. It was in Ot.prp. No 56 for 1996-97 p. 53 and accompanying. In the case of extended association, which may involve more than half of the time, the child has a firm hold on one of the parents. The child is entitled to make major daily decisions for the child. If parents have agreed to share housing for the child, parents take larger daily decisions together. The birth grant, or contribution, which is called bookkeeping, is today to be calculated on the basis of discretion if parents have shared the actual care of the child/children, and is thus the only rule in today’s economic sense. The exception rule does not distinguish between shared housing and extended association. The clarification of the bypass shared care in the regulation on the determination and modification of the birth rate was recommended in Ot. pp. No 36 for 1991-92. The limit of five months was due to the fact that a conflict would arise over the issue of whether or not the care was shared. In this context, the Ministry took note of the views of the hearing authorities. Several of the hearing aids feared that if the limit was set too low, many would fall into the scope of the regulation. This could lead to conflicts that might go beyond the children. Before initialising the handle split care was included in the birth code, there was no fixed limit. The decision-making body had to decide, on the basis of an overall assessment, whether there was a lack of shared care. Extended companionship did not affect the determination of the child's voice. In this context, the Department of Ot. pp. No 44 for 1987-88 that care was not normally shared if the duration did not rise for four months or more in the year. It is, I suppose, this representative who believes when he says that the border was moved in 1992. I'm currently working on changes to the obstetrics system. In this context, it is a goal to call for ongoing care from both parents. Expenses shall be shared between parents according to their financial ability as fair and reasonable as possible. I would therefore like to address the question of association when determining the birth rate for parents with less involvement than under the rules today. We're doing this because we're concerned that the fathers are going to do more for their children.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e604	The point is that in a situation where we have two contributory fathers who have similar community agreements for their children, one has to pay full contributions, while the other, who have shared or shared care, does not. So an extra day with the kids can be ten thousand dollars for one contributor. The magic limit is at five months, which in the contribution system means 152.5 days. In this case, care is considered to be shared and mutual contribution obligations are triggered. Experience has now shown that the individual case handler in the social security system is raining half-and-a-half days of concurrence in such a way that the contributor is constantly below this limit. Does not the Council of State consider this to be a denial of the essential care provided by cohabitation parents for their children?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e609	Whether it's a negation or not, I'm not going to say anything about it, but what's quite clear is that the rules as they are today are ripe for change. One of the things that must be the intention of the rules is to encourage both parents to be more together with their children, and not to have such a "magic" limit that we have in the legislation today, in order to calculate how much one should pay. This may help you to avoid speculating calculations to make full use of the system. If we make new rules, I don't think this will be trouble-free in the future either. We know that parents themselves can enter into agreements, and I hope that as many as possible actually set up an agreement that is for the children's best. Unfortunately, there are usually two adults who are in conflict with each other, who are trying to get the best possible out of themselves, and who have not always the best children in mind when they are trying to figure out how much they should help. These things, along with a code that's too old-fashioned, we'll look at, so that we get more fairer rules for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e616	Of course, I share the opinion of the Council of State that we never get there that this would be trouble-free. I am also fully aware that this Council of States, like several governments before her, has plans and is working on reviewing the contribution scheme, etc. and aims to present a proposition in this case — in the autumn of 1999. But I must be allowed to say that the training in this case has taken place over a very long time and leads to a major care failure for several thousand children every day. Does not the Council of State see that this must be done vigorously? Or is it simply the fear of the unpleasant reform that makes today's family minister also train the case?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e621	I'm not going to take responsibility for what former government councils have done. But I have said to the representative before – and I can repeat it: this is a very important matter that we work with in the department. But the representative knows as well as I do that such legislative proposals should be heard, and we have temptations to hold. That's why this takes time. But to me, there is absolutely no reason why I should try to practice this because it becomes uncomfortable to put it forward. I actually mean that it needs to, and I want to make it as fast as possible. But what's important is also to get the different parties to talk, so that this becomes a scheme that actually makes the best for those who are involved in it. Previous suggestions, which one has sent out on the phone, have received a good deal of criticism for. I want to try to take in some of the criticism that has come, when we are now sending out new suggestions on the phone. I don't think it's possible to make a suggestion that just wants to get away with it. The same thing happens in this case, but it has nothing to do with exercise or cowardice; it has to do with thorough preparation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e629	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘If you follow the Evening Post on 26 September 1998, you will reach Norwegian business on course to learn how to attract your children’s purchasing power. More and more people see a great potential in the smallest consumers. What will the Council of State do to prevent direct targeting of children in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e638	The question of children and advertising has been very much updated in recent times, not least because of the look-up in the Evening Post on 26 September of this year and the seminar to be held at the beginning of November under the name ‘KIDS – Can you afford to ignore them?’. First, I would like to mention that the marketing law has a prohibition against marketing in contravention of good marketing practice. This rule takes, among other things, The aim is to protect children and young people against the exploitation of their missing ruins. The Broadcasting Act prohibits the advertising of children on radio or television. The Broadcasting Act also prohibits the sending of advertisements 10 minutes before and after a children's programme. I am very concerned about and concerned about the commercial pressure that children and young people are being subjected to. Internet e.g. there is a lot of advertising directed at children. Often he is hidden as a game or other activity that appeals to the children. In general, I think I see a negative trend in recent years. When it comes to developing children to so-called good consumers, parents are today under heavy pressure from an ongoing marketing industry. The previously mentioned conference, "KIDS", is a clear sign that the marketing pressure against children is increasing and becoming more aggressive. In the article in the evening post, it was said clearly from the marketing team that they believe that there is no longer any reason to protect children from advertising, as one so far has done in Norway. People from my department will be present at the conference, and of course we will also follow this development carefully in other ways. When children from an early age are subjected to massive, commercial influence and come home with a desire to buy both one and the other, whether it is due to the influence of jamming, advertising catalogues or other, parents demand that they be alert with regard to the type of holding they should give their children. Without pressure, it will be parents who make the decision and who are responsible for saying yes or no. The impact of jamming is also great. That's why I think it's also important that parents play on teams, e.g. with other parents in kindergarten or the community. The government is preparing a message for the Stortningen on consumer policy, which we aim to present to the Stortningen to spring. In this message source and advertisement will be an important theme. There is no simple answer to how we should deal with the increasing commercial pressure on children and young people. In the message, we will sketch different actions and invite you to a discussion about the balance between protecting children and empowering them, so that they can choose for themselves. As Minister for Children, I believe that a great deal of attention should be paid in this area and that childhood should be protected to a certain extent from ongoing marketing. I can also mention that reform 97 has introduced user teaching from other class steps in the basic school. Advertising and impact is one of the themes that will be included there. Personally, I believe that training and raising awareness of children and young people when it comes to how to deal with advertising or other promotions is very important, as well as having a good and well-functioning code. I would also like to mention that children, advertising and the Internet are the subject of an appointment that is now being carried out by the Nordic Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e653	I thank you for an appropriate answer. The background to my question is that the business community no longer seems to screen Norwegian children against active marketing and advertising. Until then, Norwegian children’s purchasing power, including through parental influence, is too great. The business community also knows that parents here are an easy trade. In a short time, the European Business Centre will arrange the course in question, and these are Norwegian commercial coins. The project leader for this course believes that the time has come to remove the skyscrapers in Norway as well. Borna should be made a fighter for influence and market share. So here's a potential that hasn't been exploited yet. Will the Council of State develop a regulatory framework specifically to address these issues?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e664	As I mentioned in my answer, we all have a code that is relatively strict in this area. We would also like to address different measures in the context of the Consumer Notice to counter the forces that have been set in motion. The conference, which was attended by both Aarrestad and I, turns to consumers from 0 to 13 years old. So they're going to go all the way down to the 0-year-olds when they're going to start setting up their marketing strategy. They also say in the context of the conference they will have, that they should have some ethics on the agenda, perhaps in order for the offer to look something better than what it does for us who are reading this now. I think the best tool we have to build up children is to raise awareness of both them and parents, and that we use both the school, the nursery and the community to help build them up. We will also look at any changes in the law, or the enforcement of the law, so that we can protect ourselves as far as we can. I have no illusion that we are able to screen ourselves completely from this, but at least we will see what we have of the tools to go as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e673	There is no doubt that advertising in its character promotes certain values, especially commercial rather than other values. Now it's the children's commercial value it's about. So in the course mentioned earlier, professionals at a high level must meet to catch their children's interest and find out how to create lifelong customer relationships through branding towards children. The course should also teach business effective techniques in market research with children. We know that the marketing laws and the rules applicable to TV advertising provide some protection, which is also mentioned in the previous answer. But does the Council of State think that this is enough now in these active times in this area, and will the Council of State follow this up in a wider context?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e680	I do not know if I can give any more supplementary answers than I have already given. We're going to review this in relation to the law, and I want, as I also said in my first answer, to send some of my people as participants at that conference to listen and learn, perhaps in the way of seeing what can be used as counter-power against what is given by information at this conference. I also believe that if people around us react and share in saying that we don't want this, it also helps to influence those who are going to market different products. As the representative Aarrestad was now involved, commercial values are largely related to marketing. There I think we need to draw all the good forces, and then I will do what I can in relation to both the law and the message that I have said we will come with.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e696	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e702	«Raufoss ASA is merging these days with Celsius AB in Sweden and Patria Industrier Oy in Finland to the company Nammo. The new company will become a significant player in the production and sale of missiles, handgun ammunition, artillery and panserver. Does the Council of State believe that in the future the Norwegian authorities will have as good control of arms sales as we have today and, if the merger is finally approved, how does the Council of State assess the possible deflagration of parts of the production of such a merger?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e709	Raufoss ASA, Swedish Celsius AB and Finnish Patria Industrier Oy have agreed to form a joint ammunition company called Nammo AS. This becomes a Norwegian limited liability company with its head office at Raufoss. Nammo owns 45 pst. of Raufoss and 27,5 pst. each of Celsius and Patria. The structure of the company includes the holding company Nammo AS, and during its ammunition activities, Nammo Raufoss AS in Norway, Nammo Lapua Oy in Finland and Nammo Liab in Sweden. The State’s holding will not change in this way, and the State will still hold 50.27 pst. of the shares in Raufoss ASA. So this is not a merger between Raufoss ASA, Celsius and Patria. The creation of a joint owned Nordic ammunition company, Nammo AS, is an example of the wide-ranging development in European and international contexts towards increased cross-border cooperation and integration in the development and production of defence equipment. This development is mentioned in St.meld. No 43 for 1997-98 on exports of defence equipment from Norway in 1997. The Ministry of Defence considers the establishment to be in line with the national strategy for the Norwegian defence and defence-related industry promoted by the Stortinget through St. prp. No 59 for 1997-98. The creation of Nammo AS will increase competitiveness and is in line with ambitions for increased Nordic defence cooperation. The Norwegian State owns 50.27 pst. of the shares in Raufoss ASA. This means that the state must be regarded as a shareholder equal to other private shareholders. It has been established in the case of changing governments that the State's interests in a limited liability company in which the State is a shareholder with private shareholders are exercised in accordance with the general provisions of the Share Act, i.e. by means of participation and voting in the general meeting. Issues relating to the organisation of activities, including the establishment of strategic alliances and participation in new companies, will normally be business matters falling within the company's board of directors and, where appropriate, the business meeting. The establishment of Nammo AS has been dealt with by the works council in Raufoss ASA and approved in decisions taken at its meeting on 11 August 1998. It has therefore not been dealt with by the General Assembly of Raufoss ASA. The management of Nammo AS states that there are no concrete plans for the relocation of production, but the establishment of the company will allow for a rational exchange of products between the divisions. It is important to distinguish between the role of the Ministry as the manager of the State's participations in public limited liability companies and the role of the departments in the administration. An example of this is the relationship with the arms export rules, as mentioned in St.prp. No 85 for 1989-90 on the partial privatisation and listing of Raufoss A/S, as it was called. Its name is, among other things,\t\t You can change the ‘A counter-representation has linked to having private shareholders in the defence industry. However, it must be borne in mind in this respect that the State does not control exports of weapons and ammunition, etc. as a shareholder. This verification is carried out on the basis of its own law and is governed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.’ The three subsidiaries of the holding company Nammo AS – Nammo Raufoss, Nammo Liab in Sweden and Nammo Lapua in Finland will be separate legal entities. They will individually be subject to national law, including export control. National legislation and legislation will be applied to exports of the products produced in each country. In other words, products manufactured in Norway will as before be subject to Norwegian export control. Export controls are carried out on the basis of the Act of 18 December 1987 No. 93 on control of exports of strategic goods, services and technology, etc. – with related regulations and guidelines for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to examine applications for arms exports.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e731	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. He says it's not a merger between these three companies, but the companies themselves believe that this is a merger, which they have also said through press releases and presentation material about the new Nammo. They clearly say that they want a unified company. The situation for Nammo is that Raufoss gets 45 pst. and the two foreign companies 55 pst. I find it alarming that the Council of State approves such an establishment and start-up of a merger process like this without the Stortinget being informed. These are the state's ownership of the defence industry, where defence and security policy issues must be included, and where the Storting should be oriented. The Minister of Economic Affairs says that he has complied with the general provisions of the Share Act, but this is not an ordinary business. I would like to ask the Council of State whether he has at all assessed whether such a briefing should have been given before he approved the launch of a merger process that clearly intends to transfer the majority of the defence division to foreign hands.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e742	It is important to stress what I also said in my answer, that this is no merger between the limited company Raufoss ASA and two other companies. On the other hand, Raufoss ASA has established a separate subsidiary within the group, which in those days is again merged with similar subsidiaries of a Swedish and a Finnish company. Raufoss ASA still has 50.27 pst. state ownership. As I said in the answer, this has been done in such a way as it should, and as the Storting regulates the time when partial privatisation and stock exchange listing of Raufoss A/S are being treated. The decision is taken by the board of directors and the business meeting, and has not been the subject of proceedings by the general meeting, in which the State exercises its ownership. Approval – in so far as the issue of authorisation is to be withdrawn here – will be linked to the treatment under the acquisition law for the fact that the subsidiary Nammo has now been merged with two companies, a Swedish and a Finnish. That treatment is now beginning in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e747	The size has previously established clear restrictions in relation to the fact that the control of military production must not be weakened as a result of the purchase of shares from private and foreign interests. Although this is part of Raufoss ASA, it's still part of and a change in the structure we have today. The size has also established clear restrictions on the ownership of foreign companies in Raufoss ASA under the concession provisions relating to a limit of up to one-fifth for individual shareholders and one-third for total shareholders. The final approval of the acquisition of holdings by Celsius and Patria clearly exceeds one third in total. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether he intends to continue this merger process by granting the final approval under the acquisition law without bringing the matter to the attention of Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e756	Again, I would like to stress – as I also said in my main reply – that this is a question that the Stortinget had already foreseen, as it facilitated the partial privatisation and listing of Raufoss in 1989-90, because there was just a decisive emphasis on the clear separation of ownership and shareholder roles from the exercise of political considerations relating to arms export control. It said the Stortinget directly, pointing out that a law of its own will govern it. In the case of processing under the acquisition law, the competence of it is granted to the ministry. That treatment has not started, and it would be totally wrong for me to advance it. The application shall be submitted four weeks after the company has been formed and is expected to be sent to the department this week. Then the treatment will begin, and the three-week period that the acquisition law regulates will start to run on the day that we believe the application is complete and all the strategic conditions around the company have been brought to the department.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e766	I will ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: «Asiders ASA manages large areas and properties of the Church community, and as part of obtaining income, has increased the fasting charges for some of its plots by more than 1000 pst. Expenditure is particularly severe for small and medium-sized enterprises and may threaten the existence of some enterprises. The State has the principal share item in the South Warrants ASA. Does the Council of State see any concern about the increase in the fixation fee which has taken place here?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e775	As part of the ongoing winding-up work, the sale of plant and assets, including land and buildings, has started well. However, a good deal remains before work on the sale of assets has been completed. Southern legumes own and manage significant plots both in the centre of the Church and in the area. These areas have been fixed away, partly for residential purposes and partly for commercial purposes, etc. Southern shipping companies have recently reported that for various reasons the company has for many years held a very low fixed fee on its land. In the autumn of 1997, all landowners received offers from Southvaranger to buy the plots they rented. In total it was about approx. 1 200 residential areas and approx. 30 nutrient plots. About 450 plotters have chosen to enter into a purchase agreement. For the remaining areas to be rented out, the company has found it necessary and appropriate to seek to harmonise the fixation fees at the level of the municipality of South Varanger for similar housing and commercial premises. In view of the fact that Sydvaranger is organised as a limited liability company, the management and administration of the company are obliged to pay attention to commercial behaviour in its premises. This is the result of the Share Act. The question of the level of the fixed charges for the land occupied by Southvarganger is a matter for the management and administration of the company. These are private-law matters, covered by land consolidation contracts, in which the Ministry has neither the authority nor the authority to intervene. The legal framework for the conditions we are talking about here can be found in the Law on Landfills and related regulations. In addition, contractual and company law conditions could be included. I assume that the upsizing of the fastening charges on the plots of Southvaranger's plots is done in full compliance with the applicable laws and regulations. Based on information from the company, I have no reason to believe that this would not be the case. In this context, it can be mentioned that the company is now making some minor adjustments to its original regulatory framework so that the legal basis for the regulation cannot be called into question. On this basis, I cannot see that for the state that owns it, there is a basis for objecting to the adjustment of the fixation fee on the land area of Sydvaranger that is now taking place. However, I would like to stress that my position in this case is that the company should facilitate the sale of as many of the properties as possible without undue delay. South canals are in a phase of liquidation and therefore the aim is to sell all the assets. The company also informs us that the offer to the landowners to buy the land they currently rent is still available.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e788	I will be quoted from the head of South Varanger Avis on 5 September with the title «A Tragic farce». It says: ‘Sydvaranger Director Ragnar Østby rejects in today’s newspaper that the company needs to consult the Ministry of Economic Affairs when major decisions are to be taken. The back cover needed by the holding lies in Stortingsproposition 62, which, according to the same East Town, only mentions the closure of the ore-based establishment and not the closure of the company as such.» I would like to ask the Minister of Industry two questions in support of what I have said here: Does the Minister of Industry agree that the company does not need to consult the Ministry of Industry with regard to its activities? And: Does the Minister of Industry here agree with Eastby that one is not in a phase of liquidation, because it was only the ore-based business that was to be closed?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e798	The main question concerned the bonding of land, while these are issues relating to the winding-up issues in the South Warehouses in their general scope. It's probably a bit on the edge of the question, but I'd like to answer them anyway. The basis for this treatment is the Stortinget's decision that the company should be wound up. More precisely, Stortinget has said that the company’s ore operations should be discontinued and its ownership discontinued. With 87 pst. ownership means, in substance, the winding-up of the company and it has to do with it. The government and the Minister of Industry have no reason to believe that the company does not comply with such an objective, and the company is well-informed about the liquidation to take place. That it takes a little longer than what was taken into account when the Stortinget made its decision is due to various reasons that are well known in Stortinget. It had, among other things, to deal with issues related to further ore operation in private, as we know is further investigated, and some other issues, such as: problems with the sale of the power plant belonging to it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e805	I would like to thank the Minister of Industry for his answer, in particular his clarification that the company should be wound up. When the Council of State has previously been so concerned with the small and medium-sized enterprises and he now says that the fees involved here are just about adjusting up to a municipal level, I will, however, finally ask the Minister of Industry: does he not see the concern that an increase in the fixation fee is partly due to over 1 000 pst, which is mentioned here, and that it is now actually like a number of companies in South Varanger now describe, namely that this is such a big problem that they are not at risk of continuing to operate? Does not the Minister of Economic Affairs see the concerns in this regard in relation to industrial activity in South Varanger?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e812	I would like to stress that it is the listed company Sydvaranger ASA's responsibility to realise these values in such a way that both the major shareholder, the state, and the small private shareholders, who are many, get the most out of their values. The state has said that these values by the state should be returned to the South Varanger community. Under the provisions of the Share Act, it is not possible to realise these values according to their market value. The company has informed me that today there are questions about getting the real values of the many plots. It's like 1,000 pst. Sounds a lot, but I learned that after all, percentages don't say that much before a person sees what basis the percentages are calculated on. In any case, I know that in the case of the ordinary residential spaces this is about, it is about very manageable sizes – sales values on a target plot of 10 000-15 000 kroner, etc. after adjustment. The company's wish is that the tenants actually buy their land. That's the best way to liquidate this.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e822	I have the following questions for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘The draft regulation on the establishment test for the administrators of serving sites imposes unnecessary costs on each municipality. Each municipality must hold a test, issue a diploma and establish an establishment register. If IT-based solutions had been chosen, the tests could have been developed centrally, the responses read mechanically and the register made nationwide. Will the Council of State reverse the draft so that IT solutions can be implemented, the register becomes more usable and municipalities are saved for increased expenditure and a significant red tape?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e831	The rules on the inaugural test are part of the new serving law that came into force this year. We've been working to find a system for taking this sample that can meet different requirements. First of all, it is important that the establishment test be carried out in such a way that it is as accessible as possible. The scheme must not constitute an undue obstacle to the establishment of those who are required to operate a restaurant. This is one of the main reasons why I have proposed to assign responsibility for the implementation to the municipalities, which in any case the applicants have to deal with in the establishment. Furthermore, costs have to be kept down and the testing system has to be put in place quickly. The Ministry has assessed whether instead of a paper-based multi-choice test, similar to the theoretical knowledge part of the driving test, an IT-based solution should be chosen. In the event of an IT-based trial, new work would be on the way, and the development of IT is currently at different levels both in the municipalities and among the people most. I am therefore in doubt about such a arrangement at this point in time would be simplifying for all. However, I have not left the idea of getting an IT-based solution in the short term. The Ministry will follow the situation in the municipalities and continue working with future solutions that are as simple and rational as possible. An IT solution that the representative mentions will, when it is possible to implement, provide a more modern system and could subsequently also be resource-saving.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e840	I thank the Minister for the answer. I actually perceive the answer so that the minister is open to starting IT-based solutions as soon as this can be practically possible. I am pleased, and I hope the Minister will bring this with him in the future, so that it will not be forgotten. In this case, I'll remind the Minister on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e845	I would like to stress that I believe that both the representative and I share a very common view that this test should not be unnecessary to prevent the establishment we might have in this area – rather, on the contrary, contribute to ensuring the quality we need. And I can assure the representative that we are continually following up on this, so that those considerations are taken care of and this is done in the most flexible and simple way possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e853	I have a question for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: «The Maritime Directorate has introduced, by Circular F23/92 of 18 November 1992, an amendment to the authorisation of seafarers' doctors to draw up health declarations for workers on ships. Authorisation of doctors is generally not under the Directorate for Maritime Affairs but under the Directorate for Health. Can the Council of State explain what professional basis the Directorate of Maritime Administration has to authorise/take from a medical profession as a seafarer’s doctor?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e862	The starting point for approving a seafarer’s doctor in Norway is that he is authorised as a doctor by Norwegian health authorities. In accordance with the third paragraph of Section 26 of the Maritime Act and the Regulation of 3 February 1986, the Directorate for Maritime Administration has been given authority to authorise doctors to carry out medical examinations of workers on ships – so-called medics. The background to this system is that it has been considered necessary to have an approval system which ensures that seafarers acquire specific competence in the field of marine medicine. This is ensured by requiring the doctor to demonstrate that he is aware of the health conditions of workers on ships. Furthermore, a sufficient number of mariners must be examined by the physician in order to maintain and further develop their maritime medical competence. The maritime directorate’s understanding of maritime matters provides professional grounds for issuing or withdrawing medical authorization as a seafarer’s doctor. The Maritime Directorate has an overview of the knowledge of maritime conditions in which these doctors must be willing to intervene. The doctors must keep up-to-date with these conditions in order to make a sound assessment of the suitability of seafarers and fishermen for service on board. Separate courses are arranged for seamen’s doctors. The Maritime Directorate is therefore the public body which has the broadest professional basis for authorising a seafarer’s doctor.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e869	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that the Maritime Directorate has got the legal basis in place to be able to authorise, but there is still a question: What legal basis do they have to obtain from a doctor an authorization they have had for up to 20 years? This may be because the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs has to deal with a minimum of doctors and that they, for example: Does 100 take as an appropriate number for administrative purposes? Do they totally disregard the consequences this has for people, who have to travel long distances to get to a doctor whom the Directorate of Maritime Affairs has authorized, when there is still a doctor who has the training needed to do the necessary examination?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e876	My answer was on how these rules are practised and managed on a general basis. The representative Bastesen well explained in his supplementary question that there were other issues that could lie behind a single matter that I do not know about, and that of course I cannot relate to from the Stortings pulpit. However, it is important to stress that these rules are managed by the Maritime Directorate and that they are based on an assessment of the individual physician’s suitability. The underlying criterion must be the non-exhaustive criterion.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e883	This is not a matter of a simple matter. In earlier times we had a number of mariners along the coast, and when the Maritime Directorate with a pennetræk should have the right to deprive a doctor of the qualifications he has according to his education, it is well done! No, the case is that the number of doctors to which the directorate is to deal is to be minimized for purely administrative reasons and not for the benefit of the users.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e888	It is not that easy to relate to such claims. It is such that in the Maritime Directorate, as I have said, they relate to the laws and regulations that are laid down for them in this field, and they are to assess the suitability of the individual seafarer according to the rules that apply. Other conditions shall not be decisive.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e896	I will ask this question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘The civil war in Congo threatens to destabilise large parts of the African continent. Namibia and Zimbabwe have sent regular troops in spite of the fact that these countries have no security interests in the Congo. They are now threatening to further intensify their warfare. What will Norway do to pressure Namibia and Zimbabwe to withdraw from the Congo and find a peaceful solution to the conflict?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e905	The government is deeply concerned about the development of the Democratic Republic of Congo and the regional repercussions of the conflict. The military involvement of a number of neighbouring Congo countries is particularly alarming. The recent announcements of a military escalation in the East Congo and the unsuccessful negotiations of the recent Lusaka Summit have further exacerbated this situation. The picture is inconclusive and characterised by a lack of independent information. From the Norwegian side, we have therefore found it difficult to draw a clear distinction between the different parties' reasons for their military involvement. We have underlined to both the Southern African Cooperation Organisation (SADC) and the Secretary-General of the OAU, as well as in bilateral contacts, the need to seek a political and diplomatic solution to the conflict. In our view, the regional mediation efforts under the auspices of SADC and the African Unit Organisation will be crucial to finding a political solution. Norway has offered concrete support to the OAU in this context. We have also expressed our willingness to contribute financially at a later stage to a possible regional conference for the countries around the Great Lakes of Africa where all parties to the conflict are involved. As is well known, over several years Norway has contributed to the strengthening of African peacekeeping and conflict prevention capabilities, including: through support for the OAU conflict resolution mechanism and for the Norwegian-funded training programme ‘Training for Peace’ within the SADC region. The conflict we are facing today in Africa shows the need for increased investment in this area. The government will work actively to this end in contact with other related countries. On the Norwegian side, we are also concerned that the UN must play a more central role in achieving a truce and negotiations between the parties to the conflict. We therefore welcome the fact that the Security Council of 22 October this year called for immediate ceasefire, the withdrawal of all troops and the rejection of actions that could lead to the escalation of the conflict. In the current situation, we find it right to give priority to positive instruments to promote a process towards a political solution. As I mentioned in a letter to the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee on 7 July. At the same time, however, in discussions with countries receiving Norwegian assistance, we will continue to stress that military engagement outside the country’s own borders could have consequences for the device and level of Norwegian assistance. From the Norwegian side, we will also underline the importance of military detention and withdrawal of all foreign forces from the Democratic Republic of Congo, thereby helping to facilitate the conditions for a ceasefire and a negotiated solution between the parties. This must apply to all parties and include, inter alia: held in meetings with Ugandan authorities as late as last week and will be at the heart of forthcoming discussions with Zimbabwe.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e928	I also address this question because I feel personal guilt and responsibility. During the Rwandan genocide in 1994, the word Rwanda was not mentioned at all in the Stortinget. You're about to have a war in Africa that is probably much more bloody than the one we have in Kosovo and that has the potential to destabilise the entire African continent. For once I am not satisfied with the answer given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I do not think it is acceptable to equate the different parties to this conflict. President Kabila bears a great responsibility for not having started a national reconciliation when he was deployed a year ago, but above all, Zimbabwe's position is quite peculiar. There's two reasons for that. Zimbabwe has no legitimate security interests in the Congo, as Uganda and Rwanda must be said to have, and it now appears that President Mugabe is the main obstacle to finding a peaceful solution to the conflict. I would like to ask whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs will support the Mandela peace initiative and put a special pressure on Zimbabwe to help find a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e935	Of course, I am sorry that the representative Solheim is not satisfied with my answer. I think it might be easy already to decide in the conflict and say in a way that some of those who have intervened have legitimate security interests and others do not. From our point of view, we have no difficulty in seeing both the problems of the conflict in the Congo and the major consequences it has. That is why I fully agree with the representative of Solheim that this is something we must be concerned about, and I am pleased that this is a question that is raised in Stortinget. At the same time, the situation is still unclear, but it is so transparent that I would like to support the initiative of President Mandela. We have done that from the Norwegian side. We've worked closely with the South Africans. What is the problem, is enough that South Africa today, due to its own invasion of Lesotho, has lost some of its credibility in the region. That's why South Africa is no longer so strong, and that's why we've been concerned that the OAU and the UN have to get on the road here.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e940	There is a fundamental difference in the foreign interference in progress. It is not to be understood that everything Uganda and Rwanda do is to be accepted, but these are countries bordering the Congo, and there have been armed invasions on both Ugandan and Rwandan territory from Congo, among others. by the Hutu extremists, who stood for the greatest genocide in modern times. The fact that Rwanda and Uganda find it legitimate to stop this must be accepted. The situation is particularly serious because President Kabila's rhetoric is clearly racist. He plays consistently on the tutsi concept in his propaganda. One message after another says that the Hutu gangs that carried out the genocide in Rwanda in 1994 are being armed. Zimbabwe, on the other hand, is hundreds of miles away from Congo, and it seems that Mugabe's main intention here is economic self-interest. A number of economic agreements between Zimbabwe and the Congo are now being notified, on the basis of the military aid granted. I would therefore like to repeat the question of whether there should be no special pressure on Zimbabwe for restraint in this conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e945	I don't think the representative Solheim and I are so disagreeable anyway. I think the Solheim representative's analysis of the situation is quite correct. It doesn't make it easy to know how to deal with it. The only thing we can do on the Norwegian side is to use aids alongside the political pressure that we've been using now and that we're still going to use. The question of using aid is a difficult question because it is a means of pressurisation that we really don't like to use. Here we are in contact with both Zimbabwe and other donor countries, precisely to put as much pressure on Zimbabwe as possible. So I don't disagree with Solheim's representative that we should continue and perhaps further increase the pressure on Zimbabwe.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e955	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: "The former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet is arrested in London. Spain has asked him to be handed over, to hold him responsible for the misdemeanours for which he is responsible. The U.S.-supported coup led to the death of many and the disappearance of thousands. Many had to flee the country in order to save their lives, and some of them had to take refuge in Norway. Will the Minister of Foreign Affairs support the Spanish requirement, or will Norway bring an action against the dictator at the International Court of Human Rights in The Hague?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e964	Norway clearly condemns Pinochet’s bloody coup in 1973 and has had a clear view of the subsequent terrorist regime that cost several thousand lives and health. As you will know, Norway was at the forefront of protecting those who were persecuted politically. The arrest of former dictator Augusto Pinochet shows that persons accused of violating international rules on crimes against humanity, genocide, etc. can no longer feel secure against being held responsible for their actions. The Spanish prosecution authority has requested the arrest of Pinochet for extradition purposes in order to challenge precisely such charges before its courts on the grounds that several dozen Spanish citizens were killed or disappeared in Chile under Pinochet’s dictatorship. There can be no doubt that there is Norwegian involvement in criminal prosecution of persons committing such crimes. This includes, inter alia: the background to the strong Norwegian involvement in the establishment of the new permanent international criminal court at the last summer of the Roma Conference and in the establishment of the two tribunals of the former Yugoslavia and of Rwanda. The Spanish Government has not expressed any particular attitude in relation to extradition requests. It has also not expressed a wish for support from other countries. The requirement has been promoted by the Spanish prosecution authority and will be dealt with in accordance with the Council of Europe Convention on Extradition. It will be for the UK courts to decide whether the legal conditions for extradition are in place, and then for the UK authorities to decide whether to comply with the extradition request. With regard to the issue of Norway, I can inform the representative that this is a court that only judges disputes between states. Neither can the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg bring an action against individuals, only against States. Persecution of the type of crime charged by Pinochet is only possible in the national courts or tribunals of Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia after the current international legislation. On the other hand, when the new permanent International Criminal Court enters into force, access to criminal proceedings against persons charged with genocide and crimes against humanity and serious war crimes will be considerably extended. Norway will work actively to ensure that this court comes into operation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e979	I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer. I think it seems that we are agreed on, but it seems that the Foreign Minister has a somewhat low pace. I want to challenge him on a couple of points: We know that in Norway there are many Chilean Northmen who were tortured by Pinochet's regime in its time. They may also want strong reactions from the Norwegian Government. Will the Minister of Foreign Affairs take some initiative in relation to international reactions, for example: in the form of a Nordic reaction, a reaction in relation to the EU – working together to increase the pressure for something to happen? It's the one. What time does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think this international new criminal court will be operational, and what will the Norwegian government do to make this happen as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e988	To take the last part of the question first, I said in my first answer to the representative Langeland that we will work actively to ensure that this court comes into operation as soon as possible. I can't say how fast it can happen, because this has to be ratified by a certain number of countries – how many, I'm not sure. But we saw that in connection with the Antimine Convention, this went faster than we thought, and we want to work to make this happen as quickly as possible. When it comes to taking the initiative, I think you should remember what I tried to say in my first answer, that it is the prosecution authority in Spain that raised this case, and this is a matter that is now before the courts of the United Kingdom. It would not be right for the Norwegian government to intervene in this, but if Norwegian citizens of Chilean origin want to raise this matter, it would be natural to do so in the way of the prosecution. To repeat myself, of course, there is no doubt about the Government's condemnation of Pinochet and his regime, and that we believe that that kind of person should be brought to justice.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e995	Very briefly, I would like the Foreign Minister to make it clear that it is actually possible if, together with Nordic foreign ministers or with EU foreign ministers, he actively says that we will do something about this. I would like to challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs: will he take an initiative to increase the pressure to make progress in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1000	If I understand the representative of Langeland correctly now, the question concerns initiative to advance the International Criminal Court, and then the answer is yes. We have already taken the initiative and will take new initiatives and follow that case up, so that the criminal court can become operational as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1008	I shall be allowed to ask a question to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The founder Bodvar Vetrhus in Selje has developed a proprietary machine that can revolutionise line fishing for the smallest chess fleet. When Vetrohus applied to the Directorate of Fisheries for permission to test the machine, he was refused. The reason is that Vetrhus has not received State aid and that the machine can be a commercial success. Is the rejection in line with the intention of the Government's recent action plan for small enterprises and will the Council of State otherwise ensure that testing permits are granted?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1017	The question referred to a specific case that the Ministry of Fisheries has not yet received and got involved in as a complaint. I will therefore not comment on this matter in more detail. On a general basis, however, I would like to say the following: Fisheries authorities receive a number of applications for such testing of fishing gear and equipment representing major or minor developments in relation to current equipment. There is steady technological development, including in this area. However, it has been a long practice to refer in such cases to the practical testing of newly developed equipment by using vessels already registered in the fishing vessel’s Make Register and with quota rights. If the sea concerned does not have such a vessel and is allowed to participate in the relevant fishing activity, it is possible to seek cooperation with fishermen on practical trials. The last paragraph of Section 2 of the Saltwater Fishing Act, which is invoked in these cases, states that ‘The Directorate of Fisheries may allow scientific studies and practical fishing trials to be carried out without regard to the provisions of or in accordance with this Act’, aims to provide the basis for the public's own studies and trials or experiments in cooperation between public institutions and private parties. The public carries out extensive work both for the purpose of resource studies and tool development. However, no own quotas have been allocated to research. The aim is not, of course, to limit the individual's initiative or the ability to make money even in this part of the fishing industry, nor to prevent private enterprises or creative individuals from testing new technical solutions in the fisheries sector. However, such testing should be carried out within the framework of the concession arrangements, participant limitations and quota regulations applicable to the fishing industry in general, by carrying out tests on a vessel already in the fishery. It will also make the experiment better and more realistic that people who actually fish in this way are involved in the development work.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1028	This answer kind of reminds me of the introduction to the American series X-Files – you don't think so until you see it. That it may be possible! Now I understand that the Directorate of Fisheries has a completely different reason than that of Angelsen, because he started talking about that there were no quotas for them, about participant restrictions, etc. This is a small company that has a boat of 25-26-27 feet, which has to install this machine for testing, which they have spent millions of dollars on, without the help of the public. So Angelsen refers in his reply to the fact that this legal home is intended to apply where the public carries this out, or where it happens in cooperation with private people. So here it's an initiative-rich Westerner who has neither cared about being in cooperation with others nor let the public do this. Is it not possible to allow a small enterprise to do this because of the quota system we have? Then, in fact, a person has to consider devoting a quota to people who use their own forces and their own resources to further develop this society.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1035	Let me just stress that it is not the intention of the department to try to prevent the development of equipment for the fishing fleet. Such development of both equipment and tools has been continuous throughout all years, and in cooperation between fishermen and producers. The Norwegian fishing industry is technologically leading the world in the development of equipment and tools. As I said, we have not been dealt with this matter in the department, and unfortunately I cannot answer specifically the questions raised here regarding this matter. We'll get back to that. But let me just say it so that there is nothing to prevent the use of its own vessel sea unless it is registered in the Merchant Register, but it is then within the rules laid down by the law on recreational fishing, so that the company in question is not completely prevented from using its own ship.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1042	I'm getting more and more surprised. In addition to Bastesen, the undersigned and the Minister for Fisheries have messed up fishing — at least in a certain way. And it has to be known that when you're going to run line fishing, saltwater fishing, and based on the recreational fishing regulations, you can't have any more bait. The ilestone has not even come to the bottom before one has to put the other ilestone – so few hooks are you allowed to fish with. This applies to an enterprise that will develop a product that will enable its fleet to participate in line fishing. Today, there are mostly large vessels involved in autoline systems, etc. Here you have a small machine that is suitable for the fleet's own part of the country. I choose to interpret it in such a way that the plan presented by the Minister of Industry for making things easier for small businesses, even in some way, needs to be implemented in the underlying and co-ordinated departments and directorates. And then my question is, will the Council of State take an initiative towards the Directorate of Fisheries, so that they are more in the real world?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1049	As I initially said, we cannot go to the handling of this matter until it is available in the department. And I think that the Directorate of Fisheries is in the real world, but they have to deal with the legislation and the law that is laid down by the Department and the Magnificence. I've understood it so that there's quotas that this is a question of, among other things. of cod. Now we have too little total quotas in the country, both of cod, hay, siev and herring, so there is a significant reduction in the ability of each fisherman to fish. All allowances, each kilogram, have been allocated to the fishing industry and thus the Directorate has no allowances to allocate in addition to that allocated at the beginning of the year. If we look at some additional allowances for development measures in the future, perhaps for the coming years will be assessed in the light of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1059	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Gilde dish Test station A/S has two R & D concessions in operation. [[GIFAS]] The Directorate for Fisheries has rejected the application for renewal of one concession, inter alia, with a background in the composition of the owner. After conversion and new owners in place, GIFAS is now in a positive development. However, the Fisheries Directorate's decision threatens the whole future of GIFAS and Gildeskaal as R & D centres. Can we now expect the Council of State to take the initiative and secure the future of GIFAS?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1068	Validity dish Test station AS has applied for the approval of the ownership structure and extension of the R & D concession for six years linked to the R & D regulations. The application was rejected by the Directorate-General for Fisheries in the first place, and the complaint is now pending in the Directorate for Fisheries. In the context of the appeal, the Directorate has found it necessary to provide further information on the Gildeskaal Experimental Station and still has to be provided with parts of it. The case is given a high priority, but it is not possible to say anything about it when it is completed in the directorate. The test station has applied for a temporary extension pending a decision in the appeal case. The Directorate has rejected the application and the complaint against the decision has recently been sent to the Ministry of Fisheries for examination. However, I can promise that this matter will be dealt with quickly in the department. The Ministry of Fisheries is essentially the Board of Appeal and will be dealt with if the Directorate of Fisheries maintains its decision. I therefore do not want to take initiative or position on this matter until all the facts are available and the Directorate for Fisheries has closed its proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1077	I would like so much to thank the Council of State for a partly positive response in the sense that he will pursue this matter further and ensure that the department re-examines it with a thorough procedure. I just want to stress that the farming industry is a competence-based industry, and we are not going back so many years in time before our recognised research communities said that it was not possible to grow north of Trändelag. Today, Northern Norway is the second largest farming group and is becoming Norway’s largest, among others. as a result of part of the work of GIFAS and Nordic research. We are now facing new challenges, with new opportunities within new farming species. I hope that the Council of State in further work will add to the goodwill and seek to exploit the possibilities that the Ministry has, so that the experimental and development work at the Gildeskall Experimental Station will be allowed to continue for the benefit of the farming industry not only in Northern Ireland but also in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1086	I agree with the representative that research is very important, and that it is the research that has primarily contributed to bringing Norwegian salmon breeding to the top of the world. In fact, the government has prioritised marine research in the budget under consideration, precisely because of the value creation potential inherent in the development of marine products and the farming industry in particular. At the same time, it is important that the research and development activities carried out have the necessary confidence, and there have therefore been strict requirements for the award of R & D concessions. The R & D Regulation specifies who may apply for a concession for experimental and research purposes. Such concessions have been primarily reserved for research institutions at university level but may be granted to others under special conditions. The R & D Regulation is currently under review, and in this context we will also consider opening up other relevant development projects to meet industry’s future needs.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1096	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The sea conditions in the municipality of Reinfjord in Kvänangen have been greatly deteriorated following the failure of the coastal works to build a molo. In its Decision of 19 August 1998, the Women’s Presidencies have referred to these disadvantages, and at the same time they have mentioned that the proposed new wave damper appears to have too small a dimension. Is the department now in dialogue with the municipality of Kvänangen on the improvement and plans for the construction of new wave dumps in Reinfjord port?»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1105	The Molo plant in Reinfjord was listed as a new plant and mentioned in the State budget for 1984, and the final plan was presented in the budget for 1987. Due to difficult ground conditions, work was stopped in 1988. Work has been done to date for approx. Five million. kr in Reinfjord, but these investments have not provided any benefit. Getting a minimum solution for a molo project, as originally planned, will require at least 20-22 million. In addition, kr. The Ministry of Fisheries held a meeting on 13 November 1997 with the municipality of Kvänande on port conditions in Reinfjord. The municipality's wish for some form of molo in the Badder was also presented at that meeting. The Coastal Station was then commissioned to investigate the previously submitted proposal for airtemolo both for Reinfjord and for the Badderen. In cooperation with SINTEF, analyses have now been made of the utility, measured in the number of days of use, which can be expected from a floating structure with a width of 3 m and a depth of 0,6 m for both locations. The Coastal Directorate's assessment is that it is unrealistic to build a fixed molo, and that a liquid wave absorber will also not provide an adequate solution for neither Reinfjord nor the Badderen. The Ministry of Fisheries adheres to the assessment of the Coastal Directorate. In a letter to the Municipality of Kvänangen of 15 July 1998, we drew attention to the fact that, on this basis, and with particular emphasis on the safety aspects, the State could not be the builder and owner of such a facility. However, if the municipality would have such a solution, the State could contribute to its financing as a cross-cutting grant project. 1064, heading 60. It has been suggested to the Municipality of Kvänan that the State will be able to contribute up to 75 pst. grants for one of those installations. The price estimate for such a airtemolo is 4-6 million. kr. In its decision of 19 August this year, the female chairmanship has shown that the proposed damper appears to have too small a dimension. In this context, however, it must be pointed out, as has also been done in our letter of 15 July of this year, that a wave damper of larger dimensions will not significantly improve conditions. Therefore, it does not seem appropriate to reconsider the construction of a major wave damper, as requested by the Presidency of Kvänangen. The Ministry will, of course, follow up the case further with a view to reaching a solution that is best suited to the Female within a sound financial framework.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1118	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The reason why I found it necessary to ask this question is the signals contained in the decision in the Kvänangen Presidency to which the Council of State referred, where it is, among other things. on the part of the municipality is threatened with legal proceedings against the State. It tells me that the dialogue is not good between the department and the municipality, and it makes me worried, really, on behalf of both parties. All experience with such projects requires listening to the local population. In particular, the seafarers are to be consulted locally, as they are usually best aware of all the circumstances surrounding such decisions. I do not feel well with the answer I received from the Council of State. I think it weakens the possibility of this district to continue developing as a fishing area. I would therefore ask the Council of State to respond to what kind of progress he sees in this cooperation with the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1127	As I said in my first answer, the construction of a molo in Reinfjord was stopped already in 1988 because it was then found that it was completely impossible to build a molo in that area. On that basis, a so-called wave reduction solution was then assessed in collaboration with the municipality. As I have explained, it turned out that a wave damper solution would not be satisfactory. And all the factors associated with it make it difficult for the state to be responsible for it, but we will fully support the municipality with the construction of such if the municipality takes responsibility. The Ministry has also put in place measures, which are appropriations in the budget for this year, to clean up, as requested by the municipality, after the construction stopped in 1988. And there is already a contract with a private contractor to do that work on behalf of the state, and it will be implemented on an ongoing basis. Of course, when it comes to continuing dialogue with the municipality, the department is open to it, but we need to get a formal response to our offer to the municipality. Whether there will be legal proceedings – it is, of course, free for anyone to bring a case against the State, including the municipality of Kvänangen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1139	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘High interest rates, currency turmoil, less domestic activity, more paperwork and longer processing time under the new provisions of the Planning and Building Act create uncertainty and lack of performance in the wood loading industry. The uncertainty about the impact of the short-term charge works in the same direction. How will the Council of State restore confidence in the industry, so that one of our main export industries may feel that they are working under foreseeable conditions?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1148	In line with the Stortingen decision in the context of the review of the revised national budget in 1998, the Government proposes that a business cycle tax of 5 pst. investment in new buildings and structures is regulated. The fee will be assessed on an ongoing basis in the light of the economic situation. In recent months, the crown has been subject to significant pressures on the foreign exchange market. This must include, inter alia: are seen in the context of the low oil price and economic problems in Asia, Latin America and Russia, which have weakened important export markets. In order to counteract the fall in the exchange rate, Norway’s Bank has increased the short-term interest rate. The Norwegian three-month money market rate was 7.7 p.m. on 27 October. There were about 3 percentage points above the ECU rate. Until the middle of May this year, the Norwegian money market rate was slightly lower than the ecu rate. Since the middle of October, the crown has strengthened by about 5 pst. against the ecu index. The government has put forward proposals for a tight government budget for 1999, as the situation requires. A tight budget reduces the uncertainty associated with the development of the Norwegian economy and facilitates a normalisation of the krone price and a lower interest rate. I trust that the Storting will adopt a budget that is sufficiently tight, so that interest rates can fall again. It will benefit both the wood and other parts of the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1159	We have two large, almost eternal, resources to exploit in Norway, namely the fish in the sea and the trees growing in the forest. It always turns out that in the case of fish and fishing industry, the interest in Stortinget is very high, but in the case of forestry, it is significantly less interesting. We can see that, for example. purely numerical in today’s Questionnaire as well. The Council of State gives a vague response to the wishes now expressed by the whole forestry industry, including the timber industry, to regain confidence so that they can know what conditions they are working in the longer term. At least indirectly, the economic cycle charge also affects the wood industry. The same is true of low national demand, which is particularly affected by the fear of a new cyclical charge. I would like to ask the Council to consider once again: can he not now send out a signal to a needy industry that the cyclical tax will at least be assessed aside?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1166	It is in the name of the business cycle fee that it is a fee that should work when you have the business cycle that you have had. But as we have both written in the national budget and as I have signaled, among other things. when I presented the state budget three weeks ago, this fee will be continuously assessed according to the economic situation. Everything suggests that lower investments will be made next year, but there is uncertainty about how much lower they will be. But as I said, the fee will be assessed. Regarding domestic demand, I would like to point out that the Government is proposing, for example: to increase the House Bank's framework from DKK 8 billion this year to NOK 9 billion next year. The Government assumes that the activity on the housing market will be slightly larger than it has been with the framework in force in 1998.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1173	The council almost talks as if he is not aware that the time from a business cycle fee starts and until it has effects in such long-term industries as the timber industry and the construction industry, at least for a year, is probably longer. So if you're going to evaluate the situation on an ongoing basis, so that the disaster or the downturn has taken place before the Council of State is willing to consider whether to do something about the short-term cost, yes, it's too late. That's when the disaster has already happened. That is why, once again, I would strongly urge the Government to give a signal that it will disregard the cyclical charge to stimulate domestic demand. So just cards to the question of a tight budget. It is once again one of the uncertainties created because the Government is not willing to signal which side it will choose in economic policy. I can assure the Council of State that if the Government has now decided to cooperate with the Right, there will be no problem with a tight government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1180	At least so far, the biggest problem in the Norwegian economy is that there is too much pressure on the labour market in particular. As I said in my previous answer, we assume that within parts of the economy, e.g. in the case of investment, the pressure will probably decrease, but it's uncertain how much. I would also like to remind you that the short-term tax that the Government is now proposing is a follow-up to the decision of the majority of the population in our – where the Right was also part of the majority – to oblige the Government to impose such a charge. I cannot say more than what I have said, and hope that it will be understood correctly when I say that we will evaluate this business cycle fee continuously. If you get such a sudden fall as the biggest pessimists might imagine when it comes to investment, of course, the possibility of getting something done with the fee will be greater. But for the time being, it will be introduced in line with the large number of orders to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1191	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice: «The daily newspaper of 21 October 1998 states in an article that two Peruvian women have received a work permit despite the lack of legal support for such a permit. Is this correct, and what was the reason for granting such an authorisation?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1200	It is true that the Ministry of Justice has granted work permits to two Peruvian women. The background is that last year the Stortinget sent a proposal from Højres Arild Lund, where the Ministry of Justice was asked to assess whether current practice was too strict in terms of temporary work permits to workers coming from outside the EEA territory. The previous government responded negatively to this enquiry. However, this government wants to look at the question again, because we are interested in an embellishment of today's legislation. The need for such an embellishment is also underlined by the NHO, among others. in meeting with me. Thus, the follow-up work was on the Ministry’s agenda when the application from the two Peruvian children’s peaks was examined. There were several good reasons which spoke to grant the applications, although the decoration of the legislation has not yet been implemented. I state that the decoration in this area will of course apply to all similar applications, not just the two applications in question now. The decision must be seen in this context in the context of the reassessment of a rigid regulatory framework – as part of the Government’s work to bring about a softer foreign policy in the spirit of the Adultåsen Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1207	I thank you for your answer. It is correct that the Stortinget asked for an assessment of the legislation in the previous period, but Stortinget did not say that it would soften. This is a debate that is now taking place in several parties, but where the conclusions have not been drawn. I have to say that the procedure is quite extraordinary and turned down when you pick out a single case and make a decision contrary to the legislation, and then you go into the legislation afterwards in order to possibly get a warrant for what you have actually done. When the Foreign Affairs Act was passed – as well as I do – the Council of State went from a great margin of discretion when it came to work permits, to having clear rights-oriented criteria. The size said that there had to be as clear and specific criteria as possible in the regulations. It is today, and that means that there is no authority within the framework of the law or in the regulations for such a decision. I wonder, when will the changes in the regulations take place, and will you continue to make the same kind of decisions in individual cases without permission?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1217	What it would have been most natural to deal with this application after, was the rules of au pair. It proved not to be useful for these applications. The application concerned two persons who, through several stays abroad, had been responsible for the children of the family and to whom the children and the family were linked. There was an important cultural point here. The applicant was familiar with Peruvian language and culture, and this would help to ensure the children's cross-cultural and bilingual education, which the family considered very important. In this case, the work permit was granted under the second paragraph of Section 8 of the Foreign Affairs Act, and thus not without permission. As far as Stortinget's wish for a less stringent regulation is concerned, we have also received very strong signals from both staging representatives and others that a certain embellishment in relation to the four-sided rules that came was desirable, and we are about to implement this work, and that will of course apply to all applicants.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1224	Here I have to say that the Council of State is moving on very thin ice when she refers to the second paragraph of Section 8 of the Foreign Act, where it says that «strong human interests» can provide exceptions. That paragraph has never been used for ordinary work permits, it has been about giving protection to people, nor has it ever been used in this type of case. It is encouraging to hear that the Council confirms that similar cases will receive the same treatment. Then I just want to ask, what does that mean? Does that mean that everyone else who wants babysitting from another culture will get it? Does this apply to household assistants? Does this mean that enterprises will be able to obtain the same type of approval? What general change has been made to this specific decision? I also hope that the Council of State can confirm that in this case, friendship and knowledge have not had anything to say in relation to the decision, that it is completely irrelevant who is your neighbor, who are your friends, what central politicians get involved in the matter, that there are only factual and relevant assessments that lie behind, so that you can ensure equal treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1233	First, the issue of non-discrimination. This was a rather special case, and after working on this kind of question for some years, it's my impression that this with the connection to a culture and the fact that a family is bicultural and bilingual, it's becoming increasingly important in a multicultural society. With regard to the second paragraph of Section 8, I do not know how it has been used before, but what I know, and what I have supported, is that this is a rule of judgement that the Council of State can use in cases where it is considered right to do so, and that is what was the background to this context. There are some legislation on foreign legislation that almost does not allow for the exercise of discretion. Then we have the opportunity in some contexts, and then it's the Council's assessments that have impact. Of course, friendship and knowledge mean nothing. For myself, I can say that there are no such things at all, but we have had enquiries from a number of teams both in this and similar matters, which we have considered also from a principle point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1245	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘On 2 October 1998, the Government merged the Länsmann Offices in Arna and Åsane and Ulset Police Station. The merger in practice means that the Arna Länsmannskontoret is closed down as an operating office. Does the Council of State consider this to be in line with the view of the Storting on changes in the Senate and the Minister of Justice's own opinions that such aggregation should only take place on a voluntary basis?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1254	The overall objective of Phase 2 of the reorganisation of the police and officers seat, which includes border controls at holding level, has been to improve police preparedness and service by improving the efficiency of the administrative structure in order to release resources for more outbound service. There is a need to take into account the requirements and opportunities arising from developments in population structure, communication, municipal administration and crime, which underpin any merger decision. In kilograms. Res. No 23 for 1998, which includes the merger of the LEN offices in Arna and Åsane and Ulset Police Station, there is a clear premise that a police unit in Arna should continue to be maintained. The merger will facilitate a more flexible service system that will benefit the public in terms of better police preparedness and service. It is misleading to claim that the Länsmannskontoret will be closed as an operating office after the merger. Police preparedness in Arna is being reinforced on the contrary by the fact that at all times of the day it will be officials who are ready to call, either from the place of duty or from the patrol car. The public in Arna is given increased access to the police and officers services that require presence in the office by extending the opening time of the unit in Arna. The local hearing body in such cases is the City Council. The Presidency took a decision on the matter in September 1995 and requested that Arna retain a unit. In the merger is embedded that Arna retains a position and actually gets a better police coverage than before. Arna was formerly a municipality of land which, after it was incorporated into the municipality of Bergen in 1972, has become increasingly urbanized. A big city like Bergen needs an overall police response, which is achieved by coordinating the services of Arna, Åsane and Ulset.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1263	My question to the Council of State was whether she thought that the reorganisation was in line with the leaders of the Storting and her own statements on volunteering, that no aggregation would happen if it did not happen voluntarily. I find that the Council of State did not answer the question that was asked by me in today's Question Time. The size has clear leads for what's going to happen. The emphasis has been placed on the near-police model, with a good overview and a good knowledge of the local environment, so there is a need for local officials. It is according to the model that you want to build up both the loner's and the police's business in the future. At that time, when these offices are merged into such a unity that even Kristiansund, the hometown of the Council of State, becomes small, the local knowledge that exists today is lost. When you're in Arna, you're in active police service until noon. 22 o'clock in the evening and until 7 o'clock in the morning. 02 at night from Saturday to Sunday, I think it's strange to say that this is going to be a better choice of police services for the people of Arna. My question is, how does this aggregation of such a large unit relate to the leadership of the Stortinge in the area of near-police and local knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1272	As I tried to underline in my first answer, the starting point here is that the unit in Arna is going to pass as a position of office, but not as a county office of its own. What remains is that we maintain a near-police model. There will be people with good local skills serving the site, and it will provide increased accessibility for the local population. So we can't see anything else but that all of the assumptions that were put in are taken care of here. When it comes to volunteering, I would say that for example. The city council, which is our consultative board, has said that this is a good way to do it. So I have the greatest expectations in terms of the population getting good police services with the near-police model that we're in favour of, and that's based on Storting's assumptions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1279	The question to the Council of State will then be: does what she now says, that those who are going to serve the district of Arna become the same all the time, that there will be no exchange of personnel, between Åsane and Ulset and the Arna area, but that there will be the necessary local knowledge among the police? In that case, I think the police officer in Bergen doesn't have the same thoughts about how to use his crew effectively. But I also asked another question. The Council of State has made a clear statement on the question of volunteering, in fact in Arna. In June, the Council of State was in Arna and said that one will not make mergers where there is no voluntary action. So now in Bergen in 1995, it was thought to be a police unit in Arna. Will the Council of State wait to carry out these mergers to the municipality, city council and county councillors have been allowed to make their own statements? Will she wait to make the merger until it is proven whether this is a voluntary merger or not?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1286	I remind you again that what is the Police and Justice Department Hearing Body in such cases is the City Council – or the Presidency if it has been delegated to you – and this is what we believe is taken care of in this matter. As far as guaranteeing good local knowledge and the same staff is concerned, the situation today is that even within the police, people and new people are going to stop — and guarantee that you get ‘born’ at any police or county office, I may not be able to give, either there or elsewhere. But we want to build on this with close-up police and good local knowledge. Then I expect that you can acquire such knowledge as you serve in different places – even if it is within the same municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1296	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘The majority in Stortinget decided in 1997 that Norway should conclude a cooperation agreement with the Schengen countries. The Government is now negotiating a new appointment. In order to stimulate the debate on the Schengen case, it is crucial with maximum transparency. Will the Council of State regularly publish the list of cases from the meeting of the Executive Committee of the Schengen Cooperation from the previous meeting, as the Danish Government does to the Folketing?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1305	I agree with Mr Aarrestad that it is important to stimulate the debate on the Schengen issue. The Government emphasises the need to exercise transparency and transparency in Schengen matters. Then it is just to add that the agenda of the meetings of the Executive Committee is usually reported in the department and is open to transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1317	I would like to thank you for the answer, that someone is now going to publish the agenda. In Denmark, Danish summary and briefing are also published, and it can often be as interesting as the case lists. The maximum transparency in these documents is known as decisive to be able to participate in this debate. Will the Council of State also contribute to the publication and sending of the report and summary, e.g. by the Foreign Affairs Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1322	As my first answer showed, the Government wants transparency on these questions, and current practice – which I thus explained – should be reassuring in that context. Of course, when it comes to media transparency issues, we have to make an assessment of each document, because, as you know, issues relating to negotiation and international agreements, in particular, have to assess whether publication can take place. When reference is made to Danish practice, I would like to say that we are also aware that the agenda for the Executive Committee meetings is forwarded to the relevant Danish Parliamentary Committee, and of course the Government has nothing against similar practice if this is desired by the Grand Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1331	Thank you for that answer. I expect it will be done in the future. Three weeks ago, it was announced that a person had been denied access to Schengen documents to some extent as far as the previous government was concerned. We want as much publicity as possible about such matters. So I ask again: will the Council of State in the future practise more publicity in Schengen than what was done before?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1338	I have no problem answering the last question with yes, but I have to make it clear that when it comes to negotiating to ensure Norwegian interests in the best possible way, there must be an element that you should not give up all the negotiating cards until you can use them. This I ask for respect for, and this is also some of the reasons why the rejections are so frequent. We record absolutely all things, and then there must be something that is not public.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1346	In my question, at least there should not be the underlying and fundamental mistrust of the Government that was in the previous question, so I will be able to put the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘The Ministry of Justice has rejected a complaint from Triangle Consult AS concerning the conversion of decisions on the subordination of scrap weight. In this case, questions should be asked about the willingness of the administration to carry out a genuine review procedure and not just to proceed with a decision at a lower level of administration. The civil officer's incriminating criticism of the proceedings was ignored. Can the Council of State defend such a procedure in its department?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1355	The President would like to stress that the Questionnaire should not express opinions on questions that have been raised before, but go straight to the point.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1358	Scrap solders are particularly demanding for safety and it is essential that the solders are secured against manipulation and forgery. A comprehensive and technically complex work by Kripos is therefore completed on the basis of an overall assessment. I would like to point out that although a decision taken by the sub-committee is maintained in the Board of Appeal, this does not mean that there is no genuine review procedure. The Ministry of Justice maintained on 7 May 1996 the decision of the Criminal Police Centre not to approve four solder slips produced by the Triangle Consult. Following further enquiries from the Triangle Consult, the Department reviewed the matter in May and June of the same year, but did not find any basis for revising previous decisions in the case. The case was subsequently filed with the Civil Ombudsman, who in January of this year, after extensive correspondence with the Department and Triangel Consult's lawyer, asked the Department to review the case. The civil officer travelled, among others: questions as to whether the ministry had carried out an overall assessment of the case, including the safety elements pointed out by the complainant to the weaknesses deemed to be present at the level of the individual solder’s overpressure and background pressure. The Ministry of Justice complied with the Ombudsman’s request and, in March of this year, carried out a further and complete review of the case. After this, the previous decision was maintained because, after an overall assessment, the Ministry still considered that the lottery tickets did not satisfy the applicable safety requirements. In July of this year, the Civil Ombudsman stated in a letter to the lawyer of the complainant: ‘In this case, the Ministry has therefore complied with my request to review the case and, in so far as the arguments put forward are considered.’ In September, the Ministry again received a request for a review of the case from Triangle Consult's lawyer. The Ministry found no grounds for complying with the request, having regard to the absence of any new elements in the case and referring to the Civil Ombudsman’s opinion. I therefore see that this matter has been dealt with in a very thorough manner in the Ministry of Justice and that the department has complied with the Civil Ombudsman's request. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Justice will consider establishing a system in which Kripos can pre-approve tickets based on a sample production. Final approval must be granted on the basis of the production to be placed on the market. This will reduce uncertainty as to whether a ticket will be approved, as stated by the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1378	I don't want to hide that the answer was a disappointment. It is my particular impression that most of the Norwegian administration seems to pay great attention to the Civil Ombudsman's opinions. The criticism from the Civil Ombudsman is so blatant that I think it is too easy to reject it because the Civil Ombudsman in a subsequent letter has almost noticed that he has registered that the department has reviewed the matter. As I see it, it is not possible to claim that there has been a real new procedure in this case. What's serious here is that Triangle Consult isn't any company. It is owned by KFUM and KFUK, which represent an important voluntary work in Norway, and which, through a rigorous interpretation of the provisions, has been deprived of a substantial part of its income. I will allow myself to ask the Council of State once more: Is the Council of State willing to look at the procedure once again even new eyes?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1385	What is referred to here as the Civil Ombudsman’s “flighting criticism” was a recommendation from the Civil Ombudsman to reconsider the matter. It was done, and the Civil Ombudsman has said to himself that it was done correctly. With the detailed procedure that I explained in my first answer, I just have to say that I do not think it is right that we use additional resources on a matter that has been as well and thoroughly investigated as this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1390	I will certainly reject the fact that the Civil Ombudsman has expressed his satisfaction with the proceedings in the department. On the contrary, he has corrected what I want to insist cannot be seen as anything but a «flipping criticism». There's no other comprehensive word for it. Anyone who reads the Civil Ombudsman's letter will see that. I assume that the Council of State and I agree that the work done by e.g. CFUM and KFUK are valuable, and there are no obstacles to the opportunities they have to collect money. When you get such a procedure in the ministry as the one you have seen here, which is actually making this almost impossible, the only thing that is left for a relatively weak organization — relative to the state — to go to trial. This is tragic. And I hope that the relatively arrogant answer given by one of the Council's colleagues before today, that everyone is free to go to court with the state, is the basis for this rejection. It must be in the administration's best interest to respond to organisations carrying out community-based work. In my opinion, this is not the case in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1397	I would like to refer to the last part of my answer to the questioner, where I say that we will consider establishing a system where Kripos can pre-approve lottery tickets based on a sample production. In our opinion, this will reduce uncertainty as to whether a ticket will be approved, as the industry has wanted. Of course, it does not add anything to what I have said about this specific matter. Trying to have the best possible and the best possible security in relation to lottery tickets, I ask that not be taken as a distrust of individual NPISHs that run that type of lottery. It's going to be completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1405	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice this question: ‘The Ministry of Justice has launched a project to test local area police systems. The experience is very good. For example, Damsgård and Landås neighbourhood police in Bergen can show positive results. However, there is still a lack of evaluation of projects on a national basis, and there is some uncertainty about what will happen in the future. Will the Ministry of Justice take the initiative to clarify matters quickly so that close police work may be carried out and extended to more areas as well?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1414	The Ministry of Justice established in 1994 the ‘Local Area Police Scheme’ project as a pilot project to develop a form of close police. This kind of near-police model has been tested in Oslo, Kristiansand, Stavanger, Bergen and Trondheim. The project started with local subprojects in most places in 1995. In Bergen, the project started only in 1996, for various reasons. In each police district, sub-projects were organised in a slightly different way, but with a common starting point and idea. The aim of the local area police project was to develop police working methods in order to increase the security of people in the area concerned, improve service to the population and reduce crime there. The project should be based on increasing the police’s visible presence in the context of a uniform outreach service in the area, in order to exploit local knowledge to improve police services, provide support for the investigation of crime and prevent crime. Specific geographically demarcated areas with 3 000 to 5 000 inhabitants in the urban area of the police district were taken to the project, with a focus on the state of crime, particularly difficult places, traffic, and so on, when demarcating and demarcating areas. In each area, a police officer was given responsibility for the police service there. The official could take his own initiative, work independently, develop and maintain contact with persons or groups relevant to the police and monitor the area. The project is based on the idea that police services should be outreach, problem-oriented and service-oriented. Each resident in the area should know that the official/woman concerned was their own. In order for the project to start, new posts were allocated to the police districts. Initially, earmarked resources were allocated. The project was managed by the Ministry and followed up with annual meetings for the staff of the sub-projects and the management of the police districts. The last collection was in 1997. As a project, it was to be concluded at the end of 1997 and then evaluated. Each police district was to send an evaluation report on the experience and results of the project. The Ministry is now preparing an overall assessment report. Because Bergen got a little late on the project, the police department has not sent in a final report yet, so the overall assessment report is somewhat delayed. The report will be completed during the year and will normally be dealt with in the ministry in the context of the ongoing work aimed at developing police prevention. However, there is nothing to prevent the police districts involved from continuing with the system of local police or other forms of close police. It is the police chief's responsibility to organise the police in the best possible way to combat crime and provide security for the public. This has been carried out by the department vis-à-vis the participating police districts. If the police officer in Bergen finds that the experience from Damsgård and Landås nearpoliti so far is good, there is nothing in the way of maintaining the scheme, possibly extending it. This can also be supported by the police officer in St. pp. No 1 for 1997-98, where the development of close police with visible and accessible officials has been specifically highlighted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1433	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I thought was very positive. The work being done to strengthen police and community relations seems to have priority in the ministry, and there is reason to say very carefully. After the answer given by the Council of State, I see no reason to ask a follow-up question in the real sense, but I would like to express my hope that the evaluation being carried out does not go far enough, the more because it seems obvious what the outcome is. Sun reason says it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1450	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1463	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1469	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In outdoor gokart tracks you can drive from 12 years of age, while for indoor gokart tracks the age limit is 18 years. This despite the fact that the go-karts used outdoors are both larger and stronger. Will the Council of State take the initiative to eliminate this discrimination?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1478	There is initially no difference in the rules for go-kart driving on outdoor and indoor tracks. Gokart driving as motorsports is regulated by a separate regulation on motorsports in enclosed areas such as: sets age limits for driving different motor vehicles in a competitive and training context. The limit for competition is 12 years for the smallest go-karte, for training the limit is 10 years. Such driving must take place under the direction of a club connected to the Norwegian Automobile Association or the Norwegian Motorcycle Association. This shall ensure that the vehicles are approved in accordance with the technical regulations of the clubs and that adequate training is given to each driver before the issue of the own driving licence. There have been no self-regulations allowing the rental and use of go-karts for other unorganised recreational and entertainment purposes. Such driving can therefore only take place if the vehicles are approved in accordance with the general rules for the approval of the vehicle and if the person to use the vehicle holds the necessary driving licence. The Ministry has been informed that on some gokart tracks there may be rental of gokarts which do not conform to the purpose of the motorsports regulation. We have therefore asked the Directorate of Roads to assess whether there is a need to revise the regulation in the light of actual developments in the commercial rental of go-karts or whether the regulation should be enforced more stringently. The assessment should be carried out as part of a more comprehensive revision of the Regulation, where the Directorate has also been asked to assess the convergence/harmonisation of the Norwegian regulation of Swedish and Danish legislation, and one can expect such a comprehensive review to take place only in 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1487	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased that the Council of State has asked the Directorate of Road to assess the need for a revision of the regulation. Anyone may open go-cart lanes provided that the vehicles are approved and that the user has a driving licence. I think many people who run commercial rental of go-karts miss a code of conduct that allows for a more extensive use than is permitted today. Otherwise, I had an additional question about when this case would be available, but that has already been answered by the Council of State – so thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1496	Thanks to intensive searches and contact activities on the part of the representative Eirin Faldet, I have had a deep insight into the go-kart system, as the representative Skogholt brings up here. I am aware that there are installations that need to be looked at in relation to safety requirements, and I am also aware of the fact that, among other things. an excellent prevention work is being carried out by the police, which should be looked at in this context, and which I believe is also the basis of the question asked by the representative of Skogholt. So I confirm that such practical conditions have caused me to ask the Directorate of Road to do the work that is now in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1504	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘The problems at Oslo Airport Gardermoen seem to increase from day to day. The last message is that there will be even greater problems for both employees and passengers from week 44, when the winter routes start up. What measures can the Council of State take to ensure that we have the most normal situation at Oslo Airport Gardermoen as quickly as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1513	Putting into service a new main aerodrome is a very complex process. The main objective is to achieve safe and efficient operation. The process involves not only all employees at Oslo Airport AS, the airlines and other companies at the airport itself, but also those serving the airspace around the airport. The opening of the main aerodrome was temporarily moved back a few days to coincide with the conversion of the airspace structure in northern Europe. The new airspace structure will in the long term increase the capacity of traffic management. In the opinion of the Aviation Agency, this would increase overall delays over a longer period of time if the opening of the Gardermoen and the conversion of the airspace structure were to take place in two stages. During the run-in phase to date, different factors have contributed to the build-up of traffic during peak load periods. Among the main factors were data failures in the traffic information system, failures in telephone centres and the management of changes in airspace structure by other countries. Irregularities arising are followed up on a continuous basis. A careful review has been carried out of the factors that would have an impact on safety and traffic management when the new aerodrome opened, where, for safety reasons, certain restrictions on traffic were found to have to be imposed in the early stages. It was therefore found necessary to keep traffic down to 32 air movements per year. hours the first days, but then increased to 40 flight movements per day. hour. From 14 October until the implementation of the Winter Programme on 25 October, a traffic volume corresponding to the sum of Fornebu and Gardermoen has been phased out, resulting in a take-off or landing every 90 seconds. Capacity will continue to grow gradually. As from the start of the winter programme, an agreement has been reached between the Swedish Aviation Agency and the main airlines to temporarily reduce the offer by 15 air movements during the busiest period of the morning. 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. 10th@item: inlistbox This gives a capacity of 50 flight movements per hour. The scheme shall be evaluated after one week. Useful experience has been gained since the opening, which contributes to an ever more flexible operation of traffic. I will continue to follow developments closely, but at the same time I would like to stress that high security is a priority before high capacity. Otherwise, I will refer to the answer I give to the next question, question no. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1532	Has the Ministry assessed the socio-economic impact of the delays we have had to date? With that question, I believe that with a thousand passengers standing out there for an hour, we can count on half a million kroner, roughly, if we calculate 500 kroner an hour. And we'll probably find that it's even more if we go out into the periphery and look at what additional expenses the individual gets. It has great consequences not only for the one travelling, but for everyone and not least for the employees. I am pleased that the minister sees this positively, but I just wonder if they have carried out any financial analyses of what these delays until now have cost Mother Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1539	It could certainly have been a fascinating project to investigate what delays at Fornebu in their time cost Mother Norway, and what delays at the Gardermoen cost, and what are the relative sizes. The crucial thing is that when you start a new airport, you put security first. And to use an image, changing the airspace structure across Northern Europe is the same as changing the road network in London from one day to the next while changing the name of the roads. Then experienced taxi drivers would have had a great job. I find that employees, especially those in the passenger service situation, have done a great job of getting this in place. And the childhood diseases that have been, have been taken up continuously to improve and develop. There's no doubt that when people work that way, they deserve praise and recognition, and they do because it improves the job. The latest report I have received is that the winding-up process is improving, but as I said, with regard to the individual peak load problems, there are challenges, and there is no need to hide. The fact that the human-system meeting provides support for human beings to feel secure, that security is at stake, we must all be happy. With the extensive conversion of the airspace that you have had, both with the move from Fornebu to Gardermoen and with the adaptation of the airspace across Northern Europe, along with some entry problems at the airport, I find that it has come off well.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1546	I thank you again for the answer, but I don't think it's big with the chaos that we've experienced at the Gardermoen. It's a tragedy, to my mind, that we've managed to deal with it that way in a modern society. The thing is, when we're at the airport, we hear that it's the international conversion that's the cause of the delays. On the other hand, when we are on the plane, we learn that there are quite other things that are causing the delays. There are technical problems at the airport. It's so wrong many times that the pilots don't dare go in. They're going outside to find their planes. They take the passengers with them and line up on the outside and not on the inside. And this is wrong. I think the Minister will agree with that. Of course, safety shall be in the high-seat. That is the prerequisite for us to operate air traffic in this country. But I have one last question to the Minister, and that is the following: At what time does the Minister and Ministry of Transport expect the airport to have reached the level that we can expect at the end of the nineteenth century?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1555	There are probably some experiences that are unpleasant, but we cannot operate an aerodrome based on anecdotic information. We have to rely on what's going on. I have traveled from the airport many times myself, and I have experienced that the information has been very robust and accurate all the way. I have even been put on a bus to Sogndal at the time of opening, because that was the only possibility that day, and I experienced a staff doing the job in a good way. By systematically working on the matter both in relation to what is involved in technology, what is involved in people's work on this, and giving good support to those who actually do a great job on the front line, the airport operation will normalize, and we'll be able to handle the capacity we need. Looking at many other air passengers that have started, Gardermoen has made good progress, but there are challenges and child diseases – there is no need to hide them. We all get the best ashore if we help here. My contribution to it, for example, is to use the flight properly often. It's a very pleasant experience. In addition, I keep myself well, in fact continuously, informed about what is happening, and I also have the latest report with me here today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1565	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Since 8 October 1998, exceptional conditions have largely prevailed in Norwegian aviation since the opening of Oslo Airport Gardermoen. Significant delays, cancellations and reductions in capacity lead to high social costs. The employees of the air carriers have had to take responsibility for the passengers. What will the Council of State do to get the right authority to take responsibility for recent rootstocks on Gardermoen and in Norwegian aviation?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1574	It is the Swedish Aviation Agency that has the primary responsibility for aviation safety and airspace and aerodrome capacity. When safety is weighed against capacity, safety is the heaviest. Oslo Airport AS is responsible for the ownership and operation of the new main aerodrome. Oslo Airport AS, as the aerodrome owner, is fully responsible for the aerodrome product and associated technical systems and takes this responsibility very seriously. This is the responsibility of Oslo Airport AS, in cooperation with the major airlines and the action operators, to ensure that new procedures, procedures and use of technical equipment are properly managed. This is because it is a very great transition from old Fornebu airport to the new and modern Oslo Airport Gardermoen for all employees in terms of the use of technical equipment, systems, etc. However, many actors contribute to the overall operation. Air carriers, action operators, catering companies, police, customs officers and shop and service personnel are all very important in making a large airport work. For very many operational functions, there is a shared responsibility between the aerodrome owner and the carrier for the handling of passengers from check-in to boarding. International expertise that has followed this process has given a positive indication of the handling of the above processes. The childhood diseases and problems that Oslo Airport AS took with it in the first two weeks after starting up have decreased. In my opinion, Oslo Airport AS takes responsibility seriously. I have been continuously briefed on progress and will, of course, continue to follow developments in operation very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1585	In the answer to the previous, the used Council of State asks the term ‘anecdotal information’. I have to say that using that type of language in an answer seems very arrogant to me. If this is the case, the Council of State feels that everything that has been described about the Gardermo is just anecdotal, I want to make the Council of State aware that there are very many people who address us as users, who experience this as something quite different than anecdotal. I would like to ask: What responsibility does the Council of State feel that he has in relation to providing the right information? And does the Council of State think it is right that the main weight of responsibility for fronting customers and helping with information has been taken by the staff, while the rest have hidden behind the counter?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1592	Now I'm not adding anything derogatory to the term 'anecdotic information'. In it I add the experiences that the individual has, and that can never be taken away from the individual who has had it, whether he is a staging representative or anyone who travels to and from this aerodrome. But that's the sum of all the information that's crucial -- the one that's observed by those who's on the counter, by those who are operators, yes, of course all of them, and that's the information that I'm constantly getting. But information from individuals also counts, because it's part of the whole picture. It causes control questions to be asked, assuring itself that the information is correct. And one of the things that I have the stress is that everyone responsible, not least those who are at the heart of this, with the management responsibility, should always make sure that the information given is correct with the users. I would also like to take the initiative to give a great deal of recognition to those who are often put under pressure in this division of responsibilities, namely those in the bar – which I myself have crossed many times – because they deserve recognition. But it is of course, as it is in the question, so that everyone who is responsible should not be shadowed away – they should stand up and tell the truth about what is happening. It has to be, it's the only way to ensure that childhood diseases are resolved, and that operations are as good as you have to require from a modern airport.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1597	I think I noticed a rather different tone in the articles of the Council of State now. When it comes to developing a new airport, we all realize that this isn't quite easy. But then it's also important to be willing to accept that things don't go the way you hoped, and not do what I get to call a completely unacceptable discretionary painting of action patterns and information. I perceived the council that he gave honor to the staff. That's good. What, then, is the critical attitude of the Council of State towards information provided by, inter alia, the Aerodrome Authorities and the Aviation Administration?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1602	I'm not familiar with the term "sex painting". I did it quite clearly long before Gardermoen opened, that one had to expect childhood diseases, one had to expect that in order to deal with it, one had to provide truthful information all the way. I have, of course, helped to ensure that such information structures are built up and that they should be good. That information is familiar to me given by both management and everyone else. In some contexts it has not functioned well enough internally – therefore people in the booth have had to take ‘a drag’. Especially in situations at first, when the air-parking system didn't work, so you had to improvise, it became a lot of strain. But I see it as everyone takes responsibility and not shadows away, and that's exactly what characterizes Oslo Airport, that people set up in a fantastic way. They did that overtime at the end of old Fornebu, and so do they at the time of the drive-in. This has also led some newspapers to take some sort of self-criticism on some types of black paint that happened in advance. But this has not been said to minimize childhood diseases. Children’s diseases teach everyone to take responsibility. In that the representative and I have quite equal attitude, and that has been my attitude all the way.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1610	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In the air carriers’ winter routes, the route offers for Harstad/Narvik Airport are greatly reduced for traffic within the country. In the region there is a strong response to these extensive cuts, as there is no poor passenger base that may be the justification. For industry and for other users in the region, cuts mean large additional costs and practical problems. What can the Council of State do to correct this relationship?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1619	In the context of the transition to the 1998/99 Winter Programme, the carrier SAS has chosen to reduce its offer regionally to and from Evenes. As far as I know, this is among other things. based on the company’s assessment of the competitive situation in the region and other commercial circumstances. The company is free to make such changes. As Minister of Transport, it is my responsibility to ensure that the overall transport standard is also satisfactory in this region. After thorough studies of e.g. The route offer to and from Harstad/Narvik Airport, the route offer to and from Narvik Airport, as well as the maritime route offer by fast boat and fast route to and from Harstad, is my opinion that the overall transport standard in the region does not justify State intervention. Under aviation-related legislation, state intervention in the market may occur when the overall transport standard becomes too poor. In the case of aviation, the so-called public service obligation, FOT, must then be published. This includes, inter alia: exclusive and monopoly on the routes to and from Evenes, which I understand, among other things. the airport support committee has been negative to. Therefore, both the actual existing transport standard in the region and the disadvantages of State intervention with the FOT indicate that the State should not intervene. However, I would nevertheless encourage interested users and other stakeholders to make contact with the airlines concerned in order to exert pressure for an improved route offer, if it is such that uncertainties regarding the actual passenger base have negatively affected the air carrier’s assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1630	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The reduced route provision applies not only to one airport but to several airports serving large areas in northern Norway. Among other things, I have come to know that it has reacted quite strongly from the municipality of Alta. I have registered in the press that the department has described the change as marginal. I must say this surprises me, when, for example. Harstad/Narvik Airport has been reduced by 30 pst. and correspondence with other routes has become much more difficult. It is difficult to understand when the passenger base is good, nor is it denied by the company. So it's actually easier today to travel by plane from Harstad/Narvik Airport via the Gardermoen to Tromsø than it is to travel directly. This must lurk in the ears of most people, and it must be termed a district enemy. I think the Council of State is taking too easy on these issues that have been raised, and I ask whether the Council of State might consider discussing these issues with the airlines with a view to resolving them.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1635	As is known by a very robust majority in the Stortinget, there is a deregulation of aviation on the main route network, while at the same time we have a call for tenders on the short-range network. That's what's the game rules for what's available. It is the open debate on route provision that affects, and it is not that the ministry has any control over this situation. We're still trying to follow up on what's happening to changes, and what I did in my answer was the rules of the game that apply to the changes. It was also clear from the answer how to influence the situation if it is that there is incorrect information about the user base that has affected the route layout. I have registered that the representative has asked me to look at this again, and I am going to review the actual information I have about the situation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1642	I am aware of the actual rules that apply to aviation and to route arrangements. But I cannot deny that it must be a task for all of us to go to the airlines and try to get them to understand the consequences this has brought. I am very pleased that the Council of State takes my request seriously, and that he will go to the airlines and discuss this situation, precisely on the basis of the demonstrable impact this has on industry and other users in a large region.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1649	I think my answer was more goodwill than it was the basis for. I didn't say I was going to go to the airlines, but I said I would look again at the information base that exists on the actual development of the region. That's part of the information that the department has and that we're taking with us. I've promised to do that, and I repeat that, and of course I'm standing by.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1658	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Health: ‘We have become aware that the Minister of Health and the Minister of Education have stopped the distribution of the new sex information material of the Health Authority for young people. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 11 for 1997-98, the Social Committee said: ‘Sexual education and lifelong learning in schools are central to the prevention of unwanted pregnancy. Strengthening the competence of teachers in this field is important.» Why has the Council of State helped to stop a good tool for teachers in this teaching?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1667	I fully agree that sex education and lifelong learning are very important in preventing unwanted pregnancy and abortion. I see it as important that teachers are strengthened in their skills, and see that they need materials that can be used in the teaching of togetherness, sexuality and prevention. I also believe that this teaching and guidance must be put into an ethical framework that challenges responsibility for itself and others and that respects the integrity of the individual. Such measures will be prioritised in the new action plan on the prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion for the period 1999-2003, which is now being developed by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in cooperation with the Ministry of Church, Education and Research and the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. As far as the concrete teaching material is concerned, I have the following to say: It is the Health Authority that is professionally responsible for the content of the computer game and the video films, and the material is designed for the use of health professionals. It is planned to be distributed to national youth health centres and to projects dealing with youth, life and sexuality under the Action Plan for the Prevention of Adverse Pregnancy and Abortion 1995-1998 and the Action Plan for the HIV/AIDS epidemic 1996-2000. The Ministry of the Church, Education and Research wanted a professional-pedagogical assessment of the material in relation to its use in school education. Pending this assessment, the Health Authority has awaited further distribution of the material. The tools have not been stopped, but if the KUF wanted to do a professional-pedagogical assessment, we have found it right to do so. The education authorities have, as you know, engaged a professional expert group at the University of Agder, which has carried out an assessment of these teaching aids in relation to different age groups and in relation to the need for a guidance system. KUF received a report from the expert group on 23 October this year. I also refer to the Minister of Education's presentation in the oral Question Time earlier here today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1684	I thank you for the answer, and I am glad that the Minister for Health has started work on an action plan for the prevention of abortion, in line with the Stortinge decision. I have looked at some of the information material that the Health Authority has developed, and I think it was good information made on the youth's premises and adapted to the time we live in. Information at school is very personal, as the youth himself has stated in a survey, which shows that they prefer to have this education done precisely by health professionals. A wide range of measures against unwanted pregnancy is necessary to maximise the reduction in the number of aborted pregnancies, and there is no doubt that the Health Authority has taken this task seriously. Then I wonder what it is in this material that makes the department think it is unsuitable for age groups under 15. I refer to the answer given by the Minister of Education earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1695	I would like to thank you for the consensus that seems to be in favour of action against unwanted pregnancy and abortion, which, in my view, is a very important political priority. I also agree that young people of different age groups should have good information adapted to the time we live in and communicated in a way that young people understand. Furthermore, I agree with the questioner that the Health Authority has taken its part in the follow-up to the existing action plan seriously. The direct question now raised by the representative Gravdal is the Health Ministry’s assessment of the content of this material. To that I would say that we have referred to a desire from the Ministry of Education to assess the suitability of this material for educational use in school. The Minister of Education has explained how he assesses it, and why he assesses it that way. I expect that we will have the assessments sent to the Ministry of Health, and then we will take it further up with the Health Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1707	I would like to ask a question to the Minister of Health: ‘In May 1998, we had a discussion about the Halden reactor, where the Council of State promised to increase the transparency of transport as well as the business itself. Will the Council of State ensure that there will be full publicity on the transport of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel between Kjeller and Halden, to the Himdalen and to and from abroad, where appropriate what has the Council of State done/will he do to get the public promised in this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1716	The question is initially referred to interpellation with regard to the Halden reactor which was dealt with by Stortinget on 5 May of this year. As mentioned at the time, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is responsible for the ongoing concession treatment of the Institute of Energy Engineering plants in Halden and Kjeller. In my contributions to the interpellation debate, I made it clear that the ministry's position on transparency and transparency is that increased transparency should be sought within the framework of the law. The concession case has been served with the greatest degree of transparency and the ministry assumes that only parts of the material contained in the concession application are to be exempted from the obligation of professional secrecy. This, of course, is a matter of course. As a result, the concession application and all 31 annexes thereto have been examined with a view to distinguishing information subject to confidentiality so as to allow transparency of the other parts. The organisations, press representatives and individuals who have requested access to the above material have already received the released material. Other access will, of course, be given equivalent access. Moreover, the Government will review the confidentiality provisions of the Atomic Energy Act and relevant regulations with a view to greater transparency in nuclear energy matters. The representative of Langeland raises further questions related to the transport of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel between Kjeller and Halden, to the Himdalen and to and from abroad. As far as transport of spent nuclear fuel between Kjeller and Halden is concerned, there is nothing to prevent them from being informed about the way transport is done. I refer you to the explanation I gave about this in my answer in the Questionnaire on 3 June this year. However, for safety reasons, precise information on when transport takes place, etc., is not public to the public. In addition, it can be mentioned that earlier this year the State's radiation protection system has been subject to the transport system itself and found it in accordance with the legislation, as I asked after that question was raised. The transport to Himdalen will include only low and medium radioactive waste for which the installation is intended and not spent nuclear fuel. The manner in which the planned transports to the Himdalen are to be carried out is described in the operational safety report and is public. Furthermore, through information meetings attended by the Institute of Energy Technology, the local population has been made aware of how the planned transports to the Himdalen plant are planned to be carried out. As part of the experimental programme of the Halden reactor, the Institute of Energy Technology introduces time-limits of spent fuel from abroad. Such test fuel is not Norwegian property and is returned owner after the experiment has been carried out. These transport operations are carried out in accordance with the provisions applicable to such transport both in the country of dispatch and destination and are authorised in accordance with the international non-proliferation agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1731	I think I'll also choose this time, as I did last time, to thank you for a positive answer, because I have a feeling that the Health Council is taking this problem seriously and following it carefully. I think it's still a lot of a way of exempting tea, and so it was particularly positive that the Council of State is now going to review the rules that are indebted to tea. One question was not answered, and that was in relation to Sellafield. Can the Council confirm or confirm whether the Halden reactor has delivered waste to Sellafield, thereby contributing to the pollution of the Norwegian coast? Second, the Council of State does not refer to the number of attachments in the public concession application. Can the government say anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1738	In the case of transport to and from abroad, I refer to what I said, that it is related to the introduction of test fuel and the return of such fuel to the owner in accordance with Norwegian and international rules. I also show that, by letter of 25 March 1994 from Minister for Economic Affairs and Energy Jens Stoltenberg, the Storting Energy and Environment Committee was given a thorough account of this research activity and its international aspects. When it comes to the question of the proportion of material released, I can't answer it on the stand, but I will make sure that those questions are answered appropriately.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1745	I expect the Council of State — in the form of a letter or similar — to come back to what he could not respond to. So what I want a very specific answer to is for Sellafield. I feel that the council avoids the question. Can the State Council confirm or confirm the recovery of Norwegian nuclear waste at Sellafield?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1750	I want to maintain what I said in my previous answer on the question of transport to and from abroad with regard to the Halden reactor, and do not have any further to add to the answer I have already given.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1758	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The size of the stock in some rivers in Troms and Nordland has now grown to such an extent that it has resulted in extensive predation of anadromous species of fish that go up the rivers to spawn. This has primarily affected some local salmon strains. The otter has also done some damage to farming facilities along the coast. Will the Council consider introducing quota hunts for oats in Troms and Nordland to reduce damage caused by overstock?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1767	Otter populations have experienced a sharp decline in size and prevalence in this century, not only in Norway but throughout Europe. Despite population growth in some areas in the last decade, species are vulnerable in a global context. In the course of a review of endangered mammals in Norway in 1996, the Directorate for Nature Management has classified the oter as ‘responsive and rare’. The species is covered by the Berne Convention and is listed in Annex 2 to the Convention, which shows fully-fledged animal species. It is true that the otter population of some watercourses in Troms and Nordland takes a significant amount of adult salmon during the spawning period. This has been established by studies carried out by the Directorate for Nature Management in the last few years. However, the effect of oter taxation on the individual salmon population appears to be modest. The Directorate for Nature Management considers that the otter poses a less threat to salmon stocks than to environmental disturbances such as: reduced water quality. In the case of injuries in farms caused by ots, this is a known problem. Therefore, the ratio to populations of game — including ots — shall be considered when granting farming concessions. Farm operations shall also be carried out in such a way as to avoid conflicts as far as possible. Nevertheless, in some cases the environmental protection authorities issue otter breeding authorisations and in the current year breeding authorisations have been granted in Nordland and Troms. A more ordinary form of hunting ots will be a small targeted and thus wrong instrument in relation to the local damage effects mentioned. I will stick to the practice of granting local killing permits, but I see no basis for introducing regular quota hunting on ots in today's situation. However, I understand that the otter feels like a problem in some places. Therefore, I will keep this matter under review with a view to assessing further measures if progress so warrants.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1780	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It is a national task to maintain and strengthen the wild stocks in the country, not least in view of the fact that salmon diseases and watercourse regulation have led to a significant disinfestation of the population. State and not least non-governmental organisations have used significant resources to reduce wild-tail populations. When it turns out that the oter population has a strong increase and directly threatens the wild axis of some watercourses, it is clear that more and more volunteers who have been involved in hard work and cultural work are gradually feeling that it is not useful. I therefore ask the Council of State to follow up on what she said at the end of her reply, where she expresses an understanding that the otter feels like a problem in some places, and that she will keep the matter under review with a view to assessing further measures if progress so warrants.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1789	The representative Nymo and I agree that it is an important task to preserve and strengthen the wild stocks. That is why I also look forward to the report that will be presented by the so-called salmon committee around New Year's, how many different interests have sat together just to discuss how we can solve this problem in the future. I have great expectations that they will make proposals that will be useful to us. At the same time, I recognize that there is a clear problem with ots in some watercourses. That is why both Nordland and Troms have been approved for the current year. As I said, this practice is my intention to maintain. In addition, of course, I will follow up on what I said at the end of my previous answer, namely that we will carefully assess developments in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1799	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The authorities of Norway and Sweden have agreed on common guidelines for the management of the Scandinavian wolf population. A basic cooperation document opens the way for both the killing of special pests and the quota-limited hunting of wolves in the two countries. How will the Council of State contribute to the success of this work?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1808	I have explained earlier this year to the management of the wolf in connection with an interpellation on the predatory game management. The management of wolves is based on Stortingen’s treatment of wild game notification in 1997. The report states that the wolf should have a strict protection until at least eight - ten family groups are established in southern Scandinavia, some of them in Norway. Only when this stock level is reached can the wolf be managed more in line with other predators. The wolf administration has been discussed in detail with the Swedish authorities this year. One aim has been to develop common principles for the implementation of new management measures in relation to population development. The Directorate of Nature Management and the Swedish State Natural Conservation Agency have recently produced a basic document on the management of the Scandinavian wolf population. Its name is, among other things, the aggravation of individuals of wolves causing serious and repeated damage to buff or tamrein may be granted at the current level of populations. With an increasing wolf population, it may eventually become appropriate to regulate the stock through so-called licence hunting in certain areas. The basic document shows that it is up to the authorities in each of the countries to determine the size of the stock before such licence hunting is allowed. It is also agreed that the authorisation of harm reduction or licensing cannot be granted without preventive measures being assessed and found to be less appropriate to reduce damage and conflicts. The principal document is in line with the administrative principles set out in the notification. We need to look at the details of the future administration when the basic document is sent to the Ministry. Norwegian and Swedish authorities also agree that more knowledge about the wolf is needed and that cooperation in this field will be further developed. I place great emphasis on reliable stock data as a basis for the management of the wolf in the years ahead. In this respect, I point out that the Government in its 1999 draft State budget has proposed significant funds for the stocktaking of wild game.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1819	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Does the Council of State see that different administrative provisions on predators in Norway and Sweden, and otherwise in those countries with which Norway has a common border, make it difficult to get sensible management for everyone? It's a fact that several of our predators are reptiles and can travel large distances in a relatively short time. It is also a fact that some of these can be considered predators in one country and not in the other. That is why I see it as very important and sensible that the neighbouring countries with common interests/problems have equal provisions as far as possible. It may seem illogical that an animal on one side of a border is totally satisfied, while one metre across the other side of the border is legally hunting the same animal. Will the Council of State be in favour of ensuring that we have as much equal cross-border provisions in this area as possible, even for the districts, which are very important?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1828	I see the cooperation that has now been between Norway and Sweden, just as a step towards getting to know whether there are different provisions regarding the management of predatory game. And I feel that the principles proposed in the joint document of the Directorate of Nature Management and their Swedish counterpart are fully in line with the principles laid down in the report. This, I think, is a very important and sensible step, because, as the representative said, we are dealing with steppes here, and it is therefore important to have cooperation. At the same time, I would like to stress that such cooperation must never be based on Norway’s relinquishing its responsibility to have populations of the major predators in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1836	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-28.ana.ud1702e1845	There is no record.
