ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-27.ana.ud1613e40	The representatives of Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, Olav Aksensen and Ingvald Godal, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the Rogaland County: Helga Rullestad For Westfold County: Jan Th. Langaard
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-27.ana.ud1613e71	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 293]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-27.ana.ud1613e85	I think there is reason to stop up a bit on this matter, because it is a matter of the utmost importance. It is simply one of many contributions to avoid a humanitarian disaster in Kosovo. All attention has been paid to NATO's ultimatum to the Serbian authorities, and rightly so. I would like to take this opportunity to say that I think it is very important that the entire outside world now puts a considerable pressure on the Serbian authorities to comply with the agreements they have entered into. Of course, we know that a NATO exposure and an OSCE exposure in Kosovo will have many problems associated with it, but we need to make a choice. The choice we have made is to put a considerable pressure on the Serbian authorities with also a threat to the use of military resources. What is at issue today is a slightly different aspect of what it is also very important to maintain, and it is about making humanitarian contributions. The government has chosen to react quickly in this matter. The size also chooses to react quickly. We are in front of the winter, and I think it is very important that Norway makes a significant contribution to alleviating the humanitarian problems in Kosovo and will therefore recommend the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-27.ana.ud1613e94	This is a special case of providing financial assistance to a country where the government itself has done and continues to do the damage. That's a pretty bizarre situation. What you have to ask yourself about in this regard is whether you could have avoided such major destruction. It is clear that they have destroyed 20,000 homes and that 270,000 people have had to flee. Had one intervened at an earlier time, it is clear that the damage had been much less, and there would have been much less need for the outside world to pay out these large amounts. This is a continuation of the massive destruction that has taken place in Bosnia, where you have to pay indefinitely. Now there have been some objections to intervention in the past, and they have also been expressed in this Chamber, namely that one could not intervene unless one had a mandate from the UN Security Council. The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy has made such a point of view clear, and it has also been common in this regard. But now, fortunately, this formalistic consideration of human suffering in the heart of Europe has finally departed, and it has actually been accepted to use power in a case where there is no mandate from the United Nations. I'm very happy about that. But I regret that in the Norwegian political environment, and in many other countries, too, there has been such a formalistic view that such major accidents could occur. It's also a question of what will happen in the future in terms of these amounts that we have to spend with, and the suffering that the population is suffering. A new formalistic recital that we have to overcome sooner or later in order to prevent further suffering is that Kosovo cannot become an independent country. It is clear that with the background that exists there now, with a men of ten pst. who has applied 90 pst. with regard to the human rights of Serbia, it cannot be assumed in the formalistic sense that this is an independent state entitled to the protection of its facts by international law. I understand very well that many states are afraid of precedent, that minorities should be able to rebel and that they might be stimulated by the prospect of independence. That you're afraid of the precedent here, I understand very well. But I think it's too hard to force a people who in this case make up 90 pst. by the population, and facing such a state as Serbia, to provide military service in the only army they have reason to fear, and to force them to pay for such an army as the Serbian. I think this has to force a different view on this issue of sovereignty in the case of states which violate the rights of human beings. This was a personal expression on my part that I do not agree that Kosovo should not become a state of independence. I don't think it's natural to let a people suffer because of the fear of precedent, neither in Spain as far as the Basques are concerned, as far as the problems of the French are concerned in Corsica or where they might be. This is a completely different issue with other humanitarian dimensions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-27.ana.ud1613e107	Fridtjof Frank Gundersen used the word bizarre. But what's really bizarre is to listen to the Progress Party in this context. Now we're told that the world community should have intervened earlier. Yeah, that's right. But for ten years, the Progress Party has argued that the situation in Kosovo was so safe that everyone could be sent back there, there was no problem with it, and what could be done to minimize the crisis in Kosovo from the Norwegian domestic political refugee debate. I was in a TV debate with the Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party, who is sitting down here, exactly one year ago. Then he said, "Why can't these Albanians learn the language of the country, why can't they learn Serbian – everyone else down there speaks Serbian? And why are they going to insist on getting school and similar in Albanian? These are completely unreasonable demands. – Now we are told that it is only to be as militant as possible on the part of the world community. Fortunately, the Progress Party has limited influence on Norwegian foreign policy, for a party that has an interest in it, must be interested in something that lies south of the Sinsen Cross. So over to the far greater seriousness of the matter, that is, what is happening in Kosovo, and not what is happening in the Norwegian Greatness. Unfortunately, the Progress Party was just the top of an iceberg for a long time. The entire Norwegian political environment tried to minimize the crisis in Kosovo for fear that focusing on the severity of the situation would help to provide arguments that allowed Kosovo Albanian refugees to stay in Norway. The situation in Kosovo has been profoundly serious for ten years, and the responsibility for it lies with Slobodan Milosevic. He took away the Kosovar Albanians at the end of the 1980s the limited autonomy they had under Tito. After that, there has been a situation of arbitrary arrests, torture in police stations, people have not been educated in Albanian, they have had to take their education in private homes under the most miserable conditions. Reality has been a apartheid-like state in Kosovo for a decade. Of course, peace thief Frank Gundersen is quite right in that it is very serious that the world community has been silent for so long and looked at this without really doing anything. It was likely also a serious mistake when the Dayton Agreement accepted to make an agreement with Milosevic only on Bosnia and Kosovo. I believe that at the time – now it is easy to be a follow-up – a global solution should be required for the former Yugoslavia where Kosovo also came in. Then we have come to the present crisis: NATO has threatened with the use of military power. We are all happy that it has worked, because it is rare to see such a momentary effect of a political and military threat as in this case. The historical judgment is, of course, far too early to fall — much will happen in the years to come in Kosovo — but to this extent the threat has worked as desired. Milosevic has accepted all the demands made by the United Nations. It is quite unlikely that this could have happened without the threat of the use of power. Let's remember that everything else was tried. Serbia threw out all international organisations, an economic boycott of Serbia was in place, almost all the foreign ministers in the world — including the Norwegian — have been there to try and talk to Milosevic, without it acting as if there was no momentary effect of either Vollebæks or others’ visits down there. In other words, everything had been tried. The only thing left was using what we don't really want to use, that's a military threat. It has seemed so far, but the final verdict is it too early to fall. Now, threatening military power is one of the most difficult and dangerous things you can do, and there are a lot of objections to it. I have to spend some time going through a couple-three of them, also because there's a debate that we need in Norwegian society, and there's a debate going on in my own party. But in reality, there is a debate that should be going on all over Norway, where the uncertainty about these issues, as I see it, goes a long way into most parties. The first concerns the issue of UN mandate. I don't belong to them, like some people on the right, who take that question easy. I believe that we are entering into a global disorder, a form of power's right, if we accept that any major power can get along. And the only alternative to major acts – whether it be the United States, China, Russia or others – being able to accommodate is an organized world, where the UN and the UN Security Council are the only ones that can provide a basis of international law for the use of military power on behalf of the world community. But then you come up with what needs to be considered an emergency situation. There's a right of emergency in private law, everyone thinks you should have a ban on both murder, killing and theft in general law, but everyone will also accept that there are given situations in human life where it's right to take a life and where it'll be right to steal because you earn higher goals with it. At my discretion, the situation in Kosovo is now of such a nature that emergency law must prevail before international law. I think everyone will understand that there are such situations. No human can seriously claim that e.g. Germany's sovereignty was to be superior to stopping the burns in Auschwitz. Now there was a war situation, so it was different. But if you were thinking about mass murder of that kind in a country under peaceful conditions, everyone would think that the world community had to intervene, and that the emergency law came before international law, even if you didn't have a UN mandate. When Vietnam invaded Cambodia in 1979, murders were stopped at a time when Pol Pot had killed 1.7 million people. I honestly believe that most in this assembly feel ashamed that Norway accepted Pol Pot's government as the legally elected international law government in Cambodia beyond the 1980s. I meet very few people in today's debate who say that it was right for us to insist on international law rather than say that from the point of view of emergency law, it was, after all, better for Vietnam to set up Pol Pot at a time when 1.7 million people were killed than for the murders to be allowed to continue. In other words, to me, it is quite obvious that there are situations in which emergency law must go ahead of international law, but just where the border goes, if such a situation has occurred in Kosovo today, there is of course not a single answer. Not so many people have been killed in Kosovo, a few thousand, but it is part of the picture that Milosevic and Serbia are responsible for the conflict in Bosnia where 200,000 have been killed. It is also part of the picture that Milosevic and his assistants, Karadzic and Mladic, are politically responsible for regular massacres of colossal size – 7 000 killed in Srebrenica alone, many in other massacres in former Yugoslavia, Vukovar, for example. These are so colossal crimes that it has to be taken into account when assessing whether it is right to stop Milosevic in Kosovo before anything similar happens there. Many have been killed in Kosovo, but not on such a scale. But it has to be stopped in advance, as I see it. The lack of UN mandate is the main objection to what has happened, but I therefore believe that the emergency law must go ahead. Obviously, there is an obvious difficulty in relations with Russia. So far, as I can judge it, it has been handled by NATO and the West in as good a way as it can be done at all, but it is extremely important that Norway in the further work on this at every crossroad insists that Russia is involved, that Russia be included on advice, that Russia be included in the operations, and that we do what we can to get the best possible relationship with Russia. If you get a permanent sketch again, as you had during the Cold War, conflicts of the type of Kosovo or Bosnia could never be resolved. They can only be resolved with Russia as a co-player, not with Russia as a conflict partner. The third objection that some have raised to NATO's threat of power use is that it was most unclear what would happen if it were put out in life, it had a mark of gambling. So far we must be able to say that the gambling succeeded, the threat itself was effective. We could have hoped, if you had to go a step further, that a limited bombing would be effective, but no one can say what the situation would be if none of this had worked. We also have to admit that the wider situation is highly unclear. It is unclear whether the UCK will accept the existing agreement, it is unclear whether the UCK is a coherent structure with such clear management that it is simply possible to get some agreement with them, and it is very unclear what will happen if one goes back to spring into a situation of gill warfare and hit and run operations in Kosovo, and where Serbia will probably reverse a situation where there are 2,000 unarmed observers in the area. So all in all, very much is uncertain. Nevertheless, at my discretion, there can be no doubt about the main thing, namely that so far the threat of power use has been shown to have the effect you could hope for. But incredibly much remains on the part of both the OSCE and NATO to bring about a stable situation in Kosovo, and a stable situation means a very high degree of internal self-government within some southern Yugoslavian federation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-27.ana.ud1613e141	If the President had now made a strict assessment of the debate on emergency aid for Kosovo, she would have thought that Erik Solheim's posts were on the side of today's theme, but she has therefore chosen not to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-27.ana.ud1613e144	We are still facing a serious situation in Kosovo both politically and humanitarianly. What we are concentrating on today in the light of the situation is the humanitarian situation, and it is insensitive to the internally displaced and the refugees. As one has been in the past, the winter stands at the door. This has led some of the internally displaced people to seek temporary shelter from neighbors, relatives and friends, and some of them have also tried to come back. It is estimated that approx. 20 000 of the 50,000 displaced persons we operated on have tried to come back, but they have found their homes in ruins, so that they are still in a precarious situation, even though they have returned to what was previously their home. The majority of those who are on the run, who are displaced, who have been hit at all, are children. There is therefore an urgent need for carpets, winter clothes and footwear, apart from health care and medicine. The UNHCR coordinates international relief efforts, and it is clear that the forthcoming winter will be very difficult for many of these people. We must therefore make a maximum contribution to remedy the situation, and I am pleased that the Committee has unanimously concluded on the Government's proposal for an additional 40 million. humanitarian aid in the context of the Kosovo crisis. The funds will be distributed partly to UN organisations and partly via Norwegian non-governmental organisations. We have also had an expanded debate today, and the president has not used the club. I will only be allowed to comment so far on the political elements, although I may not think this is the occasion for a broader debate on Kosovo. I'm sure we'll have a chance to do that later. I just want to draw attention to the fact that the deadline for Milosevic's withdrawal expires at 1 p.m. 20 in the evening, and there is no postponement, which the misleading has produced in the news, that is the time that Milosevic has had. What we have seen, as Solheim's representative was, is that this military threat, combined with the diplomatic and political activities, has borne fruit. Not least in the last few hours, we have seen a positive development – if we can call it that – at Milosevic. It's a larger number that's now retreating. I think that shows the need to maintain the military threat as well. I will not prejudge the events, but I find it difficult to imagine that Milosevic will have fully fulfilled all the requirements of UNSCR 1199 before noon. 20 tonight, and that is why we have to face up to the fact that there may be a need to maintain the military threat in the future, so that we can also do what we want to do, both humanitarianly, politically and diplomatically. I have to say that I am somewhat surprised, as is also the representative of Solheim, about the contributions of Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, perhaps especially because it – with all possible respect for the representative – becomes quite simple. I may not say that we have been concerned about the precedent, but it is important to establish a principle that in the different countries it must be able to live by the majority and minorities. We cannot draw new borders around the world. But what is acute and difficult as regards the situation in Kosovo today is not the idea of what can happen in Corsica or in Spain if Kosovo gets its independence, but that is what will happen in the Balkans if we allow this development to take place without taking care of both the humanitarian and political interests that we must take care of in this region in order to ensure not only human rights but also peace and stability in the region. That is why it is important for the UN to see responsibility. That is why I agree with Mr Solheim that we would like to see a UN mandate. I also agree with him that we are facing a crisis situation here, where, after much doubt and difficult discussions, we have found ourselves able to go to the step we have taken and threaten with military power without a United Nations mandate. But all of this is based on a so-called Chapter 7 language of the United Nations: the situation in Kosovo is a threat to peace and security in the region, and I think it is important that we stick to it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-27.ana.ud1613e159	I find that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, with diplomatic ease and elegance, went completely beyond a key point here, and that is that we are facing the worst and most brutal regime of the postwar period, which we then condemn to the Albanians to live forever under because of the fear of precedent and what can happen in the future. I think it is very worrying, and I think it is a very important aspect of the matter that should at least bring the Foreign Minister as far as to say that this is also a difficult question. But here we got the impression that it was of course a matter of course that this people must suffer because of an uncertain but hopefully orderly situation in the Balkans.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-27.ana.ud1613e164	I have no problem saying that this is a difficult matter, and I have also said it several times in the bodies of the Storting. We are concerned about the situation of the Kosovar Albanians. That is why we commit ourselves both diplomatically and politically, that is why we have supported NATO's commitment to the military threat, and that is why we are entering into humanitarian aid. But I also hope that the representative, Mr Gundersen, understands the great, serious consequences it will have if we first said that we should now draw new borders in the Balkans. One of the things that has been underlying here is that we hope to relaunch a political negotiation process between the Kosovar Albanians and the Belgrade authorities. At the same time, we have told the Belgrade authorities that we do not think that Kosovo can become part of Serbia, as the representative Gundersen wrongly says, but that it must have some status with extended autonomy within the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, as it had before, and perhaps with something greater autonomy than they had before. All of this we've been aware of, all of this we're working on, and these are difficult questions. But I am not sure that these are the difficulties that have emerged most clearly in the two posts of the representative, Gundersen, today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-27.ana.ud1613e171	It could be a little bit small to discuss the Progress Party. But just for the sake of order: if you start to accept that a main line is drawing new boundaries when you get situations like in Kosovo – and I think we all have the full sympathy for the Kosovo Albanians' cause and understand them fully – then let's think a little bit about what the consequences would be. On what basis was it to be accepted that no new borders were to be drawn in Tibet, Kashmir, Kurdistan? There are far more Kurds than Albanians in the world. This would mean new borders in Iran, Iraq, Syria and Turkey at least. In Africa, very few borders follow the national boundaries of our European sense. It could be a handful that could be maintained – almost none. In other words, at the moment that we let go of the main line that we're going to try to solve the frontier problems within the states that are formed, we're giving a recipe for war almost everywhere on the globe. That's the danger of Fridtjof Frank Gundersen's reasoning in this case. So Gundersen says that the Milosevic regime is the worst thing we've seen since World War II. That's probably true if we're talking about Europe. It's certainly not right if we talk about the rest of the world, but probably it's true about Europe, at least if we ignore the Stalin regime and consider it a pre-war affair. I have the greatest respect for Fridtjof Frank Gundersen's commitment in this area, but then the question is, what has Gundersen done to make the rest of his party understand this? If the Milosevic regime is the worst regime in Europe after the Second World War – and it is – how could the Progress Party, with such ease, go in to send people back to Bosnia, to this particular regime? How could you ever sit on television and say that the kosovo Albanians just blew up the problems, just freaked out on their problems, and that they just wanted to come to Norway where everything was happy and the fun and the jobs and the courses were waiting, and down there they had it so well? How was it possible if one had the recognition that Milosevic stood for the worst regime in Europe after World War II? Why has Fridtjof Frank Gundersen not used a little of his influence to make his partymates behave decently in the Norwegian debate on Kosovo? And how is it possible, if you think that Slobodan Milosevic stands for the worst regime in Europe after the Second World War, to sit and watch Norwegian television watching straight into your eyes and say that why can't they learn Serbian there every day, because Serbian is the country's language?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-27.ana.ud1613e178	Fridtjof Frank Gundersen has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-27.ana.ud1613e181	It's always entertaining to listen to the representative Solheim. He has an engaging way of simplifying things. But I had hoped that he saw a certain difference in the situation before the Serbian army – or the United Yugoslav army or what to call it – went to military action in Kosovo, and the situation now. It was a completely different situation, also seen from a refugee perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-27.ana.ud1613e187	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 294]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-27.ana.ud1613e203	Yeah, now we switch to softer values. «Old craftsmanship in a New Age» was the theme of the cultural memory day of 13 September this year. ‘In the case of a cultural nation, it should of course be equally obvious to take care of and continue traditional craft skills such as protecting the products created by craftsmen’s tradesmen’s notice. Is it, then, that the craftsmanship is about to disappear? The answer is yes. While craft skills in the past were inherited from father to son and from mother to daughter, today there is only a glimmer of this knowledge in today's trade plans. This concerns many, not least the trade environments of the Riksantikvaren, the Museums and the Association of Preliminaries. In Norway, we have many old buildings and other cultural memories, not least in the countryside. Unfortunately, we have not been as good at caring for similar buildings in cities. It is thought-provoking that countries with a much worse economy have managed to take care of their particular buildings in a much better way than we have. We must note that a good part of the cultural heritage has been the victim of so-called modern development. My home state Uppland has many old conservation and peaceful buildings. At the same time, we find that there is poor recruitment to vocational training courses to ensure the basic knowledge necessary for the proper maintenance of restoration work. It is thinned in the rows of old craftsmen. The large flood in 1995, especially in Hedmark, revealed a significant need for competence when the repair work was to be carried out. I have been on an inspection in Åmött recently and have gained insight into the difficulties that the work was facing. Handicraft skills in the fields of timbering, snowing, masonry and paint were involved. The flood project showed that it was very difficult to find sufficient skilled labour for this special job. The need for such special skills has been expressed elsewhere in the country. Similarly, the museums need such special workers in their field of responsibility. It has been a pleasure to experience the interest that today's interpellation has brought. I've had meetings with representatives of the Riksantikvaren, the Association of Ancient Memory and museum people. It has given me a lot of useful information and knowledge. Construction curricula in higher education contain clearly defined points of both practical and theoretical knowledge in relation to tradition and historical developments in the individual subjects of construction/architecture in general. But it turns out that this field is, in fact, being poorly protected because the professionals do not have the necessary background understanding and competence to provide such education. Practical experience and skills in traditional materials use and old construction techniques are fundamental to the understanding of the processes, techniques and contexts of building construction. Developments in environmental and resource-friendly construction technologies with good circuit and duration effects depend on strong research-based competence and skills. In the old days, the craftsman knew what kind of timber was best suited for windows, and chose the material himself directly from the woods. Regional and local resource availability and traditional knowledge of the use of such materials and resources for buildings are an important part of the structure. This makes the structure look like a taus dialect in which the building craftsman both speaks and develops the language. In other words, based on tradition, it may be possible to build an ultramodern house if the craftsman is anchored in and skilled in the old material and engineering traditions. Similarly, this opens up the understanding of old houses as representatives of our cultural heritage. Peaceful and conservation buildings and structures are not just aesthetically beautiful; they are even more a look-up, images and documents that bear on a knowledge of the knowledge of resources, technology, materials and circuits that our duty is to take care of and to continue. A skilled and serious traditional craftsman will carry out repairs and maintenance of old buildings in a way that in itself is building protection, and the craftsman represents a basic resource to operate the protection and maintenance of our peaceful and protective building mass. This work cannot then be carried out by today's builders, such as carpenters m. n.a.? In general, the professional expertise of the Riksantikvaren is no. The medieval project dealing with timbered buildings revealed a significant need for competence. The same thing happened, as mentioned earlier, to the Flood Project. Teachers in the timber trade say that it is not possible within today's curricula to attend to this part of the subject. I therefore believe it is extremely important to do something concrete in this area now. Skilled builders now need the opportunity of inspiration and challenge that a higher level of training in crafts can provide. It will increase respect for practical subjects, provide the most skilled with an alternative career path and increased status. Our neighbouring country Sweden has understood this. There's a separate college for old crafts with the name Da Capo, which gives a total of 40 weights. It is primarily through the practice of the subject that skills can be ‘told’ and transferred to interested heirs in the next generation without deceleration, stagnation and flattening. In recent years, the most skilled practitioners of old traditional construction techniques and the processing of materials have brought forth and brought to life detailed knowledge of our building traditions and the origins of the building heritage that were in the process of being lost. The cultural memory protection is completely dependent on such peak competence in order to preserve the values that we're talking about here. That is why we need to take care of the remainder of the skills that actually exist, and initiate further development in educational provision and research that is in itself practical. The different construction subjects of Reform 94 have not provided sufficient room for the old trade traditions. Lines such as: Cooling and rolling disappeared in the streamlined structure required by the reform. The depth of understanding of the subject and the broad overview and competence is the best quality assurance in the construction industry. Rational, industrial and assembly instructions cannot replace such knowledge, only supplement it. Proposals for higher education in the craft sector have been made in the past. On 23 December 1993, the Regional Board of Higher Education of Oppland submitted an application to the Ministry of Church, Education and Research for the approval of a syllabus of higher education in crafts. The response from the department was negative at the time. Later, several advances have been made from the Dovre municipality on higher education of crafts at Hjerleid secondary school, which has over a hundred-year tradition in woodworking, with three-piece cuttings as the flagship itself in the trade offer. I have just been informed that in the autumn a 10-weight study in the field of timber was started, with the main emphasis on old techniques at the University of Southern Trøndelag in charge of the State's teaching course. That's good. Furthermore, a university offer in traditional food, two times 5 weights, started in Dovre and Lesja under the direction of Akershus College, Stabeck. We know that it is possible to take the main subject, for example. in the field of old folk themes in Norway. Similarly, the practical-esthetic subject of folk music is accepted as a university subject. This shows that practical disciplines representing Norwegian cultural heritage have already found their place in research-based education, but not in construction. I therefore find it quite reasonable that the authorities should make provision for similar offers for these subject areas. It would be particularly positive and stimulating for the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen region if a university study in the old crafts sector could start up at Hjerleid in the direction of, for example, Hjerleid. the newly established study centre of Otta, linked to a university with the relevant subject area. I imagine a decentralised study offer that can also be taken as part-time study. Deaf municipalities have done a lot of work to get a higher education offer at the old and traditional school at Hjerleid. My goal is that tradesmen with professional and/or master letters should be able to acquire research-based competence based on thorough historical evidence so that the unique cultural tax that this represents can be passed on to younger generations, so that our cultural heritage in this field can be preserved for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-27.ana.ud1613e265	First of all, I would like to express that right-wing interpellant's way of describing this part of cultural history, these subjects and the working methods, in themselves, was a cultural experience. It was an insight, a thoroughness and a language that was a pleasure to hear. I see it as valuable and important to take care of the cultural heritage to which the interpellation relates, and the competences that exist in this area. As the interpellant points out, the education and training programmes we have today do not cover, the need in full, and at a higher level, very little has been done to provide such skills. But for me, the question of such education is part of a larger problem complex. At what level of the education system should education be given before these subjects referred to here? Should there be a practical training provision that can best be resolved within the framework of further training, or should there be practical theoretical further training that can be applied within the new technical sphere? Or is it that this kind of education can best be taken care of within the higher education system? The answer must probably be that different parts and levels of this type of competence must be allocated to the different levels of education. Already in the curricula one today has for different courses, both for the construction and technical construction disciplines in higher education, it is established that students should be familiar with their historical development. Elevar as e.g. know old techniques such as laser, respiration and marble, and know old painting types, tools and working techniques. Some places in the country are gathering large ravines in this field, e.g. in the case of Hjerleid, continuing school, which has a tradition of one hundred years. It is important for me to ensure that this competence is maintained and carried forward. At the further stage, it may therefore be a question of establishing a country line if the county wants it. In the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research, we are now working on completing the curriculum for technical colleges. I want to make sure that the issues raised here by the representative, Mr Tingelstad, will be carefully considered in connection with this work. Technical colleges are between the educational provision between continuing education and higher education. The Ministry will carry out a systematic monitoring of such training, where one will also be able to work out how best to take care of these areas in the new effort to build a wide range of competences. Perhaps what the inter-pellant supply here asks for will find its future place when this work is done. In order for the historical and cultural aspects of Norwegian construction to be taken care of in the education system, it is important that teachers who teach in these fields have adequate competence. The Høgskulen in Süd-Trøndelag starts this fall, with support from the Staten teacher's course, a 10-weight further training offer in building protection. The contents of this offer include maintenance, repair, rehabilitation, restoration and preservation of older sheltered buildings. The course also provides knowledge of legislation as well as theoretical and practical knowledge of conservation principles, methods and techniques. The target group for this further training provision is specialists in construction in continuing training and in private and public activities within the subject area. The study has 16 participants, and 12 of these are teachers. In this way, I hope for the important competence that the representative Tingelstad demands, both for teachers and students in further training and for those who need this kind of competence. The representative Tingelstad asks if I want to take the initiative to start trials at a higher level. A few years ago, there was a proposal to set up a two-year craft training course at Gjøvik University. The proposal was rejected by the Ministry at the time when this training was considered to be a parallel training course for technical subjects. The reason for an application from Uppland may be that the valley in Uppland has a very large number of peaceful buildings that need to be preserved. I know that Hjerleid's continuing school has been working to achieve a further development to provide the best possible provision at a higher level. This work, as the interpellant said, has been strongly supported by the Dovre municipality. I am prepared to contact the Hajskolarna in Sør-Trøndelag and Gjøvik, Hjerleid's secondary school and Uppland County Municipality for the further development of such services at different levels. It would be natural to set up a working group, among others. These parties are represented, to find out how best to maintain the values and competences of this interpellant.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-27.ana.ud1613e293	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which had many positive elements in it. One cannot expect to get full penetration for all desires in an interpellation; I understand that, but the answer given by the Council of State shows that there is a clear willingness to meet this need. I have some comments on some of the points. It was mentioned that the curricula for some of these construction subjects have a clear knowledge of old techniques. Yes, I am aware of that, but it is something quite different to know than to have insight and practical experience with. That's what I pointed out was not possible with today's curriculums, as I've realized after examining the matter and the experience I have. Furthermore, landlines were mentioned. After all, it is an option at the level of secondary education to concentrate this field, which is becoming more special than the general approach of today’s curricula. I see that it's an alternative, but it's not raising the level to college and research-based education as I see it. What the Council of State said about technical colleges and possible placements is interesting. Nevertheless, I believe that this kind of technical vocational school works today, nor is it the research-based education. But it's clear that parts of these disciplines might be able to find their place there, and that some could be raised to a higher level. Now I've contacted the University of Trøndelag and I'm aware that they actually want a 20-weight scheme in the future – and more. So they want to copy what Sweden has done. I hope the department is in favour of such a development, because it's a good start. I take note that the pilot project that I asked for is not relevant from the Department, but I am very pleased with the initiative that the Council of State will take, because I understood – perhaps I can confirm it – by inviting to a meeting with more stakeholders than just representatives of the Dovre Municipality. Now there have been some meetings in the ministry before, too, but I hope there can be something concrete out of this, because it's urgent. Avid champions for this have been waiting a long time, and there is already a lot of evidence. I remember that we have Norsk Cultural Heritage located in the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen, we also have other projects that will fall well under this, so it would be enough professionals to attract in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-27.ana.ud1613e306	With respect to the topic ‘knowledge’ and ‘intelligence’ and ‘intelligence’, it is clear that there are differences. My reason for saying that we could possibly have a school like Hjerleid as a country line is that one then can in a way peculiarly cultivate what the interpellant asks for, not only knowledge, but insight and skill in, and it's also taking care of an environment, so that there might be a way to get it, because it must be recognized that in the general plans one could never come to more than "knowledge". When it comes to the pilot project, the interpellant is right that I said it should not be started today, but it was more than a meeting I announced. I said that I wanted to initiate a meeting and maybe have a working group set up to look at what kind of level and how one could get a holistic plan to take care of this whole area, where we value both those who have taken initiatives on their own already, and those environments that have a long tradition, combined with taking care of the total need, so it's a little more activity-oriented than just a meeting. At the same time, however, we need to see this in relation to the other work we are doing, including: this grey zone problem, so something is going to happen quite quickly compared to starting such a work.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-27.ana.ud1613e313	It's going to be a lot to impress people today. What I'm always caught up with is construction – not very heavy, new built with all the modern equipment of the world, but those who traveled a long time ago, when people didn't have heavy cranes and advanced tools, old buildings that have not only their own romantic style, but that radiate a kind of life. These include: the ability to maintain these in a fair and good manner the interpellant is concerned about today. Old building techniques and maintenance of this part of the cultural heritage are important. The Christian People's Party is concerned with culture and tradition. Old barley that gets destroyed, we can never get back. We as politicians can contribute money and appropriations, but that is not enough. This is where competence is so important: being able to transfer old craft skills and transfer them to the next generation so that they are not lost. We peace and preserve old buildings. Then we also need people with knowledge who can do the job of restoration and maintenance. Many individuals and environments are concerned with preserving and caring for old traditions, and do good work on their own initiative and interest. It is important to facilitate the inheritance of knowledge and traditions, especially in those environments where it is most natural. The education system has a special responsibility for also caring for this part of our cultural heritage. I am pleased that the Council of State says that he is concerned about these questions and will look at them in connection with any country line and technical college. In the case of higher education, the idea of a working group would be a good starting point for obtaining an appropriate and high enough level of education in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-27.ana.ud1613e324	Marit Tingelstad's interpellation raises several questions that it is well worth spending some time on. The first and most up-to-date is the concrete need for the training of craftsmen who have the necessary expertise and competence to carry out the absolutely necessary maintenance of the old protective and partially satisfied building stock. I agree with Marit Tingelstad that it is an important cultural task – and important to preserve cultural heritage – to ensure that this expertise exists. I therefore raised this matter in a question to the councillor Lilletun in June, then with the plans that lead at Hjerleid's continuing school in Dovre, as a starting point. There has been a long effort to establish training provision at some higher level in the craft sector, such as lumbering, furniture cutting and wood cutting without reaching. The answer from the Council of State at that time was so much benevolent, but little concrete. The ministry is waiting for the school owner, Oppland County Council, his vision. Today, the Council of State says that he will at least contact the parties involved and perhaps get to a working group, so it seems that there is one step ahead of each question and every interpellation that emerges in this area, so we may well continue to do so. In this context, I would like to stress that it is not reasonable that this type of offer should depend on whether or not a county municipality can find space for the offer within its own framework. It must be a national responsibility to ensure the existence of such supplies, for example: through support for the establishment of landlines, to which the Council of State was involved today, or as a university study. This issue is also a good illustration of the need to have an open mind when it comes to the question of how to find solutions that meet very special needs, needs that can never be integrated into a model, but that are important to take care of anyway. It would be a pity for good projects that Hjerleid would fall into fish simply because model thinking takes power and fails to realize valuable projects and offers. The level between continuing education and higher education in very many areas represents one of the most valuable things we have when it comes to vocational education in Norway. These schools and these educational services are systematically collapsing between many different boxes in the department’s system. I'm looking forward to a review here and a solution for these important school classes. Both industry and others are shouting for candidates from these schools, where both private and public screams for some fixed connection to the system.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-27.ana.ud1613e339	The last week was the Cultural Committee at the Castle to look at the rehabilitation there – a building from the mid-19th century, where maintenance and rehabilitation had been minimal for all years. Everything during the construction period they realized that special techniques were used during the work. This is why they also had in the castle during the years of construction, a school for training skilled workers. All the time they saw how important it was to take care of the knowledge about this. It's now a big commitment to taking care of old buildings – what's old and valuable. That's why it's so important that the questions Marit Tingelstad raises in this interview. This also has to do with cultural history. But it doesn't make much use of will and feelings to do anything, if we don't make it possible. Here in the country there are now 600,000 houses built before 1900, it says in the last issue of Our magazine. Of course, many are much older. Not all old ones are valuable now. But when you calculate that approx. 6,000 of these old houses stay away every year. due to misalignment, it must be important to take better care of any of the building masses. It's a big task to keep these values, both for the private and for the public. But if we're to do this, there must be people who know the job. And here you need not only knowledge, but skill and knowledge of the old techniques. Of course, this applies not only to Upland, but to the whole country. This may now be in the process of disappearing. It's important to stress that old buildings are part of our cultural heritage. This is a resource for the country that we have to take care of. And this is where we have to take care of the knowledge of our old buildings. We can't get that knowledge from other countries. We also need to make sure that there are not so many rules and controls that people give up on the idea of doing something. In addition, it is also necessary to provide support and ideas on how old houses and facilities can both be rehabilitated and used in today’s situation – in many cases such buildings need not only rehabilitation or protection, they also need to be used.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-27.ana.ud1613e352	I am pleased with the positive contributions that have come from other parties' representatives. Although we do not have absolutely all the parties, I am at least happy with what is indicated by positive attitudes. Maybe the older you get, the more interested you get in history. It is not so wrong in and of itself, but that is not the main reason why I have raised this matter. I have my own experience of how difficult it is to provide skilled labour, from when we were to restore/rehabilitate an old timber building in our own school. Without the professional expert from the ricksantikvar, the local museum and the county conservator, we would never have done that. But we did it that way that we got with competent people to help us train teachers who in turn taught the students. It was a very unique project, according to the opinions of the people of the rickshaw. – This was self-esteem. But to get over to something else: It was referred to the application that was sent from the Higher Education Board in Uppland a few years ago. I have found a few sheets of documentation that are in the department, and I want to draw up some keywords that show the argumentation and the points why they saw it so important to start such an education. In paragraph 1, it says: ‘Today, the formal professional development in crafts with the Svalbard letter comes to an endAfter the educational pattern we have today, the Svalbard letter gives the highest level of education that can be obtained as a specialist in crafts. If one goes further, it is necessary to be a craftsman at the same time.'The second point 2'It is striking that there is no craftsmanship education at university/university level.' So that's the case in Norway. Further in point 3: ‘Germany has a three-year dairy worker training’. Further in point 4: ‘The business community calls for a supplyConditions of professional development beyond the level of professional letters could lead to more stable working classes.’ And further on in paragraph 5: ‘In Norway, much of the craft tradition has a doctor other than all formal training. This presents particular challenges.’» And in paragraph 6: “We have a cultural responsibility” – as it has been stressed several times here.”Our physical cultural heritage in the form of houses, boats, furnishings, travels and so on. are part of the owners of the European context.’.» And then finally: RFA, the Labour Training Council, had its own committee that, in connection with a NOU a few years ago, had a working group that discussed a number of issues related to small subjects in which the preservation of our physical cultural heritage is concerned. This is in order to establish higher education. I think it's worth noting, because it was earlier in another context told me that there were some contradictions of interest here. But when we see that the Council for Vocational Training is in favour of this, that part should be well taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-27.ana.ud1613e399	The interpellation debate is therefore finished.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-27.ana.ud1613e405	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-10-27.ana.ud1613e774	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
