ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-27.ana.ud1741e35	From the representative of Ingvald Godal, notice is given that the application for a permit granted for the period from 30 November to 4 December is amended to cover the days from 2 and 3 December only. – This message is taken into account. The Joint Parliamentary Delegation to the EFTA and EEA Joint Meeting of the EFTA Ministers in Leukerbad, Switzerland, shall apply, signed by the Head of the Delegation, High Representative Haakon Blankenborg. The application concerns authorisation in the days 30 November and 1 December to the representatives Dag Danielsen, Asmund Kristoffersen, Morten Lund and Brother Yngve Rahm. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the period of leave:For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Kjell Terje FevågFor Oslo: Sissel DagsletFor the Telemark counties: Vivian Knarvik BuggeFor the South Trondelag counties: Bjørg Bruset
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-27.ana.ud1741e80	The representative of Steinar Bastesen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-27.ana.ud1741e83	I would like to propose the appointment of a sample to assess the impact of the progressive use of the Powers Act on population and business.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-27.ana.ud1741e88	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before case No. 1 to be discussed, the President will propose that the morning sitting, if necessary, continue beyond the scheduled time, at 1 p.m. 15.00, until the current map has been processed. No objections have been raised. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that matters be dealt with as follows: 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-27.ana.ud1741e111	The setting of case No. 2 has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Rule 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. No objection seems to have been received. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for the other speakers at 5 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-27.ana.ud1741e116	The Minister for Foreign Affairs cannot expect much counterclaims to say about Norway's presidencies in the OSCE. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has also put forward a consensus on the OSCE's activities. The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe thus does not at all call for the major political conflicts in the United Kingdom. Next year, Norway has chaired the OSCE. The Foreign Minister gave a realistic picture of the challenges of this presidency. The large observation force in Kosovo will be a slave test both for the OSCE and for the Norwegian Presidency. To the extent this is the far largest operation for the organisation. It will be a big and difficult task to rent and coordinate all the organisations involved in this operation. Two thousand unarmed men can be what separates war and peace in Kosovo. Of course, when we know that an explosion in Kosovo can spread far beyond the Balkans, it is worth the effort. The stakes in people and money are high. OSSE may not be able to perform many of these actions at the same time. Of course, there is also a danger of not being closed. The main danger is that there will be no adequate changes in the form and economy of Kosovo and Yugoslavia, so that the basis for the potential conflict is removed. This may also force the observer to stand. The Kosovo operation binds up large resources that may also be needed for later. It is therefore crucial that the pressure for political reform in Yugoslavia continues. The second danger the OSCE may be exposed to is armed attack or being hostage in an armed conflict. That is why, of course, the security of the forces in the high seat, including the Foreign Minister, must also be with military preparedness for an emergency. The Foreign Minister stressed the need for long-term stabilisation measures also in the Kosovo region. This is important, and it will be an interaction between different organisations, as we see in, for example. Macedonia. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Elsewhere, as well as Albania, will be the test piece for the OSCE as a peace organisation. The organisation is already in large parts of the area. In Bosnia and Albania, the OSCE makes significant contributions to the stability and development of democratic institutions. From now on, the OSCE is inside East Slavonia with a police force. Also, this seems to be bearing fruits. In fact, these kinds of police tasks seem to be part of the future tasks that the OSCE can carry out in conflict areas. The interesting thing about this policy project is that it was shaped according to the current needs of the area. This shows that the organisation is viable enough to adapt the resources to the current tasks. It is therefore not advisable to set clear limits on the tasks the organisation can undertake. The requirement is that resources such as money, people and knowledge are present in individual cases. In the review of conflict prevention work, I will also mention the work done in the Baltic region in connection with the national minorities there as a example of the OSCE making an important effort even where they did not seem so well. Similarly to the Government, the Workers' Party will not exclude the OSCE from conducting military peace operations. However, we should be careful about stretching the organisation towards tasks that it is difficult to deal with. Failing peace operations under the auspices of the OSCE would be more likely to break down the trust of the organization than to strengthen it. Such actions may be more likely to accentuate conflicts than to resolve them if a failure occurs. Kosovo is also a example of the international mine landscape that we face in increasing conflicts. The UN Security Council was unable to give a sufficiently clear mandate to a military action in Kosovo. NATO took responsibility for the action. In fact, it was not translated into practical action, but it pushed forward the agreements that now have given the OSCE its largest action ever in Kosovo. We can be sure that this is not the last time it will be used for military peace operations in the OSCE area. We can be equally sure that it is also not the last time that there will be a conflict with the mandate for such an action. So there's got to be a goal for us to avoid getting into situations like this. The OSCE should be able to mandate such military intervention. This should be the direction indicator rather than developing the organisation itself to engage in military peace operations. At best, it will take a long time before the OSCE is able to handle such operations in a credible manner to a greater extent. Other organisations or associations of countries adapting the current situation should be mandated to any military peace operations by the UN or the OSCE. In the future, we will probably see several of these ad hoc solutions in different crisis areas. We don't have an organisational hierarchy in Europe. We must take advantage – as the Foreign Minister said – of the ‘comparative advantage of different organisations’. In other words, we need to use individual organisations for what they are best at. It is an important and constructive guide that does not prevent any closer cooperation between organisations. On the contrary, closer cooperation between, for example: The OSCE and the Council of Europe, but also between other organisations and the OSCE. Work on a security pact has been particularly demanding. Sometimes it has also been difficult to grasp the content of the discussion. Now it's getting more concrete. We in the Labour Party are joining the objectives of the Security Pact drawn up by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This is also consistent with what I said earlier here. This means that one will further develop the organisation according to the known lines, and that one will focus on mandate functions and equivalence between the participating countries. The OSCE is all inside the Caucasus and especially in the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan. The Foreign Minister has no doubt the right to be in the Caucasus and Central Asia that the need for action will become the most ‘intrusive’, as he said, in the future. This is primarily the case in the new independent states of the region, but it also applies to parts of Russia. The last is a chapter separately. We should also remember the situation in Belarus and other countries, because they can also quickly get into our captivity. Not only are the challenges specific in the Caucasus and Central Asia areas demanding in themselves; we also need to look at the need here in the light of the great efforts now being made by the OSCE in the Balkans. The conflict about Nagorno-Karabakh is the most acute, and I'm afraid the time is running out for a peaceful solution here if new initiatives don't come quickly on the table. The OSCE has a 1994 basic decision on a possible military peacekeeping operation in the area. I've previously said what we basically mean about this. Nevertheless, we must be open to all solutions, including as an exception to peace operations with military elements in the OSCE if there are no other solutions. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise once again the mandate role of the OSCE as the most important in such contexts. This part of the OSCE area differs from many other areas of the OSCE by ensuring that countries outside the OSCE also have strong interests in our area. This applies, for example: in relation to Afghanistan and Iran, in particular Central Asia and the Caucasus. This can help to make problems bigger. At the same time, the requirement for flexible solutions in relation to the local situation is also increasing. The Labour Party has repeatedly called for a greater economic effort by Norway in the OSCE area. We have given particular attention to the countries that are both part of the OSCE and are approved by the OECD as recipients of money for development cooperation. The government has followed this up in the budget, and we are sure to come back to it in the budget debate. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said, 'OSSE must be established as a community of values for Europe as a whole'. Of course, I said this, but I am not quite sure what I say, mainly because Europe is a little floating in the OSCE. Even the widely used 'All-Europe' must be given a powerful stretch if one user is to use it on the OSCE. The organization is going from Pacific to Pacific. The United States and Canada are included. It is not easy to see that this whole area has a unique community of values. In many contexts, we may have a community of interests, but it's also not as strong in all contexts. It's in this we find the strongest limit on what the OSCE can do. On the other hand, this lack and the lack of common hold may be reversed to become the force of the OSCE if one does not believe that the organisation is something quite different from what it is, in other words that one exploits this deficiency and bases it on the decisions that one then makes. On the other hand, all members have obligations in relation to certain values and guidelines laid down in the OSCE rules. It must be here that this community of values exists. And this must be the direction of the work, especially the human dimension, the development of democracy and the duty to follow this up. It is along this axis of cooperation in the OSCE that should be further developed. And with this understanding, as the Foreign Minister says, it is also right to ‘confirm’ this community of values, if it goes a little beyond Europe. Whether it's Europe or not Europe we're talking about becomes less important. It is the cooperation and content that are important. This is why it is important to get the most in the area of mandatory cooperation. That is why we also agree with what the Foreign Minister said, that one should try to involve Yugoslavia in the cooperation in the OSCE.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-27.ana.ud1741e181	The communication on the activities of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) in 1997 draws the picture of an organisation with increasing commitment and action addressing important issues related to conflict prevention, crisis management, arms control, security issues, human rights and democratic development. Without a doubt, the OSCE now appears to be a credible and appropriate instrument for the important task of ensuring peace and stability in today's Europe. The OSCE brings together European countries in close cooperation and a common strategy across different political, defence and economic divisions. This provides the organisation with impact and exciting opportunities to perform the role of bridge builder and peacemaker. The 1997 Communication shows that the OSCE has had an extensive activity related to different areas of the Balkans, the Baltic States and a number of countries in Central Asia and the Caucasus. The Committee is grouped in the notes describing the basic activities and tasks of the organisation. The Committee points out that, through preventive diplomacy and comprehensive activities, the OSCE has shown a constructive capacity for adaptation and development in line with new needs and challenges, including in the longer term efforts to establish viable democratic societies. This, of course, confronts the organisation with more demanding and comprehensive tasks, which could trigger a similar need for increased resources. The Committee assumes that in such cases the Government will take the initiative to ensure the necessary funding for the Norwegian share of the OSCE measure. The Norwegian Presidency of the OSCE, starting on 1 January 1999, provides Norway with interesting opportunities to participate in shaping the Euro-Atlantic security architecture. This undoubtedly involves major foreign policy challenges. It is not just about following up the many important missions of the OSCE that are already involved; the Norwegian Presidency must also be prepared to deal with unexpected situations requiring determination and rapid follow-up of the necessary measures. The most extensive operation in the history of the OSCE is without comparison the mission in Kosovo, where the OSCE is responsible for following up and monitoring the agreement concluded between Richard Holbrooke, the US Special Envoy, and Serbia’s President, Slobodan Milosevic. At the same time, Norway has been assigned the very important and central task of establishing the headquarters of the multinational verification team. This has given Norway a key role in ensuring peace, human rights and democratic development in these areas in the Balkans. The safety of staff has been an important issue in this context. In its presentation to the Stortinget, the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed that the Norwegian authorities attach great importance to the safety of the staff employed. These include: concluded an agreement with NATO to support any evacuation. NATO has also been given the responsibility to monitor the areas concerned in order to ensure that the parties comply with the agreement concluded. This, together with the OSCE's own actions, is an important contribution to reducing the risk to personnel during the performance of their duties. The Christian People's Party has long had strong confidence that what began as the CSSE, the Conference for Cooperation and Security in Europe, could develop into a strong and effective cooperation and security organisation in Europe – the OSCE. In particular, former Foreign Minister and current Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik have been an exponent of such visions and opportunities for development of KSSE. Today, the OSCE is a key element of our European policy. Similar to the OSCE, the Council of Europe plays an important pan-European role in building artificial dividing lines and the political and cultural barriers in Europe that remain a reminiscence after previous warfare and conflicts. The aim must be to develop a democratic and cooperating Europe based on mutual trust and respect for each other's peculiarity, but at the same time with an important underlying understanding that there are strong common interests and needs that bind us together. During a period of establishment, there has been some concern about unnecessary overlaps in relation to the work carried out under the auspices of the Council of Europe. It is now significantly cleared up in such a situation, and the OSCE is now a well-functioning organisation with a small but efficient secretariat and with well-defined tasks in relation to other organisations with neighbouring exposures. It has been pointed out that the decision-making mechanisms of the OSCE are a weakness for the organisation’s capacity to act, because all decisions require unanimity from the 54 participating countries to be effective. However, practice has shown that this has not necessarily been an obstacle to action and determination in given situations. And it's also going to be possible to see the positive sides of this. In his statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out that when the decisions in the OSCE were taken, this meant considerable political weight and legitimacy precisely because all Member States were behind the decision. The Minister for Foreign Affairs took on four main priorities for the Norwegian OSCE Presidency. I would particularly like to point out the second main task he mentioned, namely to strengthen the human dimension of the organisation, that is. the work on human rights, democracy and the principles of the rule of law. I have noticed that the Communication points out that the OSCE has placed increasing emphasis on measures to strengthen human rights and democracy in its commitment to conflict prevention and resolution. This strategy has been actively supported by Norway. ODIHR – The Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights – has the primary responsibility for the OSCE’s commitment to the human dimension. The notification indicates that the Agency’s importance and activity have increased and that the institution has launched a significant number of projects in several of the OSCE’s new member countries in Central Asia and the Caucasus. So it's going in the right direction. I have also noticed that the office has established extensive contacts and cooperation with various non-governmental organisations, such as Amnesty and the Helsinki Committee. Initially, perhaps such cooperation is also dictated by its own limited resources in the office. But I think such cooperation will have a positive effect on the wider, popular commitment that can result in the wake of such a division of labour with different non-governmental organisations. The Norwegian side includes, inter alia: women-related actions focused on project funding, and Norway has actively contributed to the OSCE's serious issue of gender equality on the agenda as an integral part of the OSCE's work. In the 1998 budget position, the Foreign Affairs Committee drew attention to the significant need for social and economic assistance to the Central Asian countries. The entire Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, is pleased that the Government is following this up in the draft State budget for 1999. In particular, environmental and resource management tasks and actions for the development of democracy point to natural areas of focus for increased Norwegian involvement in the area. The Norwegian Presidency, starting from New Year, provides a good opportunity not only to follow up these intentions but also to influence other donor countries and organisations to engage more strongly with increased assistance in the area. Finally, let me congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs on new, major tasks in 1999. I believe the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee will follow the work of the OSCE with particular interest and expectations just in the important tasks of the Foreign Minister as head of this organisation in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-27.ana.ud1741e216	The Innst Notes S. No 38 show that there appears to be a broad consensus on the importance of the OSCE’s work and the broad lines of the policy that Norway should pursue. As Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk puts it in his statement to the Stortinget, it is the mission in Kosovo that will be the main task of the forthcoming Norwegian Presidency. The former U.S. President, Ronald Reagan, once expressed his confidence in international politics, but at the same time demands verification. As far as Kosovo is concerned, it has been said that trust should not only be shown but also understand that it is a matter of mistrust in some cases and that verification is all the more important. This underlines the importance of the Norwegian contribution in this context, that Norway is responsible for the verification task in Kosovo. It underlines the seriousness and difficulty of the mission that exists for the Norwegian observers, and it is therefore very important that the Minister of Foreign Affairs attaches crucial importance to his presentation, namely the safety of Norwegian personnel in this situation. And this is one of the key concerns of the entire Norwegian political environment, which cannot be overemphasized. That is why I would like to dwell on the situation in Kosovo. The agreement of 13 October, which the U.S. broadcaster Richard Holbrooke agreed to negotiate, included, as you know, the Kosovar Albanian Liberation Movement UCK. It is a cross-thinking that the political autonomy or ‘special status’, as it is also referred to as being proposed for Kosovo at international level, is said to be too much for the Serbs, while too little for the Kosovar Albanians. Following the end of the three-year transitional period, according to the agreement with an extensive form of self-government for Kosovo within Serbia and the Republic of Yugoslavia, there is a unison among the Kosovar Albanians, according to international sources, that self-government must be introduced, and preferably based on a referendum. Independence for Kosovo appears to be the closest unison requirement of a nearly homogeneous population. In reality, the conflict among the Kosovars appears to be only about the means to achieve this goal — whether it is to be done through violence or negotiation. In the current situation, it appears that the impact is reported to be due to the UCK/cosovare. What has characterized the world society's policy towards the former Yugoslavia has been, in the opinion of the Progress Party, that too little has been done all along, too late. And so evolution has run wild. Hundreds of thousands have been killed, and millions are driven away. A comprehensive and long-term policy by the OSCE, which does not take into account the independence of Kosovo as one of the alternatives, is, in the view of the Progress Party, short-sighted. Therefore, for reasons of real policy — and should not — for ideal policy reasons — independence for Kosovo cannot be completely excluded as a solution to this conflict. A rice behind the Milosevic mirror should be that if you do not change your overall Kosovo course, this could be a possible future solution. At the same time, the Kosovar must be clearly informed that if they are to have the hope of a good solution, they must sit down at the negotiating table and end up using violent means. Whisk and carrot must be used against both parties. If they want to be heard by the world community, they must remain at the negotiating table and stop resorting to violence. The situation in the area is so serious that it requires radical solutions. There is a form of emergency law in force in this area. The solutions need to be adapted to the specific developments and the situation to which this conflict has developed. This is, of course, a Gordian knot, because independence for Kosovo can easily open up many self-government requirements for a number of minorities in the world today, and this is also one of the main reasons for rejecting this solution by the world community. Another reason is that any independence for Kosovo can be seen as a form of reward for UCK’s violent course of action. Therefore, the desired and desirable solution lies in being able to obtain a solution in the form of a special status for Kosovo, either in the form of internal self-government, or a position in line with Montenegro or Serbia within the United Yugoslav Republic. However, this presupposes a solution that works in the sense that it respects the fundamental human rights of the Kosovars and that in the long term it is able to create a popular acceptance for it. Because it is clear that a return to conditions as they have evolved under the present regime and were before NATO's intervention, cannot be accepted at all. Since the conflict flared up seriously in February, it is estimated that more than 1,500 people have lost their lives. More than 20 000 dwellings shall be destroyed and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees estimates that the number of refugees and internally displaced persons has increased by about 20 000. 270 000, of which 170 000 are located in Kosovo – all due to a work staged by Serbia and President Milosevic. If the progress is as prescribed in the Agreement of 13 October, the status of the conflict shall be settled in three years' time. It must therefore be made quite clear to the parties to the conflict that, in the future, their behaviour will have a major impact on the international community's position on the conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-27.ana.ud1741e242	The main task of the OSCE in the coming year will be the responsibility of the international verification force in Kosovo, which will monitor the implementation of the agreement concluded between the US Special Mission, Holbrooke, and the President of Serbia, Milosevic. This is a major responsibility for the OSCE, the largest mission ever faced by the organisation. And Norway takes over the chairmanship of the organization from the turn of the year. Norway’s OSCE ambassador, Kai Eide, has rightly called the mission one of Norway’s most recent foreign policy projects. The challenge posed by this agreement on truce and withdrawal of Serbian forces is clearly reflected in the reports we receive from Kosovo through the media. The Financial Times reported yesterday on the problems that members of the OSCE force, who should not be armed, may face. In order to bring the Albanian population back to their homes, they must keep the Kosovo Liberation Army, KLA, and Serbian police forces apart. An American diplomatic observer has called this ‘the meat in a pretty nasty sandwich’. For what if the Serbian police forces don't want to get away from their posts? What if KLA takes the matter into its own hands and ‘removes’ the forces in its own way? Then the international observers will be in the middle of the shot line. The biggest problem facing the OSCE is to avoid being perceived as a party to the conflict. Both the KLA and the Serbian side could wish to use OSCE observers in the conflict, causing the OSCE to give them legitimacy in its fight against the other party. There is no doubt that such developments would be very dangerous for the OSCE observers. The unarmed forces could be subjected to kidnapping and risks of being taken hostage. Keeping two – until now – conflicting parties poses a risk of encountering warlike situations. We know how brutal this conflict has been. Civil was probably the target group for Serbian police action in the seven-month armed conflict. It is therefore appropriate that the Minister of Foreign Affairs attaches crucial importance to the safety of personnel. The agreement with NATO on support during a possible evacuation is not only important but absolutely essential and a clear prerequisite for the performance of the verification mission. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has assured us that intelligence and monitoring will be given the highest priority. NATO's involvement in the region must be visible, so that Milosevic is aware that, in the event of a breach of the agreement, he is in danger of again being subjected to military attacks from the West. However, I call on the Minister of Foreign Affairs to discuss further the security challenges that participation in the verification force represents. What action does the OSCE itself plan to reduce the risk of the OSCE personnel being exposed to in Kosovo? It is my hope that this major challenge for Norway will bring out the best in the Norwegian foreign service. We need to use what we need from international experience to show that Norway is taking responsibility for one of Europe’s major safety challenges. We too, by making a real effort for Kosovo, can demonstrate our commitment and responsibility in Europe. The OSCE has proved to be a suitable instrument for meeting the diverse set of challenges facing Europe after the Cold War. On the basis of the Helsinki Final Act of 1975 and the 1990 Paris Charter, the OSCE has a human dimension in the first place. Human rights, the rights of minorities, the inviolability of borders and the viability of democratic societies are key principles to be respected by the OSCE vis-à-vis its Member States. The observance of these principles is not least a matter of safety policy. In our neighbourhoods — Estonia and Latvia — the OSCE has been able to play an important role in the issue of the integration of Russian-speaking non-citizens. The issue has created conflicts between Estonia and Latvia, on the one hand, and Russia, on the other, and the agreements between the Baltics and the Russians are of security policy importance. Different levels of conflict and challenges need different sets of instruments — ranging from prevention to crisis management and military operations. This demonstrates with all possible clarity that the diversity of organisations constituting the European-Atlantic security architecture has different strengths and roles to play. The OSCE has gained considerable experience and competence in prevention diplomacy through the many broadcasting teams. The OSCE has concentrated on factors that can be sources of conflict: ethnic contradictions, human rights violations, lack of democracy and the cultural and religious rights of minorities. In particular, the OSCE has concentrated efforts on trusting measures between conflicting or formerly conflicting parties. Peacekeeping or peace-building operations have so far been left to organisations that have the necessary apparatus and experience to handle operations with military elements. On the right, the Minister of Foreign Affairs does not rule out the possibility for the OSCE, exceptionally, to carry out peacekeeping military operations in the absence of other alternatives. However, we believe that the options should be sought rather than allow the OSCE to assume a new role of this kind. Building an organisation to manage the type of operations is very resource-intensive and will also duplicate the structures of the UN, NATO and the WEU. We question whether the OSCE should go beyond the use of political and diplomatic instruments. However, we recognise that the new type of conflict that has marked the 1990s calls for innovation in the use of instruments. Right joins the four main tasks the Government appoints for our chairmanship in the OSCE. We must continue the OSCE's efforts to strengthen the human dimension. Here is work in the Balkans and in Central Asia to strengthen democratic development and to prosecute human rights violations, which unfortunately occur in a number of countries, of great importance. However, the division of labour between the Council of Europe and the OSCE should become clearer. At the right, the task of strengthening coordination and cooperation between the various international organisations dealing with conflict prevention is very important. We are therefore very pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs emphasises the possibility of Norwegian influence in holding the Presidency of the OSCE. The European safety architecture continues to evolve and to move towards a more definitive form. Norway enters a crucial phase, where a security pact is to be drawn up, and the roles of the various organisations are to be discussed and defined more clearly. This may be Norway's chance to really influence a process that will have great significance in our own continent for a long time to come. Contributing to and designing the Euro-Atlantic security architecture is an opportunity Norway should take full advantage of. However, most importantly, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also stressed, contributing to an effective OSCE, an OSCE that can agree on priorities and tasks, and which is united in the implementation of actions. As the Foreign Minister himself says, close contact with all parties is a prerequisite for success – contact with the parties in a conflict and with other actors, such as the UN, NATO, the EU and the former Yugoslavia Contact Group. The right, therefore, believes that it was wise for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to contact the future German Presidency of the EU on mechanisms to ensure close and close cooperation between the EU and the OSCE. The OSCE Presidency in 1999 will, as mentioned, be one of the main challenges Norway has faced internationally. Right-wing supports the Government’s priorities and objectives for the Presidency period and is prepared to contribute to the economic redeployment that may be necessary. Norway now has the opportunity to play a central role in the European arena by taking leadership responsibility and helping to resolve a serious conflict in Europe, working for human rights and democracy in our own part of the world. I hope and believe that we can succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-27.ana.ud1741e276	The presentation of Norway’s Presidency of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe — the OSCE — was both encouraging and promising. It confirms that the organisation is being recognised as ‘a particularly suitable instrument for continuing the work on peace and security in today’s Europe’, quoting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In this way, the Foreign Minister reinforces the statement made on 22 January of this year, which stated that ‘OSSE plays a key role in conflict resolution and crisis management’. The recognition and respect behind these statements are in stark contrast to the critical and often permissive talk that became part of the KSSE/OSSE debate on the new structures of Europe in the period up to 28 November 1994. I will not dwell on what has been. Now we will look forward to the challenges we will face when Norway takes over the OSCE leadership from the new year. It is extremely positive and promising that we have a foreign policy that regards the OSCE as a central organisation for peace and security in today's Europe, and as a bridge to other institutions such as the UN, NATO and the EU. At the same time, this positive basic attitude to the OSCE is an important prerequisite for Norway to exercise the leadership outlined by the Minister of Foreign Affairs as one of the most important tasks when Norway now takes over the management of the organisation. The transition from ‘conference’ to ‘organisation’ has moved the OSCE into practical action in the field. The OSCE has shown in practice that security policy is not just about doctrines and military capabilities. Europe's challenges need to be met through a wide range of preventive measures relating to democracy building, work on human rights and combating poverty. The new situation, from Norway’s point of view, is that the Presidency gives Norway the right of initiative and thus the opportunity to influence the OSCE agenda and priorities. When there is reason to link expectations with Norway’s Presidency period, it is not least due to Norway’s experience of the diplomacy of peace for many years and in fact has a good international reputation in the field of preventive diplomacy, which is the OSCE’s trademark. It is also part of the story that Norway is one of the main contributors to the organisation’s activities, both in terms of financial resources and personnel. The OSCE has been increasingly tasked in recent years. The organisation’s activities are already very extensive. The Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned as one of the main tasks that one wants to strengthen the OSCE’s ability to meet the comprehensive tasks assigned to it. An organisation of rapid growth will always bear a risk of increased red tape and growing administrative costs, which in turn may weaken its core tasks. We know examples from several international organisations that have swelled and gradually become inefficient, and that have had to slim down the organisation to limit expenditure growth. When Norway is given the primary responsibility for the OSCE, it is Norway’s task to ensure that the requirement for effectiveness is strengthened and that the OSCE is not affected by the unknown elephant disease. Over recent years, the OSCE has developed a large portfolio of conflicts within its work area. In particular, the conflicts in former Yugoslavia have provided the organisation with useful experience in both conflict prevention, crisis management, arms control, reconstruction and election monitoring. There is hardly a type of conflict that the OSCE has not been confronted with in the former Yugoslavia. The OSCE is thus currently more experienced and more competent in conflict resolution than any other international organisation. Therefore, the OSCE is ‘a particularly suitable instrument’ for conflict resolution in today’s Europe, to quote again the Minister of Foreign Affairs. An important objective of the OSCE's work is to build democratic structures in former conflict areas. This work must not only be limited to supporting the implementation of democratic elections and the deployment of democratic voting systems. The construction of democracy must also include the networking of non-political organisations. Cooperation with the so-called NGO sector should therefore be important. In countries lacking democratic experience, this will include, inter alia: be important to support the establishment of voluntary, public organisations. In this area, too, Norway has the best prospects for managing its work. The Minister for Foreign Affairs began his presentation with a reference to the situation in Kosovo and the commitments made by Norway as a participant in the International Control Force to monitor the agreement concluded. In the Central Party, we are particularly pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs so strongly stressed that it would place the crucial emphasis on the safety of personnel. Participation in international peace operations has become an increasingly important part of Norwegian foreign and security policy. In the future, if we are to ensure the recruitment of such operations and have the necessary support in the people for such a line, it is essential that the safety of the crews is put in the high seat. The Presidency not only poses a political challenge and a promise for Norwegian diplomacy, but also imposes great demands on international services. The Government has chosen an offensive line for the acquisition of the OSCE Presidency. Even early in the New Year, the Minister of Foreign Affairs will visit one of the most conflict-affected areas in Europe, namely the former Yugoslavia. It will be an important task to facilitate Yugoslav re-entry into the OSCE. This issue will also come under the Kosovo debate at the OSCE Foreign Minister’s meeting in Oslo on 2-3 December, a meeting that will also mark the start of an important epoch in Norwegian foreign policy. A European Security Pact capable of delivering peace, stability and democracy throughout Europe is an important component of the OSCE. The debate so far has shown that there is broad political support in the Storting for such a line, for such a European Security Pact. This will also be a central theme of the Oslo Conference in December. Norway should set itself the objective of forcing the work of such a safety pact and making visible progress during the presidencies of Norway. The Minister of Foreign Affairs’ statement shows that the Ministry, through the establishment of its own OSCE unit, is well prepared to meet the challenges and to meet the challenges that await Norway from 1 January onwards to take over the Presidency of the Organisation for Cooperation and Security in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-27.ana.ud1741e308	The Minister for Foreign Affairs gave an excellent account of the OSCE policy, where it is not possible to find anything to disagree with. All I can do is come up with some additions and maybe some challenges. I believe there is complete agreement in the Storting that the main task of the OSCE is first to prevent conflicts and alert them at an early stage, then, if conflicts have arisen, to try to resolve them by peaceful means and mediation, and that it is also open for the OSCE to play a role as a mandater, or in crisis situations to play a direct role as a peacekeeping operator. However, it is a little difficult to believe that the mandate role of the OSCE can become particularly central, given that the consensus minus the one principle, or the requirement of full agreement, is unlikely to facilitate the achievement of a mandate in the OSCE than in the UN Security Council. But it's possible to imagine such situations. As far as structural matters are concerned, I would just like to point out one thing, which was also the subject of Johan J. Jakobsen, namely that Norway has a special advantage in terms of cooperation between non-governmental organisations and political authorities. We should do that as an export product using the OSCE Presidency to link the Norwegian voluntary organisations closer to government policies. We should contribute to what is called the human dimension in the construction of a civil society in the many countries of the OSCE area where this part of democracy has not yet been developed. Our experience in Norway is that the places where Norwegian authorities and non-governmental organisations have been operating closely together, as in the Middle East, Guatemala and elsewhere, are the best places to do so. My recommendation is that we don't try to hide this or make it a secret, but on the contrary, openly try to make civil society, the NGOs, an export product. All the experience with organisations such as the OSCE and everyone else is that they are primarily managed through individual cases and crises. And if we look at the last two presidencies, none of them have been able to predict what would be the main thing in their period. I do not think a single politician or official in Denmark dreamed that Albania would become the totally dominant theme under the Danish Presidency. And if we go back one year, to Christmas times last year, honestly, not many people thought that Kosovo would be the main theme this year. Kosovo was possibly predictable, although I would say that it was not really that. The armed struggle in Kosovo had not started properly as late as one year ago. In other words, now to be sure what will characterize the Norwegian Presidency, say definitely that it will be Kosovo, and only Kosovo, is a very dangerous starting point. Only if there is flexibility, ability to deal with new crises, knowledge of a wide range of things in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will we be able to do the job. This is not to underestimate the difficulties of the Kosovo operation, but only to warn against now committing to the sure prediction that it is Kosovo, and only Kosovo, that one will carry on with it. The new type of war after the end of the Cold War in the 1990s has been a civil war all over the world. Now, of course, it is a question of definition whether a war between Serbs and Albania is a civil war or a war between nations. At least there are wars within the state formations established. The new thing is that in almost all of these wars, the civilian population is the target itself. There is not a warrior where one army tries to crush another, like in World War I or in the American Civil War, but there are warriors where it is to rape enough women to make the rest disappear, or kill enough children to make everyone who has a family, take their own and flee, the object of the war itself. So it is an extreme brutalization of war we see today both in Europe and elsewhere. And that, of course, makes the problems all the more important to solve and the more difficult they might be. A few words about Kosovo. We are all pleased with the solution that has been found by Holbrooke and Milosevic's agreement so far, but there is every reason to stress the great difficulties we are facing. Milosevic is very likely to be involved in Saddam Hussein's policy in Kosovo, in other words, stretch the stick as far as it can be done at any possible time, challenge the world community, and then retreat right on the finish line, as we just saw in Iraq. The UCK, on its side, has not accepted the agreement and it is highly uncertain whether the UCK will give up its military activity. I fully agree with what everyone in this debate has said, namely that one must emphasise the security of the forces and the security of the Norwegian observers. But we must also remember that there are quite a number of people living in Kosovo, and we cannot just emphasise our own security. When I say that, it's based on the experience of crisis situations in recent years. I'll give you two good examples. In Srebrenica, the Dutch foreign and defence leadership was only concerned with one thing, namely how to get the Dutch soldiers out of Srebrenica without pain. That 57,000 people, Muslim men, were murdered, were not on the main agenda in the Netherlands. And you can understand that. It's not useful to moralize over it. There is no choice in the Netherlands to save people in Srebrenica, but you can lose elections in the Netherlands on your own. These are the political dilemmas we face. Even more grotesque was this in Kigali, Rwanda, where the lives of ten Belgian soldiers led to the withdrawal of the international force. You put in a force for one single purpose: to save the whites out of Rwanda. The fact that 800,000 Rwandans were killed afterwards was not substantially on the international agenda. When I say this, it's not that we shouldn't focus on our own safety, but it's because we have to have both of these moments at the same time. With regard to Kosovo and former Yugoslavia, I would also like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to have a very alert eye on the situation in Montenegro, which can certainly develop in a dangerous direction, and many Montenegrins fear that the Arkan and the kind of gangs from Serbia can be exported there as the next step in the policy to Milosevic. To mention a few other areas of crisis: in Nagorno-Karabahk, there are therefore far more refugees than in Kosovo. They have been refugees for four years, many of them living in railway wagons under the most unworthy conditions. The alternative to finding a peaceful solution to that conflict is to wait until Azerbaijan gets sufficient military strength through oil revenues and faster economic progress than Armenia, so that they can restore the situation by military means as they see it. I understand that we've got that signal from many in the area that despite the election of a rather extreme president in Armenia, there are many who are now seeing greater opportunities for diplomatic initiatives than before. I also have to ask that you have your eyes open to see if it can at all afford Norway the opportunity to take an initiative, without me being able to prescribe what it should be like. But if there is any chance of resolving that conflict, we must remember that many more have been killed, and that there are many more refugees in Nagorno-Karabahk than what it is in Kosovo, but it is further away from us and less in Europe's centre. That is the reason for the low attention given to that conflict. I also have to bring Turkey forward. Öcalan's sudden revival in Rome is a situation that may offer new opportunities. It is obvious that the PKK is severely weakened militaryly by the fact that they can no longer use Syria as a marshal. On the other hand, the Kurds are now in a stronger political situation if Öcalan can operate somewhere in Europe. To believe that Turkey is going directly into negotiations with the PKK, we can well ignore, but some kind of negotiation process, that Turkey might now be going into some kind of dialogue with the Kurds in a situation where the PKK is militaryly weakened, should be possible. Here I believe that the Norwegian OSCE leadership must look with open eyes at what initiatives could possibly be taken. It exists in the OSCE, the so-called Moscow mechanism, where it is possible to force a country to investigate its human rights situation. Whether that's right, I don't know, but at least it's unacceptable that a country that is so closely allyed with Norway as Turkey is, year after year can have such a human rights situation as they have, and that a cultural minority like the Kurds are actually denied all the cultural rights that we take for granted most of the other places in the world. So I think it's through the management of these concrete crises more than through structures and security pacts and the kind that the OSCE is going to evolve. The Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke in his statement that Norway should be innovative and bold in foreign policy thinking. I would like to mention a question that lies at the edge of the OSCE, but is at the heart of Europe's security policy, and that is the new German initiative to wind up NATO's strategy on the first use of nuclear weapons. Our idea of the first use of nuclear weapons is today one of the most important barriers to global nuclear disarmament. I have been in India twice this autumn and discussed the question with both the Indian Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Indian Minister of Defence. In both cases, the first thing they came up with was the basis on which Norway can criticise India — Norway, which is itself part of an alliance that proclaims the first use of nuclear weapons. This is a relic from the cold war that should now be liquidated.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-27.ana.ud1741e343	When you come as the seventh speaker in a debate where there has been largely agreement between all the parties that the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been good and largely comprehensive on the issues you think are important, it is not as much as you can give. However, there may be reason to highlight what others have had to say, that the OSCE and the Council of Europe are in many ways the most comprehensive and pan-European organisations alongside the UN — it could almost be tempting to highlight. Just that perspective and to some extent the role-sharing and role-filling between the OSCE and the United Nations may be among the issues that might have been addressed a little further. But, as the committee leader, Blankenborg, said, when you look at the OSCE as a European organisation, there are certain challenges to the concept of Europe that you once learned. It is clear that the organisation also has tasks in areas outside what we will without further ado perceive as Europe. What we can further highlight is that the role of the OSCE in Kosovo is clearly demonstrated by the fact that this is an important organisation, and that it is an organisation with very timely and important tasks. What I might like to highlight is the points of the statement, namely, that ethnic, religious, cultural and social contradictions in many ways are central to conflict-making. One aspect is such contradictions when they are related to the situation and the relationship between countries — they may be difficult enough. But they become even more difficult when the contradictions arise within a country, and when ethnic and religious communities are used to establish contradictions with other ethnic and religious groups within the same country. It is well in many ways that, in reality, this is the basis for many conflicts that will be a task for the OSCE to deal with. Examples include Kosovo and Nagorno-Karabakh. A solution could be independent countries, and it's probably also a solution that's been used in some contexts. But what often turns out to be the reality is that you like to get a new minority. If we look at Ireland, where, hopefully today, we've got a solution and if you look at Serbia, at least one way to understand the situation is that there's been a fight over who's going to be a minority. If we look at Ireland, is it the Catholics in Northern Ireland or the Protestants in something that appeared to be an opportunity, namely a united Ireland? If we look at Serbia/Kosovo, are the Albanians going to be a minority in Serbia, or are the Serbs going to become a minority in an independent Kosovo? There are some of the issues that are likely to be at the root of some of the conflicts to be addressed. In Nagorno-Karabakh there are also many ways of doing the same thing. In a relatively demarcated geographical area, within Azerbaijan, it was an area where the arms were in majority, and at least it was an important part of the basis for that conflict. This means that the ability to deal with the interests of minorities in many contexts will be essential to ensure that conflicts in a country do not become so large that peace and security are resolved. I therefore believe that being oriented towards the situation of minorities is important in relation to the functioning of conflict prevention. It also implies that what was mentioned in the presentation as the second main challenge, namely the human dimension, democracy and human rights, is an important task within the OSCE. But one should not view oneself blindly in ethnic, religious and cultural conditions as the basis for conflict without also including the social part of it – and then ‘social’ in a quite broad sense. Conflicts that may appear to relate to ethnic, religious and cultural conditions may also often have a background in resources and resource allocation. It is clear that there are also important resource conflicts in the OSCE area: oil, gas, food, and perhaps not least the right and allocation of water resources. Therefore, laying the foundations for good development that can reduce social problems is also an important part of conflict prevention work. Some of the interesting things to observe are the diversity of organisations that have different ways, both what we might call institutional organisations, i.e. organisations that have countries and countries as members, and the voluntary organizations, that have a more direct human base. The ability to use the strengths and capabilities of the different organisations, while being able to do so in a reasonable, rational and efficient way, must be a challenge in many contexts, including in relation to the work of the OSCE. Finally, I would like to highlight the point that Erik Solheim made very correctly: we do not know what will be the main challenge for the Norwegian Presidency in 1999. The only thing we know is that dealing with the role of the OSCE in Kosovo is a very big challenge, regardless of whether others might have to become even bigger.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-27.ana.ud1741e364	Let me first say that I am pleased with the broad support the Government has received for its general OSCE exposure, and not least for the work that we are now undertaking with the OSCE Presidency for next year. I have also noted the emphasis placed on the security of the personnel that we, on the Norwegian side, will make available in this mission to monitor the peace process in Kosovo. It's true, as has been said here, that we put the greatest emphasis on the safety of our personnel. The representative Siri Frost Sterri called for further discussion. I'd like to get back to that. But we should also remember here that some of the security measures taken are not suitable for mention in this room either. But the OSCE itself has a lot of work to do to secure its staff, as well as the important work we have with NATO. I myself, as mentioned earlier today, will visit the area early in the New Year, and some of the most important thing then will be to look at the conditions of the staff. It has also been stressed that we should take care of the role of the OSCE and perhaps not open too high. I have noticed that and I agree with the position that has emerged in the debate so far. With regard to the question of whether we can manage the OSCE, it is probably right, as the representative Erik Solheim says, that the OSCE is largely governed by crises, and that we do not know what we are facing, except that we now know that we are facing major tasks in Kosovo. But while it is important to be ready to take on new tasks and have flexibility to deal with crises, I think it is important that we also look at what is within the OSCE's mandate, such as. preventive diplomacy. And I want to say some words about it, not least in the light of the situation in Central Asia. I think the OSCE here might be able to play a role within the framework of preventive diplomacy, and that this is why we should bet on both bilaterally and not least through the work we are going to do under the Presidency. Today, from Norway, we have humanitarian aid for three of the countries of Central Asia, namely Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Kazakhstan. The measures are targeted primarily at vulnerable groups to meet primary needs such as the need for food, clothing, shelter and health. We also place great emphasis on supporting democratic processes and human rights programmes. In the war-torn Tajikistan, we seek to contribute to the national reconciliation process and to facilitate work on the reintegration of refugees and internally displaced persons. Our humanitarian aid takes place in close cooperation with several international organisations. The OSCE will soon be present with offices in all five Central Asian republics. Promoting human rights and the rule of law is one of the OSCE's main tasks in Central Asia. The OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights has established close cooperation with the countries to assist them in these fields. Several have also been concerned with what we have set as our main priorities, and mentioned in particular our second main priority, namely the emphasis on the human dimension of the OSCE context. I think it's important, and I've also come to understand that the emphasis here has been placed. The importance of using non-governmental organisations has been mentioned. That's what we're already doing and will continue to do, precisely because we've seen the benefits of nationally in Norway, but also, like, The representative of Solheim was inside, in other international contexts. The representative Hove specifically mentioned the cultural and religious dialogue, and I think it's an important area. Cultural cooperation, including various cultural contacts and exchanges between countries, is an important work and has been discussed within the OSCE for a number of years. The free exchange of ideas and contacts has been a fundamental prerequisite for the emergence of democratic governance and a diverse and rich cultural life. Within the OSCE, the High Commissioner for National Minorities has stressed that one of the main causes of many ethnic conflicts in today’s Europe is the lack of ability and willingness of national authorities to recognise and promote cultural and linguistic rights to national minorities. It is appropriate to recall that all of the 54 OSCE Member States have undertaken to protect the ethnic, cultural, linguistic and religious identity of persons belonging to national minorities. As part of the conflict prevention work, it will be important in due course to seek to promote the level of intercultural understanding and interaction between different cultures, both within some countries and across borders. We also want to focus on the religious dialogue, that is. dialogue between representatives of different religious groups and churches, to prevent new conflicts or to contribute to reconciliation and peace beyond serious conflicts. An important part of the OSCE’s democratisation activity in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been to stimulate increased dialogue between religious leaders. Various projects have been carried out, including through Norwegian support, in order to make a concrete contribution to the re-establishment of a multicultural, multi-religious and multi-ethnic Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the context of the annual review of the implementation by Member States of commitments entered into within the so-called human dimension, i.e. with regard to issues relating to human rights, democratic construction and the rule of law, initiatives were taken by the Norwegian side to increase the emphasis on work in this area through the reactivation of the OSCE Advisory Panel on Freedom of Religion. There was a great deal of excitement about the Norwegian initiative. In this phase of work, it is important that the panel of experts, in close cooperation with the underlying OSCE institutions, make concrete proposals on how it can contribute to the implementation of such OSCE projects. From the Norwegian side, we will address this issue during our presidency period. The representative of Blankenburg underlined and discussed the importance of the Security Pact. There is no doubt one of the important tasks facing the OSCE, also in identifying its role in the future. The purpose of the OSCE negotiations on the Security Pact is precisely to strengthen our overall capacity for preventive diplomacy, crisis and conflict resolution and our ability to rebuild democratic societies after conflicts. In my opinion, the OSCE is the Euro-Atlantic organisation most suitable to provide the framework for this work. But other international organisations are playing important roles precisely in cooperation with the OSCE, and I am pleased with the emphasis that has also been placed in this debate on the close cooperation that we must have between the OSCE and other organisations in Europe. The negotiations on the Security Pact therefore relate to two aspects. There are negotiations on how we can improve the OSCE and the tools available to the OSCE. It also negotiates how the OSCE can establish a platform for mutual supportive cooperation with other safety-related organisations. The international cooperation in Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina are good examples of the need to achieve such cooperation. I give high priority to these negotiations, and will ask the Norwegian negotiator to aim to achieve concrete results for the OSCE Summit in 1999. Of course, the negotiation rate depends on what the 54 member states of the OSCE agree on. However, we have to do our part to enable the summit to adopt the security pact. I can also inform the Storting that today you have been accepted – i.e. There is no one who has protested – on the proposal that the OSCE Summit be added to Istanbul. The so-called taushets procedure, i.e. The opportunity to protest, went out yesterday, and that means that as it now appears, the OSCE Summit in 1999 will be added to Istanbul.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-27.ana.ud1741e395	I've been so lucky for the last year to be able to stand by and look closely at the laborious work that the OSCE is doing, among other things. in the Balkans and in the post-Soviet countries, to build democratic institutions and civil society in countries where there are no such traditions. In Bosnia, I have witnessed the OSCE's efforts to create a basis for multi-ethnic political parties, and I have been impressed by the perseverance and spirit of the local OSCE representatives for their inconvenient optimism and for the faith they have in what they work for. In his statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: ‘Political, economic and humanitarian measures for civil reconstruction must be linked together.’ I think this is an important recognition. I also believe that it is necessary to look at the interaction and cooperation between the international organisations working with conflict prevention work in Europe, the OSCE, the United Nations system and NATO, just to mention these, which have also been discussed by many. The Foreign Affairs Committee has been in Central Asia and the Caucasus in the autumn. In countries such as Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan, there will be a need for active cooperation between the OSCE and the UNDP, i.e. the United Nations Development Programme, among others. with projects to strengthen parliamentary work, prepare a multi-party system, build democratic institutions and guarantee fundamental human rights. At the same time, the human dimension of the OSCE, as the Foreign Minister put it, must be complemented by humanitarian aid, bilaterally or through the UN system, and private organisations. This is to ensure a minimum of social standards in an area where the decline in living standards is almost unique in modern history. As the Foreign Minister also stressed in his statement, the OSCE has taken on a meclerial role in the conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia over Nagorno-Karabakh. I can add that the humanitarian aspect of – a little depending on what numbers you use – 800,000 refugees or displaced persons, if you choose to call them that, is very important, not to say indiscriminately. I am also very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs stresses the need to develop a comprehensive strategy for addressing the challenges facing the OSCE in this area, including the opportunities for increased Norwegian involvement in Central Asia and the Caucasus. I would also like to underline what Blankenborg said in his statement that this part of the OSCE differs from many other areas by the fact that countries outside the OSCE have strong interests, and that of course is true. Afghanistan and Iran. One of the most interesting things in the Foreign Minister's presentation was the emphasis on the possibility that the Presidency gives us to play a central role in the design of the Euro-Atlantic security structure. Of course, the enlargements of NATO and the EU to the east are central. The same applies to a flexible concept for integrated peace organisations. However, the role of Turkey and the development of the countries of the Caucasus and Central Asia will also need to be taken into account when developing the Euroatlantic security landscape in relation to the enormous changes that have taken place in the last decade. I would also like to mention the Council of Europe, which has an important role to play in this process, including: The representative, Frost Sterri, underlined. When the Minister of Foreign Affairs emphasises the need for the OSCE to be established as a community of values for the whole of Europe, it is, of course, right — including the need to strengthen its moral authority in the design of the Euro-Atlantic security architecture. However, we need to be aware of the limitations, not to say the limitations, of what the OSCE can achieve. Nevertheless, I would like to congratulate the Foreign Minister on his presidency and hope that Norway can contribute to strengthening the OSCE, both as an actor in regional conflict resolution and as an instrument for strengthening human rights and the human dimension.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-27.ana.ud1741e422	The safety and cooperation organisation in Europe is a historic success. The organisation's predecessor, the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, was for many years, partly with slow progress, the forum for the closure of the Cold War in Europe and for the development of human rights. At the same time as the conference has progressed in the form of the organisation, it has been given new tasks and new responsibilities. Elections and democracy building in Bosnia have been the main task until now, until the situation in Kosovo has required a new commitment. In the context of these important tasks, it has been a pleasure to record the many positive feedback on Norwegian staff’s efforts in different positions. The OSCE, like other organisations, becomes what the Member States want to make of it. An organisation must be judged on the basis of the assumptions it is given. In my opinion, the OSCE, with its emphasis on human rights, is a unique contact and conflict prevention organisation and must be valued for it. It has been a problem that the OSCE has been little known among most people. With the attention given to the upcoming leadership of Norway in the organisation, I expect this to be corrected. But there are still a lot of people who don't know that the OSCE isn't just the government's organization. The organisation also has a parliamentary assembly. This is, as I see it, very important for contacts in human rights and democratic training. My experience is that this House is particularly important to representatives of the so-called new democracies, who are given the opportunity to establish contacts and to cooperate on an equal footing with representatives of the other countries of Europe. It is also true that today's parliamentarians are often the members of the government of tomorrow. The OSCE Parliamentarians are also widely used as election observers and in this function have the advantage that in the countries where the elections are held, they are considered as colleagues by their own parliamentarians. This may make it easier to deal with any critical comments. When the OSCE now gathers its observer corps in Kosovo, it is clear that such long-term observation is not compatible with the work of parliamentarians in their home country. Nevertheless, I believe that parliamentarians can have an important role to play in this regard. The presence of parliamentarians must be assumed to have a beneficial effect, including: through a certain degree of media attention. I would therefore ask that the use of parliamentarians from different countries be assessed in this context, and then, of course, for shorter periods compatible with the activities of national Parliaments at home. Such a rotation scheme among parliamentarians from different countries would help to strengthen contact between them and the field of observation. The scheme would also increase the level of knowledge about the conflict areas in domestic circles, which would hardly be harmful. It is also a good start that a member of the previous defence committee is in place as deputy of the position commander at the OSCE headquarters in Pristina.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-27.ana.ud1741e433	I believe that the Foreign Minister had a good review of the OSCE work, and is pleased with the great consensus that exists. The OSCE has many tasks. Let me underline what I see as a pillar in the long term: the work of establishing viable democratic societies. How are citizens in each country to obtain security, necessary humanitarian aid and support for a democratic system? I am pleased with the Foreign Minister's emphasis on the'soft' side of security, which will stabilise democracy, give fundamental human rights and secure the rule of law. Choice and careful observation of the elections are not always a symptom of democracy. In my opinion, the period between elections is probably as important for democracy building as holding the elections themselves. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is now putting as much emphasis on the inter-election period as on the election observation. What should the OSCE focus on during this interim period? The Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned the stabilisation of political structures — and what does that really mean? Will this mean that our respective political friends, for example. in Bosnia, benefit from the support of their partymates from other countries? The Balkans Committee is now working on such issues in Stortinget. But it presupposes that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is willing to support good projects from the parties in precisely such a build-up of political parties in individual countries. Let me focus on a democracy project I think has had and will have great significance in Bosnia. The OSCE, together with NGOs, launched a gender quota exercise for women before the 1998 elections. They managed to get a rule that three of the ten who were in fixed place on the lists were to be women. NGOs were engaged and good women politicians were put on the lists. As a result, the percentage of women in national congregations in Bosnia increased considerably after the elections. But it's not enough to get women into political positions. Follow-up must be done. Therefore, the OSCE has continued to follow up on the new female politicians. I myself had the pleasure of attending the first post-election conference, which brought together 30 national women politicians. They came from Srpska, from the Croatian territories and from the Muslim territories, and they talked together. And not only did they talk to each other, they also put forward future cooperation plans for the kind of policy they would pursue towards the male politicians. Here, the OSCE has shown how, in practice, it can strengthen the political system and thereby further develop democracy. Such OSCE projects need to be strengthened, continued and perhaps transferred to other areas. As a proxy, I have had the pleasure of being an election observer a few times in Bosnia. What about inviting election observers from this area to Norway to observe our choices? It could be a good training process for them. But I think it could also be a very good training process for us that our choices, so-called democratic, were viewed with slightly different eyes. I would also like to underline another thing that the Minister for Foreign Affairs had to say, namely the training of OSCE staff. As an election observer, I have experienced both parts: glittering OSSE employees and totally miserable. It requires quality assurance in order for the OSCE to do a good job, and that quality assurance must also apply to the individual OSCE staff member.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-27.ana.ud1741e450	Today, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has not received much opposition in his statement, and that is also very deserved. This is a presentation of a subsequent debate to which I will subscribe in virtually every respect. The background to the debate is Norway’s Presidency of the OSCE — and our overall OSCE exposure is also understood. I would almost wish Norway had got this presidency in a situation that had been less heated than it is now in Kosovo. Even though we have gone through the entire wide OSCE exposure, it is my assumption that the Swan test itself will be how we manage to deal with the situation in Kosovo with the great Norwegian force being sent there. In this context, I will be allowed to stress that we have received the OSCE Presidency, of course, there is no reward. Nor is it designed to give excellence or to extend legitimacy to the OSCE, but it has only one purpose: to contribute to resolving these conflicts. When it comes to solving the conflicts, why we're going to go in, I'm just starting to want to underline the human dimension of this. The need in these areas is so enormous that we really have no choice, even though I have to admit – both as an electoral observer and as a former member of the Defence Committee with relatively good knowledge of what happened in Bosnia – that the problems are so intense that I sometimes make the reflection when, for example, I do. thinks of the feelings that still relate to our war history two generations back in time, whether it may be possible to find a solution to the problems that these people have experienced in the very near past. But of course, it doesn't have to be the condition that we leave it to try, but I think it makes sense to have that dimension in mind. Then I want to talk a little bit about the safety of the Norwegian forces. I join them far on the way to the addition that Erik Solheim made. It's not just the Norwegian forces that are involved, but what can happen if something happens to the Norwegian forces. If they were to be taken hostage, that's the possibility, unfortunately, that it could make things worse. It can humiliate the world community if we can't do anything about it, just as NATO was humiliated, especially in Srebrenica, Bosnia, and the Dutch forces – the Dutch services, I would say – still have a problem with their past down there. Of course, I have full understanding and respect for, and I also agree that the Minister for Foreign Affairs cannot tell us here about all the security measures that we require are at the root of the Norwegian commitment. But the fact that he indirectly says that there are such clear security measures behind our commitment does not give any less reason to stress that nothing should happen wrong with these forces – both for the sake of the forces and because it can lead to a worsening of the conflict. Because it's not like there's someone who wants to go in with rescue operations, even if it has to be in the background. This means that I will address it in the final analysis, albeit very vaguely, the suggestion from the Minister for Foreign Affairs – ‘vag’ of positive importance – about a possible build-up of strength within the OSCE. I do not want to reject it at all costs, but I strongly warn against it – I suppose the Foreign Minister has also done so. I'm going to draw a dimension that I, as far as I can recall, have not seen drawn, namely the reaction that only the possibility of own OSCE forces can take place in other organisations like the United Nations, NATO or the VEU. It's not like, as I was in the meantime, that forces from other organizations are waiting to take on these rather unpleasant tasks, to say the least. I therefore hope not that the suggestion that the OSCE could expect to do something similar can lead to reactions in those organisations so that when the OSCE engages in part of the exercises, they will also be responsible for completing it all.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-27.ana.ud1741e465	The OSCE, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, is lifting flags in an increasing number of European conflict areas. People's groups are no longer allowed to slaughter each other in the middle of the world's media surveillance without anyone's concern, and democratic movements in the new democracies of Eastern Europe are being provided with the support and assistance of the OSCE necessary for the sustained democratic systems based on freedom, equality and brotherhood to be assisted by the presence of the organisation in a number of former communist states and Soviet republics. I believe everyone in this Chamber will agree that the OSCE has proved itself to be a success for the promotion of democracy and human rights in Europe. Despite the need to adopt a unanimous decision by the 54 participating States in order for a decision to be valid, the organisation has proved to be one of the most successful peace and democracy-building organisations of our time. The mission of the OSCE as a peace and democracy builder is a continuous process. During these days, as has already been mentioned, the establishment of an inspector’s corps in Kosovo is being carried out by a total of 2000 persons, of whom Norway will contribute 70, including the Chief of Staff. During January, all inspectors will be in place. Last weekend a referendum was held in Albania in the presence of 188 international observers under the auspices of the OSCE, and Albania was given its constitution, as the second last of the states of Europe. Already on 10 January elections will be held in Kazakhstan, where the OSCE will also be represented by international observers. The OSCE is today without any doubt the most important instrument in preventing conflicts, ensuring the implementation of democratic elections and bridging ethnic, religious, cultural and social groups in the new democracies of Eastern Europe. In the rush of enthusiasm that occurred in the wake of the fall of the wall in November 1989, perhaps not many people first predicted the potential that opened up to new conflicts; they were thinking first and foremost of the possibilities that they had by easing the communist journey after decades of oppression. But the Communist dictatorships had also suppressed the conflicts that might exist between different groups that might have different interests. Yes, you can almost say that all of Eastern Europe was like a pressure cooker, and when the lure, or communism, blew off, then the conflicts also came up to the surface. It is the prevention and resolution of these conflicts that have been the prime task of the OSCE in this decade, and that will be the organisation’s most important task in the coming decade. Neither stable democracies nor peace and reconciliation can be built through a few short hectic years. It takes time, and here the OSCE must participate, until the problems are solved, democratic systems have stuck and violations of human rights have ceased. We are on the threshold of 1999, which in Norway will be the most important year to date in the OSCE context. This gives Norway a very special opportunity to be involved in further development of the OSCE, while Norway, through its Presidency, will also be able to engage more closely in the operations directed by the OSCE. Norway will also emerge with strength in the organisation through the exercise of the Presidency, both because Norway has traditionally been heavily involved in the building of democracies and in the safeguarding of human rights, because the Foreign Minister will have full support in this Chamber for the tasks to be carried out during the Presidency and because Norway’s economic strength also offers great opportunities to put our mark on the OSCE. I don't want to spend time summarizing the many tasks that the OSCE was engaged in during 1997, which has been essentially a success. In the end, I think the future will show that this will be the right concept to achieve respect for human rights and the construction of democratic regimes, while weapons will help to achieve this goal less and less.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-27.ana.ud1741e484	I noticed that in some places the Foreign Minister chose in his presentation a historical analysis of some of the most violent conflict areas facing us in Europe. I think that's right, and I'm talking here not only because of purely personal interest, but also because of what opportunities we have to deal with such conflicts. I hardly think there is any doubt that as well as part of what has happened within the former Soviet Union, which – perhaps in particular – what is happening in the Balkans, are old conflicts. Deeply speaking, of course, it is depressing that many of the same conflicts — and with bloody results — still exist at the end of this century almost in the same way as it did at the beginning of this century. What is, of course, promising in this situation is that both the world community and the European Community – in a specific form – have developed instruments that prove effective in conflict mitigation and, hopefully also in the longer term, in lasting conflict absence, democracy building and tolerance building. It is true that Norway is a small country. It also means, of course, that there are limitations on what Norway can use in this important work, both in terms of peace-keeping and peace-building operations, and in the sustainable and long-term construction of democracy. Therefore, in my view, it will be particularly important for Norway to have an impact on the need to unite and not split up in this important work. As parliamentarians in the Norwegian National Assembly, many of us attend parliamentary meetings in different European cooperation bodies. I believe that the Government and the parliamentarians jointly have an important task to do in preventing reverentialism and improving practical cooperation between these organisations. And because I myself lead the Norwegian Parliamentary Delegation to the Council of Europe, I particularly appreciated the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned this as an important issue both to Iceland, which takes over the Presidency on the ministerial side, and in general to ensure qualitative cooperation between these organisations. I believe that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, probably with full support from the Stortinget and from us who represent the Storting in these various delegations, can go as far as possible in this work, because there are devices, but there is also prestige. Norway should probably use an OSCE Presidency precisely to coordinate the first and to get the second to do something more. I would also believe that the permanent staff both in the OSCE and in the Council of Europe in each way possess expertise that should not come into conflict with each other, but with a common exploitation of the apparatus likely to have our common effort to reach further.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-27.ana.ud1741e495	No more people have asked for the floor to speak on the matter. 1 and 2. [[Footing, see page 525]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-27.ana.ud1741e509	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 525]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-27.ana.ud1741e522	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-27.ana.ud1741e528	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the Stortinget meeting on 19 November 1998 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-27.ana.ud1741e561	There is no record.
