ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e29	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e34	I suggest Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e39	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Asmund Kristoffersen are proposed as chairmen. Other proposals are not available, and Asmund Kristoffersen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are unanimously elected as chairpersons of today's meeting. The representative of Steinar Bastesen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e44	I would like to make a proposal for the monitoring of eternite water pipes and any cancer hazards from using such pipes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e49	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e68	On Monday, the Storting received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government will meet for oral Question Time. State Council Electiond Reply City Haugland State Council Lars Sponheim State Council Dagfinn Høybräten State Council Marit Arnstad The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. Some representatives have signed up in advance with a request to ask questions. Representatives who, in addition to them, are interested in asking questions are asked to rise. - Thank you. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative of Kjell Opseth.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e90	The question goes to Sponheim State Council. It has long been a warning from many, including professionals, that we are moving towards increasing unemployment. The government, with the Prime Minister at its head, has always rejected this. The unemployment rate will fall in 1999, the Prime Minister has determined. In political quarters yesterday, the Prime Minister had suddenly come to the conclusion that unemployment would increase. As a rule, the government first gets information about so important changes in social development, and takes the information seriously. Since this has not happened – and when not once the Minister of Industry has perceived the signals from business – there is reason to ask: What is going on in the government of Bondevik?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e97	I must first get to grips with the prerequisites for this issue, and I would like to stress what the Prime Minister himself said in the financial debate: ‘But that does not mean that we ignore warnings from environments that think it can be different. We will have this under continuous monitoring and then adapt economic policy accordingly. Of course, we have the opportunity to come back to this – if not before then in the revised national budget – and to put in place new instruments if unemployment shows an increasing trend.’ And in a reply to the Prime Minister, the representative Stoltenberg stated that ‘no one knows for sure’, and it is precisely the uncertainty surrounding this that is underlined by the Prime Minister, and also in the national budget submitted to the Stortinget. It's probably the only thing we can say with certainty today is that there's a lot of uncertainty about development. It's the government's attention, and it has a readiness to follow this closely.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e107	There was not much clarifying in relation to what goes on in the Bondevik government, and in relation to this with unemployment and having a preparedness in advance, it is strange that we have just managed a budget where the government cuts off all the measures to meet any increase in unemployment - and that there will be an increase in unemployment, unfortunately there can be no doubt. It is strange, therefore, that the government at this point is in arrears and does not take the signal seriously, except to say that they should have a standby, but experience shows that the preparedness is always too late. What kind of readiness does the Government have now?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e112	The government is not in deficit. The government has submitted and obtained a majority in favour of a budget which has had the primary task of doing what can be done through financial policy to reduce interest rates. It's the most important thing that can do for the companies in this situation. And then we're going to hope and believe that even external relations now make it possible to slow down interest rates slowly, but safely over the course of a new year. It is the most important contribution to strengthening enterprises that may not be strong in this situation and in this way secure jobs and provide a basis for enterprises to add more. It's actually the most important contribution in this situation. If this were to be the case – as I said, there is uncertainty about it – that we will have an increasing unemployment rate, the government will follow closely and come back to the Stortinget with proposals and necessary measures. But there is no basis today to say with certainty that there will be developments.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e119	There will be follow-up questions – Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e122	Sponheim's answer gives the impression that one might have increased unemployment, but he doesn't have any new recognition, as the Prime Minister gave the impression. However, it is important to ask whether he feels he is prepared to take the measures that are being taken to combat unemployment. Is it good enough to halve labour market measures? Is it good enough to reduce the loopholes of the tool tool that go both to business consultancy, support for marketing, export, technology development, etc.? Is it good enough to be prepared, or will the government bring a new recognition there too?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e127	First of all, I have underlined that the government has not come with any new recognition. I have noticed that the Labour Party is trying to create a version that says there should have been a new recognition from the Prime Minister yesterday. With the quote I had, I made it clear that this raises a great uncertainty about – and that the Government has expressed both in the national budget and throughout the entire budgetary procedure in the autumn – so a version based on the fact that now the Government is going to have woken up on these questions, is directly wrong, and I have refuted that. This is the case for action. The most important thing we can do in this situation is to strengthen businesses so that they get through tougher times, if that's what we're going to meet. There are many signs that too many industries will be tougher times. The level of interest rates is crucial and there are other factors that are essential for firms to come through more difficult times. That's our most important contribution. If that contribution is not good enough, and it will lead to an increase in unemployment, the government will follow this development closely and see if we have the means needed if people have to leave businesses and enter unemployment. The government has said that it will follow closely all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e135	It will be a follow-up question to – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e138	It is with increasing amazement that I hear from the Council of State, which says that there is considerable uncertainty in the estimates for unemployment next year. The only people who are now uncertain that unemployment will rise are the Norwegian Government. Since the submission of the national budget on 5 October, so far the Norwegian Bank, Handelsbanken, Kreditskassen, OECD, Statistische centralbureau, Arbeitsdirektoratet, all trade associations in construction and civil engineering, etc. to say that we will have an increasing unemployment rate. And as if that wasn't enough, today's inflation report came from Norway's Bank, where it is said on page 27: «... but we expect a clear increase in unemployment through 1999». This means that now all qualified environments have stated that the Government's estimate in the national budget is wrong. We can understand that, because it was presented on 5 October. But then it is strange that the government is still standing firm on forecasts that everyone else thinks are wrong. My question to the Council of State is as follows: Will the Council of State take the initiative to enter the Grand Duchy immediately in the new year and explain the new forecasts and how the Government intends to meet the situation of increased unemployment as early as the first quarter of next year?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e148	Of course, the government will continuously assess the need to get to the Stortinget and inform about it, if you have new information or knowledge that is necessary to bring to the Stortinget. But I would also like to say that it is underlined by everyone who participates in this, that there is great uncertainty about this development, and it also expresses the Government. I said in my quote instead that the opposition's perhaps foremost fiscal politician, although he is not active today, Jens Stoltenberg, says: «The second is whether we are knowingly faced with new leave. Well, no one knows for sure." So it's probably a lot more than the government that thinks it's right in this situation to stress that there's uncertainty in development. But that doesn't mean we don't take this seriously and follow it continuously.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e158	It will be a follow-up question to – Sylvia Brustad.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e161	One must then note that the government chooses to take the chance, despite the fact that so to speak, all the trade unions find that there will be increasing unemployment next year. We have also heard from the Minister of Finance in the debate on the financial situation that unemployment was not going to increase. Morten Lund of the Senterpartiet said that the Workers' Party talked about unemployment. And then to all the over-measures, the government halves the labour market measures for next year, at a time when everyone, except the government, clearly sees that there is an imminent risk of increased unemployment. I have to ask if the government really believes that it is young women, unskilled women and foreign speakers who have to pay the bill in order for those who are best placed here in the country to get better, that they don't get a job, but instead lose the job. If the government thought that there was uncertainty, if it took the signals seriously, it would have had the opportunity a week ago to have done something about the labour market measures, but they are more than halved.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e168	I would like to stress that this autumn we have seen the first month of the 1990s with unemployment below 50,000. That's good. We have seen a slight increase in unemployment in months to come. As I have said in previous answers, there is considerable uncertainty in the future development, but the most important job is to ensure that people can keep their regular jobs. We have explained why in a tight fiscal arrangement that allows interest rates to fall, and we hope and believe that this will happen beyond 1999. It is the most important thing to prevent enterprises from breaking up. If increased measures are needed to meet unemployment if people have to leave businesses, the government has an ongoing preparedness for it. But the crucial thing must be – and I think the Workers' Party should also focus on – how we can now ensure that businesses come through difficult times, if that is what we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e173	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e176	My question goes to the Minister of Health. Increased treatment capacity, shorter lay time at our hospitals and inadequate care facilities in the municipalities are now on the loose on human dignity, especially in relation to elderly patients. This situation also leads to an increasing number of cleaning operations. A recent study of so-called pre-treated patients in Ullevål Hospital showed that only 5 out of 55 patients could be sent home. The others still needed intensive care and care. Many of them were sent home to free the beds. What does the Minister of Health think we can do jointly with this serious problem?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e183	What the representative Alvheim now addresses is a major challenge both for the care and healthcare sectors. The increasing number of elderly people in the coming years will push the health care system further beyond what it does today. For this reason, it is important to implement the commitment to care in the care sector contained in the Stortingen decision to step up care for the elderly. This is the key prerequisite for tackling this problem — in addition to increasing treatment activity in hospitals, in fact beyond our own forecasts. A concrete tool that we will now use to improve the interaction between municipalities and hospitals in the repatriation of patients who need follow-up in the municipality is, first of all, a regulation on such cooperation, where pressure is put on the municipalities to provide a proper offer – if not, it will have financial consequences. The second is the proposal promoted under the Patient Rights Act, which is currently in the UK for treatment, where municipalities are given an obligation to make individual plans for patients with long-term and complex treatment needs.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e190	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. It's all right with plans, but this is an emergency situation that we're now experiencing all over the country. The director of Ullevål Hospital has found the conditions so serious that he is going to set up his own hospital hospital department. In the case of the elderly and the elderly package, we record – and I do so with great regret – that most municipalities give priority to nursing homes rather than health care places, so that they actually have fewer sick homes, which were supposed to take care of the interests of these patients. Could it be possible within the current rules and laws to oblige municipalities to pay for the necessary hospital facilities that hospitals find to provide patients with the best possible care until they can be received in the municipality in a proper manner, as Ullevål has now done?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e197	The main strategy of this interaction between municipalities and hospitals must be cooperation. The regulation that will now be adopted, based on changes in the law adopted by the Stortinget earlier this year, will provide an opportunity for hospitals and county councils to charge for patients who have been strictly treated in the hospital but who, for various reasons, are unable to accept, for example: because they have no room at the moment. It will provide a basis for the type of solutions that the representative of Alvheim here aims to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e203	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e206	I want to ask a question to the Council of State Høybråten. For the treatment of St.meld. No 25 for 1996-97, Transparency and fullness — On mental illness and the provision of services, a majority in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, consisting of the Right and the Workers' Party, argued that the State Centre for Child and Youth Psychiatrics should be transferred from the State to the Municipality of Oslo. The majority expressed: ‘The majority agree that it is now right that all state resources should be concentrated on expanding the services close to where children and young people live.’ It should therefore mean that this transfer would result in strengthening the offer of child and youth psychiatry to children and young people in Oslo. It is now reported by the institution that the City Council has agreed that a number of places related to the former State Centre for Child and Youth Psychiatry will be sold by the Municipality of Oslo to other counties. This means that one does not necessarily receive a strengthening in relation to the municipality of Oslo, and that the institution is used as a sales object to other counties. What is the Højbråtsen's view of choosing such an approach? Is it understood when the transfer is now taking place?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e220	The transfer of the State Centre for Child and Youth Psychiatry to the Municipality of Oslo to which the representative Ballo refers has been adopted by the Stortinget on a number of premises. One of the premises was that during a transitional period sufficient capacity should be provided to enable patients from other parts of the country to continue to receive treatment at the State Centre for Paediatric Psychiatry. And it was, as far as I recall, Storting's main concern that the rest of the country would be harmed by such a transfer. As far as I recall, it was provided that a minimum of six seats would be reserved for this. If the Municipality of Oslo wants to offer more places to the rest of the country, it must be assumed that it is based on an assessment of Oslo's own needs at the moment. Of course, we will have a dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo insofar as they do not follow up the agreement, but so far I have no indication that that is what is happening.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e227	Based on the commentaries that have arrived, there are 30 places – perhaps more – to be sold out. Does the Council of State see a ceiling for the number of seats, so that it is gradually decomposed and most of the places used by the Municipality of Oslo? Where will the Council of State possibly put the limit here?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e232	In the agreement that has been concluded, there is a limit to the place where the Municipality of Oslo can offer the rest of the country, given the concern of Stortingen that such a transfer to the Municipality of Oslo would lead to the fact that during a transitional period the rest of the country would not be able to avail itself of a necessary capacity at the State Centre for Child and Youth Psychiatry. It is not, either on the part of Stortinget or in the agreement, set any ceiling that provides the basis for following up that particular point with the Municipality of Oslo. I assume that the authorities responsible for the Municipality of Oslo primarily look at the care of their citizens' needs, and insofar as they believe that there is a basis for making spaces available to the rest of the country, I will be withholding intervention. And the agreement doesn't provide a direct basis for that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e242	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e245	I will return to the Minister of Industry. In his first reply today, the Minister of Industry gave the impression that he denied the Prime Minister's statement that unemployment will increase next year. I can't believe that that's the basis, because the government's own forecasts show it very clearly that the unemployment rate will increase next year. It's as simple as saying the following: the last recorded AKU unemployment this year is 2.8 pst. The government's very prudent forecast indicates that next year's average unemployment will be 3.2 pst. The availability must then necessarily increase in order for the average to reach such a high level in a year. So I allow myself to ask the Minister of Industry what is his actual basis in the Government's own figures to dement the Prime Minister's very cautious statement that unemployment will increase somewhat next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e252	I can't see I've denied the Prime Minister's statement. I referred to the Prime Minister's statement, where in the financial debate he indicated that there is considerable uncertainty about these estimates in the future, and said that the Government has this under constant observation. That's what I expressed, as I can see it, and that's also the background for the answer I gave.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e260	I want to make a new attempt, not to explain what is happening in the Government – I understand that is an impossibility when you ask Sponheim – but what does the Minister of Industry think about unemployment next year? The introduction to the Prime Minister’s statements in the NRK news was as follows: ‘For the first time, Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik says that the government is now seeing that there is a risk of higher unemployment next year.’ Does the State Council Sponheim mean anything else? In this case, what is the basis of the Government's own figures for the Minister of Economic Affairs' own opinion on this, which is neither consistent with the figures in the national budget nor with the statements of the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e270	The Minister of Economic Affairs does not have his own opinion on this. The Minister of Industry has expressed the uncertainty surrounding the situation and that there is no basis for making assessments other than those made by the Government in the national budget. I think everyone should take inwards that there is a great deal of uncertainty in the estimates of this possible economic breakdown we are in – we see industries that now warn that they are going to need fewer added forwards, but also industries that indicate that they obviously have considerable rigour or difficulty in obtaining labour. And at a time of such uncertainty, it is right to express that we will follow developments closely.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e275	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e279	I'll be allowed to ask questions to the Minister of Industry. The government's forecasts for the 1999 unemployment figures have expired, even before Christmas is called in – even the Prime Minister has admitted it. It now appears that another decisive premise in the 1999 national budget is also failing, namely the development of the krone price. The government assumes that the exchange rate is to be returned to the initial rental before the end of the year. In the inflation report published today by the Bank of Norway, estimates are that the exchange rate has returned to the initial rental during the first six months of the following year. This means that we have to imagine living at a high interest rate much further into 1999 than foreseen. Then my question is: what are the business ministers making of this situation in relation to Norwegian business? How does the Council of State assess this situation, and how will a sustained high level of interest rate impact on our businesses and Norwegian jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e286	Firstly, I would like to stress that there is no basis whatsoever for saying this as is said here, that the Government's unemployment figures have expired. I would like to emphasise again that there is uncertainty about this in this situation and that it is being considered on an ongoing basis. Then there are issues about the exchange rates and interest rates, which in themselves are well under the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. It is clear that the crucial thing here is that we have now managed to deliver a budget, a fiscal arrangement, which is in a way the national contribution we can make in this situation in order to reduce interest rates. We see that there is a great deal of turbulence around the price of the crown by day, but we have expectations that this will be able to relax, and that the possibility of getting the interest down will be present beyond the New Year. But we are all aware that here we are «sacrifice» for quite strong external forces, where the oil price is quite crucial. There is no doubt that the rest of the world is looking at Norway through oil glasses — much more clearly than we may be aware of, or will see for ourselves — and that means that there seems to be a very close link between the oil price and the price of the crown and the perception that the rest of the world must have of investing and investing in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e293	I have not asked the Minister of Industry to explain the level of the krone price, but to assess how a high interest rate is charged to Norwegian businesses in 1999. In a previous answer, the Minister of Industry put great emphasis on how important it was that Norwegian businesses could get through the difficult time we have ahead of us, and in today's edition of Dagbladet, the head of the Norwegian Business Federation, says that he sees drastic changes in the company's investments and employment. What will be the Minister of Industry's contribution to the best way of getting business through this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e300	Firstly, I share the concern about the effect that a high level of interest will have on businesses. Obviously, a level of interest that is 3-4-5 pst. higher than competitors, giving a competitive disadvantage that we both believe and hope will not last long beyond 1999. But of course, this raises uncertainty. The most important thing we can do on the policy side is to conduct a fiscal policy and have an economic structure that allows the level of interest to be reduced. In addition, the Government will continue to follow the situation, and if it becomes necessary during 1999 to return to measures that will stimulate enterprises, the Government will consider as part of a situation of increasing unemployment: how can we ensure that people do not become unemployed but remain in enterprises? That's what we want to do first and foremost.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e307	Kristin Halvorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e310	This I must say is a rather embarrassing view. It is true, as State Council Sponheim says, that there is uncertainty about the estimate of unemployment next year. But there's uncertainty about how much it's going to increase, there's not much uncertainty in any of the economic environments that's now forecast for next year, that unemployment is going to increase. Then the question is, what kind of preparedness is there in the government, when unemployment is going to increase next year? Then we can't have a government that just leans back and says it's uncertainty, and that far out in May-June finds out that unemployment is increasing, and then intends to initiate measures, which might start to work out in September. At this time, the government must already make contingency plans which are such that it is possible to initiate action immediately when it is seen that unemployment is increasing. The biggest waste we can have is that construction workers are now out of work while we need housing, or that workers are out of work while we need investment in the railway. What kind of readiness does the Government have?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e317	Time's up. The President would point out that the main issue was interest rate developments and not unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e322	But this is closely related.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e327	The president knows it's related.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e330	There will be variations around the same theme. I would like to stress that we have now adopted a budget that has in many areas laid down posts and the level of action, and it remains until the Government has had to invite the Stortinge to take a different decision. But the government follows the situation, and I think that several more should express uncertainty about where we are in a cyclical development. We get the warnings that the representative Halvorsen here is expressing, in terms of construction and construction. It remains to be seen whether there will be development. For this reason, the Stortinget did not choose to implement the cyclical charge that was in readiness, for example, and this is also linked to interest rate developments. I can only say that this is an ongoing assessment of the Government, and if it is necessary to come back to Stortinget with proposals, it will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e337	Jens Stoltenberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e341	The Minister of Economic Affairs said in his first reply to the representative Solberg that the Government's unemployment figures had not expired, when she asked about the importance of the increase in interest rates for employment in Norway. What's the situation, is that it's very unclear what kind of unemployment figures the government is based on, because as late as the finance debate, the finance minister unequivocally states that the government doesn't expect any increase in unemployment. The Minister of Finance even says that ‘it is not right that we now have an increasing unemployment rate ahead of us’. And then the Prime Minister comes later and creates confusion about what the government actually thinks. The problem isn't just what the government thinks and doesn't believe, the problem is that it sets up the economic policy that unemployment should still go down and be low, while more and more people think it's going to go up. Then the government again makes a serious misassessment of the economic situation. It does not take uncertainty inwards and bases economic policy on continued low unemployment and builds on the readiness to meet increasing unemployment. It's a good Norwegian saying...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e350	This question was also, as far as the President could understand, about something other than the main device on the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e353	It is the government’s clear view – and I have actually seen it as a broad support in the Storting – that the most important thing we can do in this situation is deliver a tight budget that still helps to slow down or hold back total demand in the country, of fear of an increasing price. If it turns out that the economic situation is such that one should have had a lower level of budgetary rigour, I think both the representative Stoltenberg and the rest of the big business know that it is a lot easier to get into the economy than to have to do a tightening later in the year. And it is a government task to follow this continuously and come back to Stortinget when it is necessary to take action, and of course the Government will do so on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e360	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e363	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. The government added to its draft budget an increase in the electricity charge of 2.5 cents. This was in addition to the notified increased transfer costs of 40 p.m. and would have hit those who have the least, minimum pensioners and others who, thanks to the weak economy, often live in attractive houses and apartments. Fortunately, we have now stopped the increase in electricity charges in the budget compromise, but there is still reason to ask whether the proposed increases in electricity prices were intended only to increase public revenue to balance the budget, or whether this was part of the Government’s strategy to limit electricity consumption by means of the price mechanism.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e372	It is true that the Government of the State budget proposed a balanced increase in both the electricity charge and the mineral oil and fuel oil charge, which could also affect electricity consumption. I believe that the electricity charge can have an energy policy reason and can affect the consumption. How much it needs to be increased to actually affect the consumption is uncertain. It is possible that one should have discussed how an increase should be made in order to influence consumption. Then I think first of all about someone, for example. should have a higher impact on maximum consumption than normal consumption. It is a thought that has been discussed in the past in the context of charging policy. The government did not agree with the Stortingen tax proposals, and it is not included in the budgetary agreement. For this reason, the government will continue to consider, not necessarily a unilateral increase in the electricity charge, but, in relation to the Energy Law Committee’s investigation, an investigation into a progressive use of electricity charges.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e379	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I find interesting, not least on the basis of the fact that the oil company Statoil, where the Council of State is a general assembly, has now also thrown itself into the electricity market and almost offers electricity at dumped prices in order to gain greater market shares. Does the Council of State consider it a reasonable use of public crowns to subsidise cheap electricity, all the time the Government's objective is to reduce consumption and use the pricing mechanism deliberately to achieve this objective?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e384	With regard to Statoil's involvement in the energy market and the flow side, Statoil's commercial involvement and freedom of action in relation to government and accumulation lie within Statoil's business. So from a political point of view, I have no idea how Statoil is doing its business. In this way they must have the same freedom of action as any other private operator.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e389	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e392	I want to ask questions to the Minister of Industry. In my opinion, it has now emerged that the Government is changing its assessment of two key economic policy assumptions. One is that the government no longer believes that the krone price is back to a normal level before Christmas, so that the interest rates soon after normalize. The second is that the government no longer believes that unemployment is going to fall through 1999. There are two fundamental prerequisites for economic policy that the Minister of Industry has today confirmed that one no longer believes in. And then the government says that it will review the situation continuously and possibly come back with an adjusted approach to the revised national budget, which can be adopted in June, to then come into force from the summer/harvest. The question is whether it is responsible to wait so long to adjust economic policy, when two of the main assumptions are obviously not valid, even before the budget has started to operate. There is a good Norwegian saying: Better lead us than soon, and the question is what the government chooses.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e403	First of all, the two news that has come today. We're writing today on December 16, and we saw it was crowned yesterday, when the ECU index was 116, so I guess it shouldn't be so hard to predict that it won't be back in a normal rental, between 103 and 105, before Christmas. I don't think it's so problematic to see it, so I think that news maybe we're going to dampen something. That's probably a confession we need to see in our eyes. However, we have reason to believe and hope that developments will move in a better direction in the new year, since we have now actually adopted a tight fiscal regime for next year. I have not expressed my belief in increased unemployment until next year. I definitely didn't say that. What I think I've said quite many times now is that there's a lot of uncertainty about these figures, and that the uncertainty is so great that the government doesn't have the basis today to reconsider the conditions that lie in the national budget. But precisely because there's so much uncertainty about the numbers and about exactly where we're in such an economic crisis, it's absolutely necessary for the government to have an ongoing preparedness. I would like to stress what I said at the end of my previous reply to the representative Stoltenberg, that in such a situation it must be right to adopt a tight budget, so as to assess continuously whether there is a basis in the economy to get rid of anything. I think it's a lot harder to do the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e411	I fully agree with the Minister of Industry that it is very wise for the Government to have ongoing preparedness for increasing unemployment. The problem is that that preparedness has been dramatically reduced. The measures are more than halved in relation to the level this year, and that is precisely because you do not have the necessary preparedness. I think everyone understands that it is right to reduce labour market measures in the year when unemployment falls, but the problem is that next year's unemployment can rise. Nevertheless, the Government has opted more than to halve preparedness in the form of reduced labour market measures. The problem is that when we are facing a cyclical shift, things other than the budgetary balance sheet are perhaps the most important governance tools. It is not only the budgetary balance that determines whether we are doing well in economic policy, but it is also the instruments. These measures may be the most important and reliable instrument we have, and this measure has been dramatically reduced. The question is whether it is responsible, when the uncertainty is as great as the government itself now underlines.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e418	The State budget for 1999 has now been adopted at the level desired by the majority of the population, and beyond that, the Government will have an ongoing assessment and, by agreement, will, of course, have the necessary conferences with the contracting partners to the extent that it becomes appropriate to change the financial framework. It is the government's duty and task to do. Otherwise, I would like to stress, and I think that the representative Stoltenberg agrees with me, that more important than notifying arrangements for people who may have to leave their ordinary jobs is now to prevent people from actually leaving their businesses and going to different places of action. That's what matters. We now see that a higher level of interest rates and perhaps a development in the market situation etc. in the absence of problems for some enterprises. It is therefore more essential to ensure that businesses can get through difficult times and prevent unemployment than to initiate measures that are necessary only when unemployment has to occur. If that happens, the government will have an ongoing preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e425	Øystein Djupedal – follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e428	Let me follow up Stoltenberg's question. When the Council of State says that there is no basis for calculations other than those contained in the national budget, it is with respect to notifying the plain hesitation. All the calculations made after the submission of the State budget have shown other things. In particular, the report from Norway’s Bank today shows that both the interest rate estimate, the price estimate, the oil price estimate, the investment estimate and the unemployment estimate in the national budget are incorrect. And it's natural that it's wrong, because the government budget was presented on October 5. Now we have come a long way in December, and the qualified economic environments both in Norway and abroad point out that the assumption of the national budget is wrong. Then it is incomprehensible to me how a state council can defend a document that everyone knows is past and expired. And the question that many here have been concerned about is this: If it is true, as all qualified environments say, that we are getting more unemployment and greater unrest in the Norwegian labour market to next year, why can't the government come to the Stortinget in January/February and say that they have new forecasts, and that action must be taken to ensure that unemployment does not increase? That is the challenge of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e433	The word 'deaf' is not considered to be a parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e436	I've gradually begun to get a certain sense of having answered these questions now, but there's different levels of ability to innovate in the answer, obviously, so I'll again stress that in a very difficult situation, where there's great uncertainty about the cyclical situation, where there's different messages – and it's not like there's unique messages with many exclusivity signs, all of us stress that here's the uncertainty, and we also get messages from different industries that tell about very different developments – it's a government's duty to have a high level of preparedness around this, and there's of course no performance related to numbers. If it is necessary and right to return to the Storting with other figures and measures, the Government will of course do so. But there's no basis for that, as the situation is per. today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e441	Jan Johnsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e444	We have heard that the Minister of Finance thought that unemployment would go down, we have heard that the Prime Minister has said that it would go up, and the Minister of Industry is now saying that he has no opinion on this matter. On the other hand, he believes that action should be taken for businesses if this leave is to rise. When we were able to get one for the loose economy in Norway, the government went out with the short-term tax – it could expect the companies if it became too loose. My question will then be: What individual measures does the Government have that it can put into action if there is an increase in unemployment, which everyone expects from the signals that are, and can we get it done now?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e451	What the government has done is to get a majority for a tight budget, which is the necessary fiscal intervention to reduce interest rates in 1999. It's the most important contribution we can make today, and it's also the most important contribution to decorating the final result, or making more robust businesses if you like, in 1999. It is the main contribution to preventing unemployment. Then the government will consider continuously, as I have said sometimes, the need to come back to the Storting with other grips. And I can't or would like to give any signals about what the content of it might be today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e456	The latest follow-up questions are from Dag Terje Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e459	There is no disagreement about the last thing Sponheim State Council said, that the most important contribution to preventing people from falling into unemployment is to reduce interest rates. This is referred to in this main question, and you've been up to it in the past, but what's unclear is what the Government thinks and believes about how it will evolve? Now Sponheim said that the Stortinget decided the budget with the tightening level that Stortinget thought was right. It would then be interesting to hear whether the government believes that the tightening level was right, for it was lower than the government suggested, but on the other hand it was the government that suggested that it should be lower. I ask on the basis that Sponheim just after the state budget was presented, in fact, said that if the government gets through for this budget with the tightness that is now there, the interest is going to go down, I think it was 3 pst. which was said, during the spring. And when the Council of State Sponheim...
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e467	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e470	Once again, the bulk of the population has actually adopted a budget with a budget of around 8 billion kroner. The government parties were part of that majority, and that, of course, means that is the level that the government has also considered to be the right one. Of course it's like this. It is true that, in the context of the presentation of the national budget, I referred to the fact that, according to forecasts in the national budget – and it was referred to in a slump how brokers judged it – such a tight budget would provide the basis for a reduction in interest rates during 1999 on the order of magnitude mentioned. There are not numbers that I made up or promised, but that actually pointed to a point in the national budget where the market already seemed to pre-empt that kind of drop in interest rates, if we were able to get a tight enough budget. A tight enough budget has now been provided, and then it is important that we believe that this will work beyond 1999, and I think that there is indeed reason to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e477	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e480	I have a question for the Minister of Health. The representative Alvheim was previously in the Questionnaire concerned that many elderly people stay in hospital after they have completed their treatment. I am also concerned that many elderly people who have severe disorders, but who are easy to do with, do not get into the hospital in time. I am thinking in particular of all those who suffer from cataracts, which will lead to blindness if it is not treated within a reasonable time. Now it turns out, despite the fact that an operation for gray star only takes 15 minutes, that in many states there is a waiting time of about a year and a half, and there are over 16 000, and especially older, waiting to have that operation carried out. There has been a sample of work that has proposed setting up its own outpatient clinics in hospitals, that hospital premises and equipment should be used in the evening and that private services should be purchased to remedy this. Does the Minister for Health agree that these are good measures?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e489	Yes, the Minister of Health agrees that there is an absolute need for the hospital owners, the county authorities, to focus on how to reduce the unacceptable long waiting times in the case of grey star operations. The measures to which the representative Høegh referred may be used by the county councils and the hospital owner, if they so wish. I actually agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e494	Here we are at another basic problem in the Norwegian health care system, and it is that the Minister of Health only says yes and sends the ball over to the county municipalities. Now this is not a new problem, and the measures are not new and revolutionary either, but it turns out that it is not being done. Then the question of whether the Minister of Health does not feel a responsibility to do something more active than just play the ball over to the county councils to get this work started. Our hospitals have gradually become large and complicated units. There's a lot of immediate help, there's meetings and administration that take time away from patient-oriented treatment. Is the Minister of Health willing to consider whether it may be reasonable to imagine a division of labour between public hospitals and public or private clinics outside hospitals, which could take the queues away in such really simple areas, but which have serious consequences for those waiting, for example. on gray star operations?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e503	I do not accept the criticism that this minister of health refers to the county councils only when health problems are raised. The government has an active relationship with the challenges we face just within the area that the representative Höegh now mentions, the organisation of services, the division of labour between the different businesses, also the division of labour in relation to the private services we have in the specialist health service. We will actively use the channels we have to produce better forms of organisation, a clearer distinction between planned activities like this, and the acute activities, which often override the planned activities, and a better division of labour between units. It is included among others. the health plans.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e510	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e513	My question goes to Minister of Oil and Energy Arnstad. Tinfos Jernverk A/S Øye Smelteverk has decided to expand its business and invest another 390 million. kr in a new melting furnace subject to the allocation of power. Unfortunately, the Council of State has not been able to give the company any positive feedback on the application for power within the existing industrial power plant regime, known as 104. This is a mechanism for the allocation of power to new activities adopted by the Storting. Now the government doesn't follow this up. My question to the Council of State will therefore be: On what formal basis has the Government chosen to terminate the processing of applications for power allocation within a Government of the Grand Duchy?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e520	The question may indicate that the representative Blattmann believes that the Government and the Council of State have decided the Tinfos case in the sense that we have rejected it. That's not right. The application for a new power for Tinfos Jernverk A/S Øye Smelteverk has not been rejected or granted. What has been stated on my part is that it will not be possible to decide the case before Christmas, and that it will not be possible – it is not possible in any case – to give any prior confirmation of any support. In addition, I have stated that the normal procedure for this type of case could mean that this particular case should be seen in the context of the presentation of a new proposal for an industrial power regime, and that it would be natural to leave this individual case under consideration in parallel with the new industrial power regime.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e529	This whole morning we talked about the need for investment, so we could secure 150 annual works during the construction period for this construction and in connection with the new investments and 20 new jobs in the districts. Nevertheless, the Government chooses not to take its electricity allocation position. I must again stress that the power that the Government has given to power after the 104 regime is still at hand. And I ask the question again: On what formal basis can the Government terminate the processing of the application for power allocation within a regime adopted by the Stortinge?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e537	To refer to my first answer, we have not completed the examination of this case. I have stated, both to the representative Blattmann and to the public, that this matter cannot be settled before Christmas, and that it is not possible for me to give any prior commitment to support until one has thoroughly addressed the matter in a maritime manner, as the ministry does in all cases of this kind. These are work-intensive issues, as it turns out — if you look at treatment from 1994 to today — has taken quite a while. We will certainly submit this matter to the same treatment as any other application and according to the guidelines laid down by the Stortinge in the 104 regime. However, it also suggests that the procedure period may be extended until a new industrial power regime has been submitted. And my simple answer so far – because I see it as a matter of great importance – is that it has not been rejected, but it is also not possible for me to give any prior commitment to support in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e544	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e547	I want to ask the Minister of Industry a question, and it's because it's becoming more and more clear to me that in terms of unemployment, the Government and the Swedish Government have very different policies. The Council of State has said several times today that the most important thing to do now in Norwegian economic policy is to tighten up fiscal policy and to reduce activity in the economy. In Norwegian, this means increased leave. The national budget, as the Council of State has pointed out several times today, states: «A major problem in the mainland economy is the strong pressure in the labour market. Reduced labour market pressure is a necessary prerequisite for the return of wage and cost growth to the level of our trading partners.» In my ears, this is a desire for increased leave. And I also realized that it was the government's wish when it tightened up as much as it did, that the unemployment had to increase. Can the Council of States confirm that there is a correct interpretation of this quotation?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e561	The government definitely does not want increased unemployment, but this is one of the difficult balances in economic governance, preventing inflation and preventing increased unemployment, and we must be able to say that so far in the life of this government we have been able to balance this very well. During the fall, we saw the lowest unemployment rates in Norway in the 1990s, and we are still able to keep low inflation. That's what's important. If inflation were to take off, e.g. by the fact that we do not have a tight enough fiscal framework, the danger of unemployment taking off would also be present quite quickly. It is the difficult balance sheet, and that balance sheet continues to be prepared by the Government. There is broad support in the Stortinget now for a tight fiscal stance. It's only SV that is getting heavy on the outside of this, which doesn't think it's necessary to have a tight budget in this uncertain situation of economic development.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e568	I don't think SV is all alone about it. Among other things, I can show that when the Central Statistical Bureau presented its forecasts where they found a much higher level of unemployment than the Government does, they said that they did not think that anyone should complain that the Storting watered out the tightening up of the Government, because, without it, the prognosis of unemployment had become higher. Once again, I have to ask the Council of State an elementary socio-economic question: isn't it that when you tighten up and dampen the activity of the economy, as the Government says it will, you can't be sure that interest is going to fall, but you're absolutely sure that unemployment is going to increase?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e575	The crucial thing in a situation where the Storting and the Government want a tight economic environment is just to dampen the overall demand, take activity out of the economy to avoid price rise. What can lead to a long-term high interest rate in Norway is that we get inflation, and that is to avoid such a trend that it is necessary to enter the next year with a tight budget. If it should turn out, and it has also been said sometimes before today, that the economic development beyond the year will be such that it would be right to release something more, as SV has said, yes, the government will continuously consider it. However, it is much easier – and it is important to emphasise – to adopt a tight budget and then get into the economy if necessary, than to do the opposite. I think everyone should agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e582	Then we go to the last main question, from Steinar Bastesen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e585	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy. Oil protection has always been of concern to the coastal population. On 3 November, the oil protection equipment on the Norne ship was to be tested after Statoil had applied for the demobilisation of the ship which was to carry out oil bilge removals following the imposition of State pollution control directives. I have asked questions about this earlier in the ordinary Question Time, but my question now is whether it is such that Statoil, for which the minister is responsible, does not provide more preparedness than what they are instructed to do from the State pollution authorities, including the assessment of the tensile force of oil lances.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e592	The general question of oil protection preparedness and the relationship with State pollution control is a question that will be answered later today, which is not within my department but under the ministry of the Minister for the Environment. In general, it is possible for me to say that Statoil, like any other oil company, should be loyal to all the guidelines and directives given, whether it be from the Oil Directorate, the State Pollution Control Agency or other authorities. In addition, they have a responsibility, as any actor on a Norwegian base, to be sure that they behave in a sound and reasonable manner in their daily activities.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e597	It does not testify to much responsibility when Statoil seeks to remove the towing vessel that they had stationed there, and replace it with a 22-foot Malo tugboat. Thus, because they have not been ordered to do so by the State’s pollution authorities, the Council of State and Statoil consider it sufficient to have a boat searching in good weather!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e602	It is difficult for me to go into the specific matter, because it is a matter that is assessed by a completely different authority body from that of the Ministry of Oil and Energy and is responsible for it. Therefore, it is almost impossible for me to assess whether it is appropriate to send the application or not, but it will be possible for the State pollution control body to properly assess it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e608	The President has a certain understanding that the Council of State does not have detailed insight into this matter. The time for the oral Question Time is over, and we're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e615	In view of the large number of questions to be answered, the President considers that she has to be informed by virtue of Paragraph 53 of the Rules of Procedure. The last three paragraphs have decided that only one supplementary question will arise after the main question has been answered. This is considered necessary for the completion of the current map within the regulatory time of the morning meeting. Furthermore, the President will announce that there will be a number of changes in the set-up of the question list and will refer in this context to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 10, from the representative Karin Andersen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister of Church, Education and Research, this question is moved and answered in front of question 20, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 21, from the representative Inger Stolt-Nielsen to the Minister for the Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister of Justice who will direct him. Questions 23 and 24, from the representatives of Inger Lise Husøy and Kjellaug Nakkim respectively to the Minister of Defence, are relocated and answered at the request of the Council of State in response to question 5. Question 32, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Health, has been withdrawn. Questions 37 and 38, from the representatives Trond Helleland and Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Oil and Energy respectively, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment, who will address them.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e637	I will ask this question to the Minister for Culture: ‘According to several media reviews, Statsbyggen appears to be in the process of icing up the investigation work related to the Tullinleukka project. What will the Government do to prevent further suspension and to ensure continued progress in the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e646	For the design of the Tullin loop, 1 million has been allocated. kr from the Ministry of Culture's budget and the same amount from the Ministry of Church, Education and Research's budget. State-building is on behalf of the two departments building the project. Landsbygden sent on 26 February d.o.b. proposals for impact assessment programme for the Municipality of Oslo. This has been dealt with by the Municipality of Oslo, as in a letter dated 7 December. asked Statsbygg to revise certain points of the programme. The revised investigation programme shall be sent to the Ministry of the Environment for its opinion and to the planning authorities for approval. State buildings will, as provided for, revise the programme in order to ensure progress in the approval process. The impact assessment may then be started. A wide range of cultural institutions in Oslo and the rest of the country need investment for conversion or new construction. Therefore, when the outcome of the impact assessment is available, it is necessary to assess this construction project in the context of the overall need for provisions for cultural buildings in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e658	I thank the Council of State for a positive response. I understood the Council of State that she will contribute to ensuring that the departments concerned oblige State Building to carry out impact assessments under the provisions of the Planning and Building Act. I hope the minister can confirm that I understood this correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e663	As I said in my answer, there's a process going on where State Building is a builder. After the information I have received, whether the programme is approved, an impact assessment will be carried out with hearings and public reviews, and it will take one to one and a half years. So the question is, what do you do next, about the project that won the architectural competition, that's the point. I would also like to clarify what I said in my first reply to the representative, that we need to look at all the major construction projects in Oslo – in the nation, but also especially in Oslo – to see how we can put this in a sensible way. I am not in doubt about the need for Tullinløkka, but I also have to report that there are so many and large construction projects going on in this area here in the city that we have to look at the priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e671	I would like to ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: ‘The management of the NRK will defer the launch of its own news broadcasts on TV from NRK Østfold for the third time. NRK’s management has promised several times that NRK Østfold will be separated from NRK 4 and receive its own news broadcasts. Licensing charges are constantly being increased in order to establish district television, by 1996 and 1997. What will the Council of State do according to the clear assumptions given by the Grand Duchy in terms of district broadcasts in general, and for Eastfold in particular?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e680	The issue raised by the representative, Mr Stang, is addressed to Norwegian National Broadcasting in another context. The NRK states that it has been necessary to postpone the start-up of the district broadcasts with television in Eastfold, among others. because the extension was delayed due to the presence of ancient memories in the excavation works. Furthermore, the NRK states that in 1998 the company found it appropriate to prioritise national measures. Finally, the NRK discloses that 77 pst. viewers will be able to take in the county broadcast, while the rest of the viewers will need to re-establish the antenna and re-set the television set. This does not find the NRK satisfactory and believes that it will be necessary to spend some more time to find better solutions if possible. The NRC assumes that there will be a clarification in 2000. In its budgetary position in 1997, a majority of the Committee stated that priority should be given to regional television broadcasting. Ostfold was particularly mentioned in the 1997 review of the broadcasting fee by the Committee setting. On this basis, I would like to contact Norwegian National Broadcasting to see if it is possible to realize the district broadcasts with television in Eastfold faster than the current plans of the NRK.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e691	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The last part seems very positive for NRK Østfold’s part. It is probably right that you had some old-fashioned findings around the area, but the building stock and the contents are already in place, and the Stortinge assumption was that you should start the construction and finish the work within a certain time, and the shipments were to start by the year 2000. I would also like to refer to the District Programme Council, which asks the Council of State to ensure that the broadcasts can be started by the year 2000, and I hope that is also the condition of the Council of State that this really will be the case, especially in the interests of the licensee who have paid the additional licence fee in order for this to become a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e696	As I said in my answer, I would like to address this with the NRK in order to get a faster solution if possible than is now possible. I would just like to comment on one element of that representative's point, namely the assumptions of the Storting. It is true that in the context of the increase in the 1997 licence fee, attention was paid to the need for the development of district offices and, in particular, Eastfold was mentioned, but it is not such that a committee comment can be interpreted as a decision in the Stortinget. So this is a request that we are of course taking seriously, and that I am going to try to follow up to the best of my ability, but at the same time I think the NRC must ensure the whole and the national measures they put up with. I will go back to the NRK with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e704	I will allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture: ‘The Radio has been required by the Ministry of Culture to give the Mission Radio Jären broadcasting time in concession area 61 which goes far beyond the mission radio before. I believe that this decision is in line with the Storting's resolutions when they deal with St.meld. No 31 [[1994-95]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e713	The size covered on 13 June 1995 that notification, which relates to ownership in close-on broadcasting. In the same meeting, the Stortinget also addressed a communication on close-to-air broadcasting, a communication on broadcasting and day-to-day press in 1993 and a Document No. 8-proposal for the dissemination of satellite television. The following proposals were made in the debate: ‘All concessional radios shall be able to send applications between 2 p.m. 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. 18.00, also in areas with only one frequency.’» The proposal was adopted by 58 votes to 47. It was the SV, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Right that secured a majority for this. In the specific case, which concerned a complaint against decisions of the State Media Administration on the allocation of broadcasting time, Jären Mission Radio was allocated broadcasting time within the period referred to in its decision. The rest of the transmission time is disposed of by the commercial radio Radio 1 Jærradio, which has much more transmission hours than the Jären Mission Radio. I therefore find that the decision of the Ministry in the appeal case is in line with the Stortingen's assumptions in the decision of 13 June 1995. The assigned transmission time to the Jären Mission Radio is the same as they were applied for, but something more than they had in the previous concession period. I do not find this problematic.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e729	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, which I think is very sad. I know of the decision that was made, but it was done in a context: The big deal was that people should be given historical rights, that is, that they should keep what they had before. What's happened here is that the Jären Mission Radio has got a big extension of the time of transmission and at quite different times of the day than they've had before. I ask again the question: Does the Council of State think this is in line with the Storting's intentions? The other question you can ask is whether the Ministry of Culture is the appeal body in such cases. After the information I have, a similar case from Radio Oslofjord has been sent back to the State Media Administration for review.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e738	I do not know the specific matter that goes back to the State Media Administration. But it is now that the State Media Administration has these matters decided, with appeal to the Ministry. So I'm not in doubt that we are making a final decision on this matter, as the system is now. With regard to the extension of Mission Radio Jären's broadcasting time, it's true that something will happen. The transmission time is Monday – Sunday at 8.30 – 9.00, Monday and Wednesday at 8.30 a.m. 5.30 p.m. - 6 p.m., Wednesday at 5.30 p.m. 7.30 a.m. to 21.00 p.m. and Thursday and Friday at 7.30 p.m. 21.00 – 21.45. As I said, it is unproblematic to have made this decision. When the two concessionaires don't agree, you have to make a balance, and I think this is a good thing in line with the Storting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e750	This question, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be raised by the representative of Grethe G. Fossum.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e753	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Children and Family the following questions: ‘The problem of violence among children and young people is a serious and growing problem. Research shows that if prevention measures are to work, they must be applied to young children, and especially to boys, as this is a particular problem for boys. The influence of kindergartens will be important, here has a trained staff qualified to deal with these kinds of problems. Quality and availability are becoming important. How does the Council of State assess the possibility of strengthening action against these groups?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e762	The government is concerned about the development of power among children and young people and makes a stronger effort to address this challenge, including: through child care, through the parental guidance programme, through child protection efforts, through the provision of youth actions in larger urban communities and through the development programme to strengthen the breeding environment. The government will stimulate a wide range of mobilization to create a better childhood and youth breeding environment – in cooperation with young people, parents, voluntary organisations, schools, kindergartens and local governance. The path to the antisocial behavior often starts early, usually in the home at the age of 4-9. In some children, such behavior is also visible before this. The preventive effort has the greatest effect when it is put in early. Measures may be to develop and strengthen the aggressive child’s ability to control, adapt and solve problems in order to reduce the social situation. Taking up and choosing are problems that many families struggle with and that parents often ask for help to handle. The Government will continue to invest in the National Parent's Guide Programme, which aims to support parents in caring for and tasking their children. The programme emphasises that competent professionals and parents should be able to participate together in the prevention of psychosocial problems and fixed patterns of interaction. Therefore, one will continue to create good meeting places that will not least allow parents to exchange secrets and discuss the assignment of their own children and young people. As part of this work, continuous training of professionals will be provided. Relevant material for parents and professionals will also be developed. It is a goal that all parents who have children and young people with problems should be provided with parental guidance tailored to the age of their children. I agree with the representative that kindergartens have an important role to play in preventing violence. As the representative is aware, the aim is for all parents who want to do so to have kindergartens for their children in 2000. In kindergartens, learning to be together and resolving conflicts can be learned without using the selected option. At the same time, they can experience how to cope with strong feelings and aggression. The framework plan for kindergarten emphasises that children should develop basic skills, such as: means that children should be able to make and maintain contact with others, and be able to take the role of others and see a matter from a number of points of view. A strong emphasis is also placed on children's active use of their bodies. This can also help to master the aggression and give him expressions that are accepted. I also think that more men in kindergarten will be good adult models for the boys. In the parental guidance programme, the developed material is adapted to the nursery. But it is also important that those who do not go to kindergarten receive this guide. This is where health care stations will be able to make an effort. I am aware that the Research Council's special educational programme has a project to develop social skills in kindergarten. Through this program, a particular light is on how staff can contribute to the development of positive patterns of interaction. I believe the result of this project may be helpful for kindergarten staff. I think we still have to follow up on this issue and see if we can find new measures or change those we have. We must do this in close cooperation with the municipalities, which will facilitate a good childhood and youth growth environment.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e777	I will be allowed to ask an additional question to the Council of State. This is not a new debate on either cash support or kindergarten, but on a serious problem such as violence. Researchers claim that a change in behavior relative to violence must be started early. They even claim that aggressive two-year-olds who do not get help to control their feelings are rejected by other children. So they're going to go into an evil circle with other aggressive and aberrant, for example. Guys. Then it is quite important to grasp them when they are as small as two years old. In connection with the cash support, parents might take these boys out of kindergarten. Does the Council of State have a strategy in addition to that of parental guidance? It is quite difficult to talk to your parents when your children are two years old and out of date. They kind of don't see the problems yet. So I want to know if the Council of State has any strategy for getting these parents and children to speak.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e784	The representative said that this was not a debate about cash support or child care, but a debate about power. I agree, but she still managed to get into it, and it was not unexpected either. First of all, there will be no need for one to force all children to go to kindergarten. If you're going to be able to have all the children under supervision, you're going to have to have babysitting in this country, and you don't want this government to go in for it. What's important is that we, both through the parental guidance program, as I said a little bit about in the answer, and not least in health centres, have an open eye on this in conversation with parents. As the representative will know, plans have been adopted to strengthen health centres with a lot of settings in the coming years. It is obvious that the conversation that those working in health centres have with parents will be important to find out if someone needs help. I think that's one of the good measures we have. In addition to all those who choose to use kindergarten – of course they also get a follow-up through kindergartens – I believe that parents themselves perceive things and can ask for help if they need it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e796	I allow myself to ask the following questions to Minister of Industry Lars Sponheim: ‘In the Firda newspaper of 24 October 1998, State Secretary Odd Hellesnes of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade states that it has been good for investment pressure in Norway that the State industrial company Hydro rather than investing in Norway invests abroad. Is this in line with the national industrial policy pursued by Regeringa Bondevik?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e805	In order to ensure Norwegian value creation and well-being in the future, we rely on Norway as an attractive country for investment and business. This is crucial for the development of strong and dynamic Norwegian business environments. The government’s industrial policy has this as its starting point. A healthy economic policy is a prerequisite for success in this. The level of interest, prices and exchange rates is one of the most important framework conditions in business and is important when making investment decisions. Economic and investment climate considerations in Norway have been central to the government’s work on a responsible government budget in the autumn. The government presented an overall strategy for industrial policy earlier this year. We have also presented our own action plan for small businesses. These submissions all support the main objective of helping Norway to become an attractive industrial and investment area. A key element of our industrial policy strategy is to facilitate Norwegian business to take advantage of the opportunities of a globalised economy. This requires, inter alia: the overall impact of industrial policy efforts on the international competitiveness of Norwegian industry. This applies in relation to both domestic and external competition. Norwegian authorities also directly support the activities of Norwegian companies in the absence of exports or outsourcing. I do not in any way ignore the fact that companies in individual cases will face a choice between bets in Norway or outside. It is not least in relation to such choices that we place great emphasis on a comprehensive industrial policy that contributes to the continued growth of enterprises in Norway. However, there is broad consensus that the total value creation in this country is best served by an active investment from Norwegian companies also in markets outside. Norwegian Hydro ASA is a multilateral company and one of Norway's largest single actors in the global economy. For the past five years, the Group has invested over 50 billion dollars. Of these, about two thirds were in Norway and on a Norwegian base. The company has 18,000 employees in Norway and 19,000 employees abroad. I do not see it as natural to comment further on the individual matter that is the basis of the article in the newspaper Firda on 24 October this year. The State's conduct as a majority shareholder in a large listed and international company by Norsk Hydro implies that the management of the company, including the management of the business activities, is governed by the Board of Directors and the Executive Director. Where appropriate, the business meeting, not the general meeting, shall decide on matters relating to significant investments or major changes in the rationalisation or conversion of operations.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e820	I have also not entered the individual company that was the basis for the answer given by State Secretary Hellesnes. That was the background to the answer that caused me to ask questions about national industrial policy. There was basically no other answer to that than that one has a policy for small and medium-sized enterprises that I perceive has gone away from medium-sized enterprises and only goes to small micro-enterprises. Then I ask: How does the State Council of Sponheim believe that he can ensure full employment when he sends out signals to managing directors, to state-owned industrial companies, that it is appropriate for Norway now that an investor out there, when one has employment problems and one has one-sided industrial workplaces that will be affected by such announcements?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e825	Norsk Hydro is an important company in Norway, and I think it's a company that we're all proud of. It is a company that has confidence both in the markets and among the minority shareholders who are in the company, with the State as a majority shareholder. It is absolutely essential that we maintain that trust, also in the relationship between the state as a majority shareholder, and the significant number of minority shareholders. Therefore, it is very important to maintain that investment decisions taken in such a company are taken on a commercial basis by the Management Board and the Executive Director. I have the greatest confidence that Norsk Hydro, as a company anchored in Norway, will take the necessary national consideration. I've experienced that in all that Hydro has done, and I'm sure they're going to do it in the future. It also shows the numbers I gave in my answer, that two-thirds of the giant investments Hydro makes in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e830	Then we're going to go to the 23 and 24.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e836	I will ask the Minister for Defence the following questions: ‘The size has decided to localise HV District 11 to Setnesmoen at Åndalsnes. This was to be done last summer. The decision to cancel was not followed up loyally, partly because the Defence Overcommander has introduced new assumptions that postpone the move to 2005. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the decisions of the Storting are followed up in loyalty?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e845	Through St. Prp. No 70 for 1994-95, it was proposed to coordinate the Army's territorial regiments and the Home Guard District Staff from 1 August 1997. The size decided to co-localise between those units where appropriate. This means that the units are placed together but remain separate departments with each of their management, stockpiles and stocks. Co-location therefore requires greater building mass than a coordinated department. This Decision substantially changed the assumptions for the organisational change in terms of costs and timing. According to the defence timetable, a new co-located organisation was to be in place by 1 January 1999, where the conditions relating to property, construction and installations were appropriate. Where new building masses had to be completed, a new organisation was to be in place during the year 2000. Assessments in the context of the implementation of the co-location show that the costs of the solution chosen are significantly higher than in the case of coordination. Calculations by local users resulted in a total investment need of 175 to 200 million. kr in order to complete the co-location. At Setnesmoen, costs were estimated at 29 million. kr to new offices and warehouses. The defence is now carrying out a quality control of these needs. It is set at 40 million by the year 2001. kr for construction measures related to the co-location. Of this amount, the defense has found it possible to dispose of $13 million. For construction measures at Setnesmoen, local authorities will be asked to identify the solution to be found within this framework. These costs mean that it has not been possible to follow the original timetable for co-location. In the follow-up to the 1999 budget, the Ministry of Defence has ordered the defence to continue its work on precisely co-location. It is now expected to be fully completed by 2005 at the earliest.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e854	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that some money has been allocated to start up. But actually, I and many others think that one can move into the premises at Setnesmoen. They also have modern telecommunications so that the delay that will come is unnecessary. This also points out the defence committee in the budgetary position recently adopted. It is important to ensure the quality of the calculations. I've previously suggested from Stortinget's pulpit that I think there have been trendy calculations from those who don't want to move. That's why I would like to ask the Council of State to be very careful with the quality assurance, because I think it's actually introduced premises that are not necessary in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e863	The Minister for Defence takes note of the request made by the representative Husøy. I want to ensure quality, as I mentioned in my first answer, the numbers that are on the table, and see if they cover more than the need should be mentioned. But after a preliminary overview, there's no reason to believe it, at least initially. Now it's the decision of the Storting that counts, and that's what loyally will be followed up by the Defense. It is also true that it is the Storting that both takes the decisions in this area and takes the budgetary decisions that give the necessary appropriations. From past experience and from my belief in Stortinget, I expect that the Stortinget will ensure that in the future there will also be consistency between the decisions taken in concrete terms and the appropriations granted for follow-up in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e873	I will ask the Minister for Defence the following questions: ‘The Head of State at Rygge Main Aviation Station has informed the press that the last flight for the ‘Tiger’ takes place on 21 December 1998. In dealing with the defence budget, it has been pointed out that before the closure of the Squadron 336, the matter is to be dealt with in Stortinget. Will the Council of State intervene in such a way that the assumptions of the Grand Duchy are followed up?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e882	The 336 Squadron at Rygge Main Aviation Station is equipped with the fighter aircraft F-5, which has been operating in the Defence Force for more than 30 years. In St.meld. No 22 for 1997-98, the Government stated that the fighting aircraft will be sized up to 2006 with a view to maintaining four operational squadrons and that the squadron operating F-5 will be shut down early in the period 1999-2002. Air defence is struggling with a strenuous personnel situation with a lack of experienced pilots and qualified technical staff. There is therefore a need to concentrate resources on training and training on F-16. However, in the extension of Storting’s treatment of the 1999 defence budget, the operations of the 336 squadron will be maintained until further notice, including flight F-5. The work of evaluating the phase-out of F-5 from the war structure and the closure of the 336 squadron continues, as explained in the Government's draft budget. This is done in accordance with the main guidelines of St.meld. No 22 for 1997-98, cf. Inner. S. No 245 for 1997-98, and the conversion of the air defence organisation in the follow-up to the Innst. S. No 244 for 1997-98, cf. St. pp. No 45 for 1997-98. The professional-military investigations shall form the subject of a recommendation to the Ministry of Defence, which in turn will make any proposals for changes to the Storting at the earliest opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e889	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Then it is to be understood that the 336 squadron is still going to be operating until these investigations are put in place. Of course, we were aware that the squadron was to be phased out, and 2001 was also suggested. Now it is the case that the 336 squadron will have a 50th anniversary in 1999. Now we received a different argument from the defence minister than the station manager at Rygge Main Air Station, for on 6 October he was informed in a management dialogue with the general inspector that there was no money to drive this squadron further – ergo the last flight of the squadron would be on 21 December. Now it seems that the defense grinder paints slowly, as they have still not been informed there that the business will continue. Nor could the Chief of Staff of the Air Force announce on Saturday that this activity would be maintained. I just want to ask again for a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e898	The Minister of Defence can confirm that an F-5 will not only be able to fly but will also be in the air after New Year 1999. The Ministry of Defence will now issue a steering directive – already today, if everything goes according to plan – which will provide the necessary guidance for continuation under the Storting decision, not only in the case of the squadron, for which it will always take time to carry out an assessment, but also in the case of operational flight. So F-5 is going to be in the air even after 1 January.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e905	So we go back to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e911	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘In the years 1995-98, the extraction of key stocks of cod, seine and haze has largely followed the recommendations of the researchers, and there has been a fair tax. Then we feel that 1999 will be recommended for a dramatic reduction in these quotas. For cod, there is a reduction from 338,000 tonnes in 1995 to 236,000 tonnes in 1999. The corresponding figures for sieving range from 160 000 tonnes to 87 000 tonnes and for hoists from 90 000 tonnes to 46 000 tonnes. What is the management strategy, and what will the Council of State do to ensure it?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e920	The wide variation in the size of our main fish stocks has been a problem that the fishing industry has had to live with over the years. Much of this is probably due to natural fluctuations, but also overfishing has sometimes been a contributing cause. The overall objective of resource management is to regulate harvesting in order to ensure the sustainable and balanced use of resources. It is of fundamental importance for the coastal communities and of great importance for the whole country that we can live up to this goal. I am not going to go through all the measures and instruments that the administration is putting in, but I will bring forward some important areas of action. Firstly, there is no doubt that there is a need to develop our knowledge of the nature we are harvesting and to better grasp the mechanisms that govern the development of the main fish stocks. It is essential in order to be able to properly adapt stock withdrawals and thus avoid setting too high a number of years, and thus overfishing that results in reduced quotas in recent years. It is an important objective to provide the basis for a steadyest possible level of allowances for each year. An important measure is to develop better calculation models for Norwegian-Arctic cod. In the short term, it is important to get something better in place than today. But in order to achieve an adequate tool, the methods must be developed further, and this is a long-term work for our researchers. The development of better calculation models requires the combination of different data and increased use of environmental data. Ecosystem approximation is an important concept in this context. This requires a better understanding and an overview of the inter-species relationship to better involve data on the development of marine climate and production conditions at sea. Another important area of activity is to ensure that the harvesting of the stocks is consistent with the set quotas and that fishing is carried out in a manner that does not adversely affect the development of the stocks. So we're putting a lot of resources into control, and we're still working to make this more effective. Satellite tracking of seagoing fishing vessels will be launched in 2000. This means that the fishing authorities can enforce the regulatory provisions more effectively. The fishing reporting procedures shall be made more effective by employing technologies developed in recent years, including: through projects supported by the Ministry of Fisheries. Good cooperation has been developed with other nations in the control of fisheries, and this cooperation will be further developed. I'd also like to refer to St.meld. No 51 for 1997-98, prospects for the development of the Norwegian fishing industry, presented during the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e935	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is interesting to note that the main components for a stable, predictable quota calculation are monitoring, control, satellite tracking and catch reporting – cooperation and control. Governments assume that to a large extent all fishermen are cellar rings. It's with sadness I have to register it. After what I've been prepared, eight or nine researchers from the entire research team in Bergen are researching bottom fish. Can it not be a thought to deploy more resources and possibly share responsibility between Bergen and Tromsø? It's a good research environment there. We are facing major international problems in demonstrating the fishability of the stocks we fish. It's not possible to live with variations of 50 pst. per 1 % years.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e942	I assume that the representative Steinar Bastesen does not believe that there is no need for control. Over all years, it has been shown that a low level of compliance must be ensured by all those involved in the fishing industry that there is control to ensure the smooth functioning of the regulatory systems. It is clear that regulation is a significant intervention in the free activity and economy of business operators. That's why you have to have a tight control system so that you can trust it. And it is clear that over the years there have been significant attempts to avoid these regulations, not particularly from Norwegian fishermen, but perhaps especially from fishermen from other countries who have had less developed control systems. In terms of satellite tracking, this has actually been implemented in Canada and in some other countries in order to gain better control. For its part, the EU has adopted it as one of the most important areas for control systems, and we want to follow that up. When it comes to research, I just want to say that we have a project going on to lay the foundation for better computational models. We expect that once it's completed, we have a better tool, and we'll keep following developments to make this tool better.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e953	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘The size has established a wreckage system for passenger cars to stimulate the surrender of end-of-life vehicles. Will the Council consider extending the wreckage scheme to larger vehicles, such as buses?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e962	The current collection system for car wrecks ensures the proper collection and recovery of car wrecks. The scheme was launched in 1978 and currently includes passenger and van cars, combined cars with a total weight of less than 3500 kg, track motorcycles, minibuses and campers. The registration fee for the first registered vehicle is 900 kroner per day. vehicle. Upon surrender of the end-of-life vehicle, the voucher is paid of NOK 1000 per person. vehicle. The collection system for car wrecks shall be self-financing by balancing revenue and expenditure over time. The purpose of the wreckage system is to motivate vehicle owners to deliver end-of-life vehicles to the approved collection site for environmentally sound management. With the exception of a temporarily increased wreckage in 1996, the wreckage for cars has remained unchanged since 1986. The reduced real value of the wreckage has weakened the economic motivation for the surrender of car wrecks. The government therefore proposed that the State budget for 1999 should increase the parcel by 500 kroner. In order to finance the increase in the parcel, the wreckage fee will increase by NOK 300 to NOK 1200 per person. vehicle from 1 January 1999. Today's wreckage system is working satisfactorily. The wreckage system motivates vehicle owners to submit them for wreckage to ensure environmentally sound and safe handling. Therefore, there may be good arguments to extend the scheme to vehicles currently excluded, including: major motor vehicles such as buses and lorries. In order for the use of the instrument to be sufficiently strong against this type of major vehicle, the parcel should be significantly larger than for passenger cars. There appears initially to be no major practical and administrative problems associated with the extension of the scheme. I am therefore in a positive position to extend the scheme to several vehicles such as: buses and lorries. However, the need to extend the scheme needs to be further assessed and problems related to implementation and possible transitional problems in the start-up phase need to be addressed. The Ministry of Finance, in consultation with the Ministry of Environmental Protection, will assess the extension of the Landfill Facility to next year’s State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e973	I thank the Minister of Finance for the answer, and I especially thank him because it was a very positive answer. I then perceive that he will now come to Stortinget with a case concerning this part of our vehicle fleet, i.e. the larger and heavier vehicles. We know that these vehicles are used as camping buses, commercial buses, etc., and they represent a major accident risk. Between 5 and 10 pst. Of these buses in Norway, the number of buses is between 400 and 800. This offers a high potential for reuse in different areas, including the technical facilities of these buses, so that when we can now facilitate a wreckage system, it can also help create jobs. In the area from which I come, initiatives have been taken by local carriers, and I look forward to the Minister of Finance coming to Stortinget on the matter and we can get this work started.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e982	I feel that the representative Nordtun and I share a common view and common interest in this matter, and then I look very confident in the future. At least there is no doubt that I am going to work with a positive attitude to find a system, and I have not seen any significant problems in getting a wreck order even for larger cars. After all, we will be able to come back to such an arrangement in connection with the budget next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e990	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘Tunds of heathmarks that have purchased pastry and pastrybags are recorded at the tax haven. Both customers and businesses believe, rightly so, that this reminds us of ‘great brother sees you’ mentality and inconvenient dynamite lifting. 'What's next?' asks Hamar Worksheet. Can the Council of States confirm that there are no plans for an ax and axe to become the next tax item, and what else will the Council of State do to stop an excessive tax rate?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e999	The Ministry of Finance has been in contact with the County Tax Office in Hedmark. It is stated that, inter alia: In the light of experience in other counties, there is reason to believe that some of the blacks are traded. It smells improperly small when the taxpayer advertises by being sold after having spent both pastry and wood packaging on a larger scale in his economic accounts, while the same accounts do not show sales income by. This does not belong to the largest and most interesting control areas of the tax haven. However, limited control efforts will be needed, including: to indicate that no player in the black economy should feel safe from disclosure. By using information obtained by limited book-keeping of suppliers of pickets and pickets, as well as the value added and other equivalency data, controls are practically conducted without extensive use of resources. With regard to the procedure chosen by the County Tax Office in Hedmark, I find it difficult to see anything but that one has stayed within what must be considered reasonable in relation to the audience. Nor can I see anything but that the procedure seems reasonable in relation to what a person wants to achieve. The sale of wood by traders is clearly taxable and also subject to VAT in most cases. A limited control effort also in this area cannot be characterised as over-inferiority. I assume that the representative here will not defend the tax evasions that this may be, even though there are several major and worse evasions that deserve stricter control. I also believe that the representative Hernæs will understand that ax and handicrafts do not provide such taxable income that more professional equipment can do. His fear of control on the axe and cause front is unfounded, and I think this too will be understood by Hernæs.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1015	I am sincerely disappointed that the Council of State does not at all go into what was the nerve of my question, namely, the big brother sees the mentality and inconvenient dusk lifting. We are a nation of hobbyists and hobby craftsmen. There is virtually no heathmarking that does not have a wood bag or wood machine, which does not have a grinding machine, a turning machine, snow cleaning equipment, etc. It is in the nature of the matter that all of this, if you want, can be used for tax evasion. My question was whether this equipment should be registered. The insinuation that I should defend tax evasion was completely unnecessary. Then I have to ask, what amount limit are we talking about? Should a snowblower, as it is quite obvious that you can clear snow with the neighbor, also be registered? Is it the old problem that you have to register about everything, fortunately except axe and handicrafts – at least for the moment? Where's the limit going?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1022	I don't want to accept a big brother seeing you-community, but believe that what has happened in the matter in question, can't be described as a big brother seeing you-mentality. I understand that heresy thinks it is worrying that I did not respond to it, and that I did not take a clearer distance from such a thought – I have done so. For my part, I think it is equally worrying if a wholesaler believes that a certain tax evasion should be acceptable without attempting to reveal it. It is enough, as I said in my answer, unfortunately a fact that in the business of marketing there are probably some black sales, and it should be in everyone's interest to be exposed. It is, of course, impossible to establish a certain amount limit for the cost or cost of these tools. However, I think that what is relevant in terms of the acquisition of equipment that can be used for food purposes, which will be used for the marketing of wood, should be checked.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1032	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: ‘In the financial debate of 30 November 1998, Minister of Finance Restad refuted claims that there would be higher unemployment next year. Several professional bodies, such as the Directorate of Labour, the Central Statistical Office, the Bank of Norway and the Norwegian Banking Association, say that unemployment may increase next year. What are the figures and professional bodies on which the Government bases its estimates for unemployment next year?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1041	The forecasts in the national budget mean that economic growth is stabilising at a lower level than it has been in recent years and that the pressure in the economy is gradually decreasing. These include: Considered that the growth in labour demand is decreasing significantly. It is expected that the marked decline in unemployment we have seen in recent years will stop. The latest data from the Labour Force Survey indicate that employment has continued to increase and that the number of job seekers without income has continued to fall. The AKU unemployment rate was 2.8 pst. – seasonally adjusted – on average for the months of August to October. At the same time, data from the Directorate of Labour suggest that the decline in registered unemployment has stopped. Economic developments next year are uncertain, and we cannot exclude that growth is becoming weaker than assumed, even though the statistics for the third quarter or individual indicators for October and November do not give clear evidence that there has been any marked growth in the Norwegian economy. The last forecast of the Central Statistical Office from the beginning of December shows a markedly weaker trend. The Agency expects a significant cover in the mainland economy next year, including: the average unemployment rate increases from 3,2 pst. in the year to 4.0 pst. However, the Central Statistical Office also stresses that future developments in the labour market are uncertain. The national budget also highlighted the uncertainty about economic developments. Experience has shown that it is particularly difficult to provide good predictions in a situation of great international uncertainty and after several years of strong economic growth. The forecasts in the national budget are based on a clear reduction in wage growth in 1999. That's a demanding assumption. Labour demand is still high and the use of capacity in the economy is high. Participation is now record high and the potential for further growth is likely to be limited. The national budget estimates for unaltered average ACU leave from 1998 to 1999. I still think this is a realistic estimate. But at the same time, I would like to stress, as has been done in the national budget, the uncertainty associated with economic development. Labour market developments may be weaker than estimated in the national budget, in particular if low oil prices and international financial market disturbances result in interest rates being high for a long time. There's little we can do about the dramatic conditions we've witnessed in the world economy in the last few months. On the other hand, Stortinget, as I have stressed the importance of many times, has taken its share of responsibility by reducing the cost growth and thus securing employment in the longer term. This will also facilitate lower interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1058	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I am not satisfied with it. I also don't think the government council responded to what I asked for, but I understand the finance minister so that he still stands on what he said in the finance debate that we don't have an increasing unemployment ahead of us. Meanwhile, the Government has halved the number of labour market measures, and then one has to note that the Government is taking the chance, is not taking this seriously and is not prepared for increasing unemployment. Meanwhile, a lot of work is lost. All the disciplines that I know of say unemployment will increase. The Directorate of Labour informed the Government already on 15 October this year that it was going to increase from 50,000 to 70,000 next year. Then my question will be: What are the professional bodies on which the government bases its estimates? I haven't heard of them. And why is it that the Government does not trust the underlying agency, which is perhaps the one that has the most advantage in the future development of the labour market, namely the Labour Directorate? The Directorate has clearly informed the Government that the probability of unemployment increasing next year is very high, and that it will increase by at least 20,000 people.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1065	I have for the most part revealed the Workers' Party's tactics, to claim that the Government is consistently insisting that under no circumstances will there be any increase in unemployment next year, in order to hope that perhaps you can come back and say, "What did we say!" There is no doubt that I already in my fiscal statement underlined the uncertainty that exists, and I could quote a lot from that post. Among other things, I said:\t\t You ‘An international setback will also affect the Norwegian economy and lead to a reduction in business profitability, including the financial industry. This could also affect the income of the State. At the same time, low oil prices and international currency turmoil can lead to a continuing low dollar rate and thus a sustained high level of interest rates. High salary supplements for next year's salary line and a lack of fiscal convergence can lead to this.' There is uncertainty, in particular international, and how it works, inter alia: In our view, interest rates should be lowered towards the European level during 1999. And if it doesn't succeed, of course, the danger is present for an increase in unemployment, but we have full attention to this and will make sure to adjust the course if you get the unemployment that a lot of environments fear.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1077	Question 10 comes back to us later.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1083	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Agriculture Kåre Gjønnes: ‘Can Norwegian legislation stop imports or breeding on the Kurasen Belgian blue and, if not, what measures should be taken?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1090	Through the existing EEA Agreement, Norway has accepted the Animal Breeding Directives. These Directives do not deal with imports as such. The introduction of animals into Norway is regulated by rules on animal health conditions governing trade in and imports of live animals. These provisions are based on Directives which are also contained in the existing EEA Agreement. Norway may not, on the basis of these regulations, stop the introduction of animals complying with the health/infectious trade requirements. That being said, I would refer to the first, second and third paragraphs of Section 5 of the Norwegian Animal Protection Act, where it is said that it is prohibited to modify the animal's legacy in such a way that the animal is unfit for normal behaviour or has its physiological functions adversely affected, that the animal is suffering unnecessarily, or that the change causes general ethical reactions. In addition, breeding on animals that have become such shall be prohibited. The prohibition in the Animal Protection Act is of a general nature, covers all animal species and covers all breeding and all breeding programmes which may be said to contravene that provision. As far as I know the breed of Belgian blue, animals that have the so-called hypertrophic will be hit by the ban. Therefore, animals introduced will not be eligible for breeding if the breeding contravenes the prohibition laid down in the Animal Protection Act. Without prejudice to the consent of the Stortingen, from 1 January 1999 animal protection will become part of the EEA Agreement through the revised veterinary annexes to the Agreement. This includes the inclusion of the new EU Directive 98/58 on the protection of farmed animals. This Directive provides, inter alia, for: that breeding or breeding programmes which would cause suffering for the animals in question shall not be permitted. In my opinion, the Directive can be interpreted in the same way as Section 5 of our Animal Protection Act and thus provide Norway with the basis for prohibiting breeding in Belgian blue in the future. This interpretation may be raised before the Court, which we may not be able to prevent.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1099	I thank you for your answer. My starting point for the question is the animal ethics. We human beings are driving out races like this. Belgian blue, which genetically produces a lot of meat, i.e. what gives money, while organs like lungs and hearts become small, and almost does not allow the animal to move. In the case of cesarean births, one can read in the papers that certain farmers make cesarean cuts themselves for economic reasons. There is broad political agreement that the animal protection law should be strict and at the best of animals. My question is therefore the same as many people are asking: will an extension of the EEA Agreement – the so-called veterinary agreement – exacerbate the possibilities for Norwegian authorities to take care of good animal health?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1106	I am not surprised that the question is asked, as we have witnessed the debate that has taken place in the media in recent times. In my answer, I tried to make it clear that, as far as our situation is concerned, through the legislation we have today and the one we are going to deal with after the Stortinget may have adopted the new Annex I to the EEA Agreement, the veterinary agreement, we will at least not be inferior to dealing with this issue than we are doing today. What I found, however, to include in my reply is that this case can, of course, be brought before the Court of Justice, as otherwise within the EEA system we have under the agreement with the EU. Norway cannot prevent this. However, from the point of view of the Norwegian authorities, we believe that with the legislation we have today under the Animal Protection Act, and what will form the basis of the new agreement will be strong when it comes to dealing with this matter, among other things. ethical views to which the representative referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1116	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘The 1995 Lottery Act considerably tightened the requirements for the holding of lotteries, the very foundation stone of the work of NPISHs. Today, for example, a book of soldering in the local country trade is normally required by police clearance. As a general rule, selling weights is prohibited for children under 15 years of age. In addition, a number of strict rules apply. The Norwegian Women's Sanity Association states that the law threatens the business of many local associations. What will the Council of State do to remedy the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1125	The Lottery Act provides for access to the lottery market for humanitarian or social activities. The Ministry of Justice has therefore conducted a liberal practice in line with Storting’s intentions regarding participation in this market. In deciding whether to grant an authorisation, the police may take into account a socially sound distribution of the revenue from the lottery activities. Furthermore, the aim is to ensure that the funds of non-governmental organisations and associations are increased. In order to achieve these objectives, it is necessary to have legislation and public governance to ensure that revenue benefits the objective. This is where the police play an important role as authorisation authority and control body. The Lottery Act provides social and humanitarian organisations and associations with a number of opportunities to conduct lotteries, including: Land lotteries, small lotteries, vending machines, bingo etc. As a general rule, prior authorisation from the police is required. However, normal bazaar operations do not require authorisation. NOU 1997:14 proposes the establishment of a lottery supervision of oversight and control responsibilities for all gambling and lottery activities in Norway. As a follow-up to the working group’s recommendation, the Ministry of Justice is now working on a draft resolution. As a result of this, the current regulations will be revised. In this context, detailed rules for the implementation of local small lotteries will be considered. Here is one of the objectives of clarifying the need for control of lottery revenue in order to ensure good framework conditions for organisations in implementing local small lotteries. In the work currently in progress, my starting point is to design a more flexible regulatory framework for smaller lotteries.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1138	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is good that the regulations in force are now being revised and that the Council of State intends to ensure a good framework for organisations. However, in these Christmas seasons, the Council of State is aware that, among other things, the law is the law. assuming that if half a pig is to be soldered and cannot submit the pig itself at the time of application, must a separate bank guarantee be provided for the value of the pig? You don't know if you should laugh or cry. The law is a threat to non-profit work in general. The Ministry of Justice has had a very long time to make regulations that could reasonably have limited the scope of the law. Will the Council of State ensure the continuation of this work? It is unsustainable the way the legislation now works. It is, as I said, a threat to the work of the voluntary organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1145	The Ministry of Justice is doing this work. And when I assure you that my intention with this review is just to ensure local teams and organisations good framework conditions to operate within the framework of the law, I have to point out again that it is the law of 1995 that provides the framework for what the Ministry of Justice can do. The Ministry of Justice has at any time a desire to deliver the products as quickly as possible, but there we also have framework restrictions within, and I am enough – I regret to say in some cases – to take account of them. But this comes as soon as we have the opportunity to put it forward from our side.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1153	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: «In the sweet Christmas season, people who rob shops steal. Reports of Nazirites come from all over the country and cause problems for trade in goods. In Fredrikstad, the number of shoplifting has increased by 60 pst. last year. There are very large differences between police districts in how it responds to shoplifting. Will the Council of State go in to impose a minimum penalty or a fee for this type of criminal act?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1162	The Ministry of Justice is familiar with the problem, among other things. through an enquiry from the chain security committee, and I share the concern of the trading community for development. I would like to stress that the Government is involved in fighting crime, and reduced crime is one of the main areas of government activity in 1999. In addition to the more serious crime, it is also important to combat so-called everyday crime, where winning crimes are the main focus of the crimes. I think it is important to follow up on the less serious issues, because these will often be the gateway to more serious crime. I know that I also have the lawyer with me in this. In the past this year, the National Advocate has inculcated that minor crimes by a known perpetrator are not to be settled. As regards the claim of differences between police districts as to how it responds to shoplifting, this is a matter which must be addressed primarily by the prosecution authority’s commanding authority. In the address from the chain safety committee to the department, where the claim for different practices is made, it appears that the letter has also been sent to the Advocate General. On the basis of the question about the questionnaire, I have been in contact with the National Attorney's Office. The Advocate General has no objections to the fact that the police districts operate at standard rates for the size of the fine, but points out that a specific assessment needs to be made on the individual case. The penal code states that the amount of the fine must be adjusted to the economy of the offender. In addition, the National Advocate General states that noxious matters should be resolved by the Council of Conflict, as he recommended to the Advocates of State in 1996. For young offenders, such a way of dealing with one another is often more tactful than a fine. In principle, today's legislation should be sufficient to ensure that those who are reported for Naziry are followed up and punished if they are found guilty. I will follow further developments, and if the measures put in place under today's legislation do not produce results, I will of course be open to considering whether a legislative change can be a solution. Whether or not to propose the establishment of a minimum penalty in this context must be subject to a thorough assessment. As mentioned above, the amount of the fine shall be adjusted to the economy of the offender and, as it may be very varied, it will be difficult to find an appropriate level of minimum penalties.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1179	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that it's working on these things, and that you're occupied with it in the department. There is some confusion when many shopkeepers and employees in the shops react to the fact that there is still a waiver of charges, and that you feel that the authorities are not doing enough to help prevent this type of crime. Some shopkeepers actually fear for their livelihood, because the problems have become too big. That's why this is very important with a fee or a minimum penalty in these cases, so at least you get a response. Does the Council not believe that there should be some sort of reaction by the authorities in all cases?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1186	To the question of whether I believe there should be some reaction on the part of the authorities: that is what is the basis for what we have in criminal law and criminal proceedings in this country. But just as fully we have this third that I know the representative Hedstrøm knows very well, where the Ministry of Justice has its share of the task and the National Attorney. As I explained in my first answer, there is very close contact between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice. We notice that we view these questions equally. As outlined by the answer I have given, this is with the size of the fine and its adjustment to the economy, which is laid down in the penal code. We must then have a change in the law, if the representative wants to change it. But we think there's enough room to make these assessments within today's system.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1196	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘The Oslo wave of the race seems to have no limits. The right has proposed a programme in 17 points against crime, but even if the proposals are adopted, they will, of course, only work in the short term. What will the Council of State do of immediate action to stop violence now, and of Christmas and New Year's Eve?'
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1205	I share the concern expressed by the representative Hernæs in his question about the increase in the number of traffickers, especially in our largest cities. There are two issues that are of particular concern, namely that the estimates are now more likely to affect young victims, either in the street or at work at the store, in kiosks or similar places, and that the cranes themselves are even more likely to be under the age of authority, even under criminal sanctions. The police are also expressing the fact that there is a new trend here in part. That is why I am committed to taking immediate action against this worrying development. However, as the representative hereafter also points out, most of the measures we can put in place within a democratic regime will first produce results in the longer term. The most important thing is to work constantly to find good prevention measures against crime, including against criminality. In order to prevent and combat violence in public places, the Government presented the ‘Centre for Security’ action plan in September. This plan is aimed to a large extent at the violence that is taking place in public places, and also at justice. But we also need, as we experience the situation today, to find measures that can deliver results in the short term. After banks and post offices were long-term targets for cranes, a specific selection, called the Ransommission, was set up to prepare action against them specifically against these types of objects. A number of measures were taken by post offices and banks. The result of this work has been the downfall of such objects. However, the flow of kiosks, gas stations and the like has increased. In view of this situation, it is necessary to further develop and strengthen cooperation with the relevant bodies in order to find the most consistent and effective response to crime of law and violence against kiosks and shops. A testing scheme has already been put in place in Oslo, followed by concrete actions in cooperation with the Trade and Service Industry’s Main Organisation. To date, there are too few shops that have taken measures that qualify to be labelled ‘Safe against ran’, but developments are moving in the right direction. The Ministry will set up a new wide-ranging resource group. Through close cross-sectoral cooperation, the group shall include the police, the prosecution authority, the commercial sector, watchkeeping companies, etc. participate, have advice and ideas as tasks, with a view to reducing the number of people involved. More recently, the Oslo police district has given special priority to the fight against violent crime in public places in the Oslo centre, especially with overtime efforts during the weekends, with very good results. This will be followed up with a high priority both during the Christmas and New Year holidays. The police are also putting up for reinforced efforts against both the kids and the gangsters against shops, kiosks and the like. We will put in all available means to stop this new development in the criminality. In order to strengthen the sacred service, we will, in cooperation with the police chief in Oslo, offer such services to third-class students at the Police College. Christmas and New Year's Weekend in Oslo. In a meeting with the department's political leadership on Monday, this was discussed with Oslo's chief of police. I also see that the Joint Association of Police is promoting this measure as an appropriate instrument. I would also like to stress that very many of the rough branches are or are about to be clarified. Oslo police districts also have rans patrols that regularly control kiosks and the like in the evening, in order to prevent ransacking. The police have a huge task, and it is important that they succeed in their efforts against this type of crime. However, the best possible result is also dependent on the degree of intensification of the trade industry in the implementation of safeguard measures in exposed locations.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1224	I thank you for the answer, and I would like to stress that the Minister of Justice assumes a very great responsibility when she states that the police have given priority to the gross violence in Oslo; in spite of that, it has done away with it in such a way that we have now felt it. Then I want to underline one thing: It felt the violence is as real and as serious to the person who experiences it, as the violence itself is. That's good what we're hearing now, that you have to put in police college students, because in the short term, we're convinced that there's nothing else that can stop the violent wave than the visible police. I want to follow up with the police college students, with whom I am pleased: What has the Minister of Justice thought about the police reserve? I have previously had a question in the Questionnaire about the police reserve, and it has been promised to come back to that matter. It must be an excellent measure, we saw how effective they were under the OL at Lillehammer.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1233	What is said here, that in spite of the measures taken by the police and the Ministry of Justice, we still have a wave of gross violence, we see. At the same time, it is also right to say that, with regard to the action plan presented in September, it is necessary to accept that it will take some time before we have received the desired level of action we are proposing. That experienced violence is as real as the real violence, we understand, and with the measures we propose, we just want to contribute to alleviating anxiety and fear. Visible police are a very important matter, and we believe that getting third-class students from the Police College into this work will lead us very far. But it is clear that we also reject no other follow-up action, precisely to achieve what I experience is the questioner's and my common goals.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1243	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘The places of work of 17 mentally retarded people in the municipality of Meldal may be laid down over the New Year because the municipality has to save money, and the councillor has proposed to shut down the ASVO company, because this is not a statutory task, writes the Address Paper on 19 November 1998. Will the Council of State take action to ensure that the savings in the municipality of Meldal will not affect the weakest in the municipality?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1252	As the questioner is probably aware, the labour market authorities provide support for the establishment and operation of so-called co-operation measures, ASVO measures. ASVO measures are designed to create sustainable jobs. Employment shall contribute to the qualification and development of resources of persons with extensive occupational disabilities. It is the Directorate of Labour that, following the recommendations of the County Employment Offices, takes the decision on where to establish the new ASVO sites. I have been informed by the Directorate of Labour that the application from the municipality of Meldal regarding ASVO sites is due to be granted. However, the number of posts has to be assessed in conjunction with other applications within the budgetary framework established.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1263	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it was very nice, because I think that if the Meldal municipality gets at least some places, they will be able to run that company further. So I thought that was very good. But I want to draw this a little bit longer. I believe it is very serious if poor local economy – not only in Meldal, but also elsewhere – allows disabled people who have been in work for many years to be sent home for inaction. I've visited a lot of companies for the disabled and I've seen the joy and quality of life that work gives them. Here we are talking about the weakest in society, and these are the ones that are in danger of being hit. We're facing a big investment in psychiatry that will also mean that we need a lot more jobs for the disabled. And I want to ask the Council of State: can we expect the Government to come to Stortinget with a stepping-up plan to ensure more job-chosen jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1270	I share the representative's experience with ASVO companies as excellent actions. There are both municipal ASVO companies and ASVO companies that are already operating with state subsidies. The budget for this House has increased by 10 million. kr. This will result in both increases in rates per year. space for those already in service or going into service and it will increase the number of locations. These are jobs for those with long-term protection for those with a job choice. In addition, I think it is very important to point out the areas of action for disabled people who also have a different character, where there is a greater possibility of flexibility between the different measures. And it's a line that the government's policy will continue through the letters of assignment that the Labour Market Act gets from us.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1280	‘Many single-parents need training courses adapted to the life situation in order to get to work. The labour market seat is responsible for making an offer and offers are established in many places. Does the Council of State consider it necessary to take special account of this group, both in terms of length and scope of action, and can the Council of State promise measures and qualification to lone dependants who leave the transitional aid period?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1287	The changes in the rules on transitional social security from 1 January 1998 entail increased training efforts to qualify single dependants for work and self-sufficiency. Increased transitional assistance and support for child care could improve the economy during education. Lonely dependants are a composite group. Many are at work or in education. Some receive transitional benefits for a short period, while others receive transitional benefits for a longer period. It is a major challenge to qualify single carers and to increase the link with the labour market. Social inclusion will increase the opportunities for social contacts and participation of single dependants in society, reduce dependence on public social welfare schemes and increase their independence. Unemployed single dependants may avail themselves of the various services of the labour market, in line with all other unemployed persons. Among other things, they can be offered work that can be combined with childcare. In addition, they may participate in labour market measures. In addition, in many counties, formalised cooperation has been established between the labour market, social security and county levels in order to facilitate the situation of single dependants. However, the scope of labour market measures targeted at this group must be seen in the light of developments in the labour market and the overall level of action.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1300	I thank you for the presentation, but there was really no answer to what I asked for. But I'm going to catch up with what the Council of State says, that the changes in popular security involve increasing efforts at education to qualify single-parents for work. And that's right, because when dealing with the welfare message, one just said that it was supposed to be follow-up measures for single dependants, and the majority also thought that each one should be followed up with concrete plans. I want to ask the Council of State if that is the case that this is actually happening, because what we see now is that the measures are being reduced. When the Council of State says that unemployed single dependants can make use of the different services of the labour market state in the same way as others, it must mean that the concrete follow-up responsibility foreseen by the Stortinge when dealing with welfare notification cannot be fulfilled under the current labour market law framework.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1307	I thought that through my answer I had answered the question, because the question was whether special consideration should be given to lonely caregivers. I replied that they would be assessed in the same way as other jobseekers or unemployed people. This makes sense, given the flexibility that should lie in the level of action in order to meet the needs of more vulnerable groups. The more we bind this to a vulnerable group, the more difficult it is to offer to others. In the case of single dependants, it is clear that there will be cooperation between social security, school and work units to find the right measures for each dependant. No other guidance has been provided by the Directorate of Labour now than for previous phases.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1317	May I ask a new question to the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘We have 50,000 unemployed in this country, and unemployment seems to be increasing. At the same time, 16 000 job vacancies were available at the end of November 1998. The health sector, in particular, has problems in providing skilled labour, but there are also job vacancies in industry, the education sector and the commercial and service industries. What does the Council of State intend to do to qualify the unemployed so as to qualify for the vacancies?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1326	I agree with the representative eye that the labour market is still tight. At the same time, long-term unemployment is reduced, and many of the unemployed come to work quickly. In line with the government's policy, which has not been noted by the Storting, labour market measures will primarily help job seekers to get to work quickly. Labour market courses are among the most relevant labour market measures. These shall be short and professional. As a result, within the framework of the Labour Market Act, the ETF aims to provide modular courses aimed at job vacancies. Where appropriate, courses could also help to build up sub-competence. On the one hand, there is a lack of consistency between the qualifications required in job vacancies and the qualifications of the unemployed on the other. A part that has not completed vocational training may need more extensive assistance than that offered in labour market policy. This must be applied for within the ordinary education system. The new skills reform aims at facilitating access for adults to higher education. With today's tight labour market, it is also important that employers carefully assess whether the requirements for formal competence for the various job vacancies are necessary. In many cases, long experience could outweigh the lack of formal vocational training. Some of the job vacancies require long-term higher education, which cannot be offered in labour market policy. In order to counter bottlenecks in some particularly important areas, the labour market seat is therefore also active abroad recruitment.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1339	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I think it came out little new in the answer that was given. It's said that the unemployed need a lot of skills. Then I have to ask: why was the temporary agency abolished, which was just a targeted scheme, which meant that unskilled people in the municipalities, among other things. could you be trained as a nurse? Earlier today, we have asked Sponheim State Council if the government has a plan to deal with any increase in unemployment next year. When we know that we have adopted a government budget with very low appropriations for labour market measures, there must be reason to ask the Council of State: if it turns out that there is a need – and I believe it is already – to increase the measures already quickly over the New Year, will the Government come back with a contingency plan, long before the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1348	I experienced that the giant representative Eye now in a way changed the question. I was actually happy to have a question that went on that is the biggest challenge, as I see it – not fluctuations in the level of action or unemployment through seasons, but what we are actually doing with the gap between the skills available to the unemployed and the skills required by the labour market. That, I think, is such an important issue that I allow myself to stay a little bit with it. Because during these fluctuations in seasonal variations in unemployment, there is an understated need for labour in this country. If we can't figure out a transfer of skills and a raising of the skills of the people who are available, as well as that we need to mobilise more labour, we actually have a very big problem. That is why I allowed myself to answer that question more than the follow-up question, because I feel that I have been answered quite many times in this room today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1353	The President understands that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1359	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘The transport demonstrator project was a research project launched to streamline transport industry needs in Norway. The potential and needs of the emergency response were developed along the way. Vector-based digital maps are now being created that will be an important tool for the emergency situation. Can the Council of State look at the possibility that in the future the emergency situation in Norway, fire, health and police will have free up-to-date access to these maps?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1368	Transport demonstrator is a collaborative project between Telenor Mobil, Vegdirektoratet and the Statens Kartverk with the participation of users and system vendors. The project was established in 1995 and concluded at the end of 1997 and was part of the Norwegian Research Council’s initiative on national information networks. The purpose of the project was to establish an electronic road information database for use, among others. freight transport, public transport, transport within health care, call-out vehicles, services and sales. The project consisted of two parts: the establishment of infrastructure for quality road data and the use of these data by 15 different users, inter alia. Customs Post-Globe, Oslo Police, Oslo Sporveier, Ullevål Hospital, etc. Electronic data were input in such a way that they were exploited in different combinations with addresses and maps as well as satellite positioning and mobile communications. The evaluation of user experience shows that most already have or expect to realise significant gains in IT system solutions in the planning and management of their transport operations. There is a company, TransportTelematics AS, owned by Telenor Mobil, which operates the commercial operation of the electronic road infrastructure — an electronic road data infrastructure and its addresses are established for the whole of the eastern region. Maps throughout South Norway will be completed by this year, while maps for the rest of Norway are planned to be completed by the first half of 1999. Digital maps and electronic road information for mobile communication solutions have already been sold and used by a variety of users, including emergency situations. TransportTelematics AS plans to provide services based on the established data infrastructure also for use in other parts of the transport market as well as in the passenger car market. There are also plans to expand road data infrastructure over the next few years with current data on, for example: traffic flows, accidents and other road and pre-notifications. I see it as clearly important that both the emergency situation and the transport sector in general benefit from the significant efficiency gains that can be achieved through the increased use of information and telecommunications technologies. Digital maps and the necessary system solutions are offered under commercial conditions in the market. With regard to the financing of the costs of such investments for the emergency budget, I believe that this should normally be made visible over the budget of each unit and given priority to investment for other purposes and tasks. However, I believe that there may be a basis for looking at the possibilities for cooperation within and across the levels of acquisition and operation in relation to such solutions, on the basis of the need for the lowest possible costs.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1379	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I actually think was positive. I understood the closure so that the emergency situation can expect that there could be an improvement in cost efficiency that allows the emergency situation to be put into use in this system. What's the problem today is that it's very expensive to get into this system, but when we know what opportunities this opens up when it comes to saving lives and preventing disasters, at least I think it's very important that this becomes available as soon as possible, especially for the emergency situation. I understand the minister so that he is prepared to attend and look at this, so that we can also improve the efficiency of the emergency situation through this tool. I assume the minister can respond positively to that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1384	Yes, I can, because I have said that with the knowledge you have about such digital tools, it is necessary to look at how you can ensure that costs of acquisition and use are reduced, so that – in order to deal with something that I suppose lies in the representative's question – you do not feel that systems block such reasonable thinking. I feel that the representative just wants to cheer up, initiate and stimulate such initiatives, and I can confirm that I will follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1393	‘The Council of State is aware of the road standard in Osterøy. It is imperative that the Hannisdal line be completed as soon as possible. A collective municipal government has now decided to finance the 100 pst extension. with tolls. Osterøy has 7000 inhabitants and approx. 330 enterprises which are dependent on good road safety on their behalf. What role should the State play in relation to local communities that are taking on a major role in the transport sector, but still have many unsolved transport tasks?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1400	The autumn of 1989 was St. Prp. No 5 for 1989-90 About Kvisti bridge by road Herland – Veset – Hauge, submitted. Here it was proposed to build 1) the kvisti bridge – later renamed Osterøybrua, 2) the Tiråstunnel and 3) the so-called Hannisdalsline. In St. prp. No 37 for 1992-93, About Kvisti Bru, this was reworked, and a step-by-step development was adopted. In the first place, it was decided to build only Osterøybrua. At the same time, it was pointed out that the development of the Tirås tunnel and the Hannisdal line could improve the economy of the project. In the examination of the 1997 State budget, it was decided to extend the project to the Tiråstunnel. With regard to the third part of this project – the Hannisdal Line – it is interesting that the municipality wants to fully finance this road with tolls. I would therefore initially like to welcome any request for such an extension. I still want to take an important reservation. Such a project must normally be carefully reviewed and approved by the local authorities before it may be promoted by the Stortinget. I have been informed that an application from Osterøy Brusel Company AS is now being considered at the road office in Hordaland. Furthermore, treatment is planned in the district of Hordaland in the spring of 1999. Any application will then be sent to the centre of treatment. If it is decided to promote the case for Storting, this may take place at the earliest in the autumn of 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1411	I am pleased that the Minister for Transport is in favour of the application for Osterøy to finance Hannisdal Line 100 pst. with a toll payment – I kept saying that it was just missing. Nevertheless, I did not think that he answered all my question. The Minister of Transport was on Osterøy in connection with the opening of the Tirsastunnel. It was Osterøy's industrial team who took him on a round on the Osterøy roads – I assume it was an experience that he still thinks. The local boost for business in Osterøy is heavy when it comes to transport costs — as it is today, we already have a barrier to competition. What is the important question for me is what kind of specific Christmas greetings the Minister of Transport can send both to the Osterøy industry and to the Osterøy municipality when it comes to solving tasks such as: necessary road project, such as Hauge – Lonevåg, as he may think – as well as repair of the road between Lonevåg and Tysse. All of these projects involve maintenance, development and traffic protection of existing roads.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1420	I answered the question as kindly as possible, when everyone knows that there is no other money for the transport sector than what is in the Bondevik government budget – we note that after consideration of the budget in the Committee on Transport for some time. I think it's excellent that someone will pay 100 pst. – but good treatment for those who have to pay indicates that they know what 100 pst. That's what I'm And that means you have to get a cost clarification, so that people know what the amount is, because we remember, among other things. in connection with the debate on North Hordlandsbrua, that we had some surprises afterwards. So I say, "Clarify the matter, treat it locally," and then we promote it further. Much more kindly, a State Council cannot respond to a local initiative. It is also the case that I am very well aware of the situation in Osterøy, and the fact that one wants to take an initiative in the municipality in terms of roads that have old western standards, except that they are asphalted, I think I am impressive. But as I said, it would be a bad Christmas greeting to come up with a project without at the same time demanding cost assurance. Because Stortinget has, rightly, been so tough on cost assurance requirements that we have to expect that. Otherwise I am very interested, and I am very eager to listen to what comes from Osterøy, because there is a lot going on.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1427	So we go back to question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1433	This question, from the representative of Karin Andersen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1436	‘The government is now notifying that they will spend 50 million. the crowns of the discretionary squat to avoid school closures in municipalities that drop out of schools to have money for the costs of the reform of the elderly. Has the Government now obtained an overview of the size of the cuts, the number of school closures resulting from the budget, and can the Council of State say whether the amounts available for this purpose are sufficient?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1443	The financial framework for municipalities is particularly tight in 1999. At the same time, the level of activity in the care and care sectors in the municipalities is required to be at least at the same level as in the current year in order to trigger ear-marked supplements. In a situation where local authorities' costs are higher than income, this means that the other areas of expenditure in the municipalities have to take the cuts. A consequence of this may therefore be that some municipalities consider themselves forced to reduce the cost of basic education. Decisions to lay down and set up schools are the responsibility of the municipalities. These decisions are usually a follow-up to the long-term planning of municipalities. However, in the light of the general economic situation, I know that some municipalities consider that they should set up shelters for purely economic reasons. This may seem unfortunate. I do not have an overview of the cuts in the base sphere that are now being assessed in the municipalities. This is a part of local budget processes that have not yet been completed. There have been proposals for relatively many budget closures, but experience shows that fortunately only part of them leads to political decisions on closure. This was recently seen in an article in the nations, which had tried out the counsellor's proposal, how it still had in the municipal administration. As a result, in the context of the 1999 budget review, there are 50 million. kr in beauty cleaners for small sheds. These funds are not a general addition to small schools, but should be used in specific cases for individual municipalities in a particularly difficult economic situation. The funds shall help to strengthen the school sector in municipalities with small schools following a decentralised construction pattern. It is the county, in consultation with the education director, that evaluates the individual municipalities with a view to making possible use of discretionary means to support small schools. The county council will assess its financial situation and propose discretionary means to individual municipalities that have particular financial difficulties, which may have significant consequences for the school. In this context, the county has to pay attention to municipalities that lose a lot of time because of the loss of corporate tax as municipal income and have not been compensated for it. I mean 50 million. kr in the discretionary grant will be a good contribution to help with the situation in the municipalities where the small schools are threatened because of acute financial difficulties.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1456	I thank you for the answer, and especially for the fact that the council recognises that in a lot of municipalities the costs are now higher than the revenues, and that that means that they have to cut down. I am also pleased that the Council of State says that the funds should help to strengthen the school sector in municipalities that have small schools – I understand what the Council of State says, so that not only closures are considered but that the other important areas are also considered. What we know is that it is now cut in terms of temporary work arrangements, continuing training for teachers, allocations for textbooks, teaching materials, furniture, equipment – everything is cut. Is it correctly understood when I interpret the Council's response so that it is the school sector in general that is now to be assessed in the review of the state and ministry, and not just the situation in the municipalities where there are some schools to be closed?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1463	Here, as my answer also showed, there is a judgement that needs to be exercised, and one will have to go a little further than just considering the question of the number of schools and schooling. It is not possible, given that we have municipal self-government, to set a millimetre measure of how this discretion should be exercised, and I can therefore confirm that one will see more holistically on it, without saying that one will get a summation when it comes to the relationships that the representative Andersen made in his comment, but I confirm that it is implicitly embedded in that discretion.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1468	Then we go to question 20.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1474	I allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘For advice from a municipal institution, a student was given a postponed school start. [[PP service]] 12 years later, the same student was punished for this by a government institution with reduced scholarships when he went to public high school. [[Budget box]] Will the Council of State take steps to prevent the Borrowing Fund's rigid rules for the grant of public high school students from turning negative towards a student who, after counseling from experts, had to postpone schooling and therefore has a different year of birth from the average?'
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1483	First, I would like to make it clear that the Stortinget has taken decisions on the age limits of the education funding scheme, and this is followed by the regulations of the Lånekassa given by the Ministry. The Loan Fund has therefore acted correctly according to the regulations in force today. There are currently rules that ensure full support for those who have postponed schooling or have taken about one year in the basic school after expert judgement in the case of social benefits for VK II. The 1999 budget also decides to increase the age gap for those who, because of their health status, require four years of continuing training. When the Storting adopted in January 1997 the welfare rules for 19-year-olds who take public high school as a fourth year, there is reason to believe that one in the assessments did not have the public high school students who would be in their fourth year after they had postponed schooling or had taken over a year in the basic school after expert judgement. I can see that it may seem unreasonably that these do not come under the rule of exception in the public sphere, and I am positive about finding a solution because there is of course a change that makes these rules of exception hang together. I would like to point out that this will only apply to those who have postponed schooling or have gone in one year in the base school after expert judgement. I'm going to find a room for this within today's framework and implement this as a change in the regulations for existing school years, i.e. 1998-99. It would also be natural for students who, because of their health status, need to use one additional year of continuing training, to be involved from 1999-2000. With all the exceptions, the legislation on education funding is becoming unclear, and in this context, I would like to refer to the selection that the Ministry has now set down in the fall to review the scheme. The selection shall focus on the need for simplification and has also been mandated to assess the use of age dividers in education funding. But as a conclusion, it is quite clear that this youth and those in the corresponding situation will clearly experience it as being unfair, that after following a advice from one public authority, they will be punished by another public authority. So already in this school year, I want to meet what the questioner here has said.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1494	State Council Lilletun is a goodwill and sometimes ground-based person, and I would like to thank you for a very positive answer to this question. It seems quite unthinkable that a student who has gone 12 consecutive years to school with the 1979 coal should lose thousands of dollars because of a stiff leg code. It is true, as the Council of State says, that here it is not Lånekassa, but the regulations of the department that have prevented a positive solution. And I never think it would have been the Storting's intention that an interpretation of this decision should be so square. The Council of State's answer is one of the words of reason and a good Christmas gift to those in debt. Again – thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1506	This question, from the representative Inger Stolt-Nielsen to the Minister of the Church, Education and Research, is answered by the Minister of Justice as the appropriate officer.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1509	I have the following questions: ‘From the University of Bergen, there have been sharp reactions that foreign researchers and doctoral students are not granted extended residence time in Norway to complete the work they are doing. [[UiB]] According to Vice-Chancellor Bernt, this means that Norwegian universities and colleges are prevented from building up professional competences. These are conditions that in the long term reduce the quality of higher education. In the opinion of the Council of State, has Norway served to prevent the Foreign Affairs Directorate from building up the necessary competences at our teaching sites?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1518	Under the Foreign Affairs Act, it is up to the foreign authorities, including the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, to assess whether students and researchers meet the conditions for obtaining a residence permit in Norway. There are separate provisions in the Foreign Regulation relating to the residence permit or work permit of non-residents who are researchers before coming to Norway. Foreign students can take education in Norway, preferably at higher education and university level. The applicant must have admission at an approved training establishment. The Directorate of Foreign Affairs, in consultation with the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research, provides guidance on which educational institutions and studies are approved. Together with the application, the student submits his/her syllabus. The study plan gives an overview of the subject(s) or lines the student plans to take, thus reflecting what is considered to be a normal study period based on an educational assessment. In order to obtain a renewed student residence permit, it is a condition that the student has had satisfactory progress in education. An opinion on this is obtained from the university, which is compared with the previously submitted syllabus. For students who have not submitted a syllabus, the applicant’s information on future syllabuses, supplemented as appropriate by an academic opinion, has been taken into account. However, it is consistent practice to accept one year’s delay in training. If the student goes beyond the allowed delay, a concrete assessment of the reasons for this becomes crucial as to whether the student is still continuing the studies. This is particularly relevant when the studies go to the end. Doctoral students are covered by the rules applicable to students in general. Such studies usually have a duration of three years. In practice, however, we have seen that some students are involved in new projects or investigations, so that the doctoral study is drawn out in time. In this context, it seems important that both students and universities are familiar with the legislation, so that the curriculum does not go beyond the curriculum. Once the student has completed the studies according to the syllabus, the course is considered to have completed and the student is to return to his home country. As a general rule, he/she will not receive a work permit in Norway until after five years of residence outside the country. However, a foreigner who has completed higher education in Norway may, according to practice, obtain an initial work permit without staying outside the country, provided that he or she came to Norway as a student before 1994 and fulfils the conditions for obtaining a work permit as a specialist. In order to obtain such a permit, it is among other things. conditions under which there is a specific job offer, that the applicant has a competence which is absolutely necessary for the activity and that the job cannot be filled with domestic labour. Foreigners’ authorities have an ongoing assessment of the appropriateness of the immigration-regulating conditions of the foreign regulation. We see that it is important for universities and colleges to build up their professional skills, but emphasise that the teaching establishments must incorporate the legislation that provides a framework for students to stay, so that the initial arrangements can be completed according to the original syllabus.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1535	I register that I have received a long response, but I have not received an answer to what I asked for. What I asked about was not what the legislation is, what the rules apply. What I asked about was whether, in the opinion of the Council of State, it is appropriate that the development of competence at Norwegian universities and higher education institutions is hindered by the Directorate of Foreign Affairs. I am aware that the Foreign Affairs Directorate is following guidelines, but guidelines are changing. My question was: Does the Norwegian universities and colleges serve that a code is run so rigidly that the principal at a university says this is a loss of competence for Norway? When researchers coming to Norway feel suspicious and wounded, what effect will it have when Norway enters into international research cooperation? I ask again: are Norwegian universities and colleges served by this practice?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1542	I must stress that the regulations and guidelines that have been drawn up have been drawn up in the light of the legal framework. We experience in a lot of fields that there are groups that are still pointing out that there might be things that might seem incomprehensible. Then I just want to show that, in a good deal of context, we also have to expect that we are dealing with the law and regulation that exist when planning how to use foreign researchers. I would also like to ask that those who experience such unfairness come to the Minister of Church, Education and Research or to me, and we should try to include this in the cooperation that we naturally have in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1552	I would like to ask the Minister of Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘In circular F-51/98, the Ministry makes a clarification of the previous circular on documentation on the practical requirements for reporting to the theoretical part of the subject. For professional drivers, heavy-duty vehicles, the practice of both bus and heavy-duty vehicles is required. Professional training students practice the code differently because of somewhat unclear signals from the ministry. Will the State Council, in accordance with the decision of the Training Council, clarify to the participants that a percentage breakdown of different types of practice shall not be required?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1561	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1566	Rolf Rekvam for additional questions. – This was a relatively eloquent response to the President’s assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1569	Yes, thank you – that was a clear answer. It's not always that clear, so I just want to say thank you for the clear and unambiguous answer. The next round is that the department follows this up with a circular to the denominators, so that many people do not have problems taking a professional test, among other things. because they do not practice both from the bus and heavy duty vehicle. So once again, thank you to the Council of State, and I expect this to happen quickly. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1576	It is said many times to thank Lilletun State Council today. Questions 23 and 24 are already answered.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1584	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘Section 15-5 of the Social Security Act provides for the granting of social benefits to cover orthopaedic aids. In order to clarify the law and regulation, the Rikstrygdeverket has developed guidelines for the award of such benefits. Until May 1997, the assessment of granting benefits was based on the functionality of the insured person. The guidelines were then changed. Now benefits are granted only to insured persons with specific diagnostics. What were the reasons for the changes in the guidelines made by the Rikstrygdeverket?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1593	In the event of permanent and significant dysfunctions in support and stirrers, social benefits can be provided from the public interest to essential orthopaedic aids, which are requested by a doctor. The social welfare regulations for orthopaedic agents are provided by the Ministry of Social and Health. This regulation does not require a user to have a special diagnosis. In a circular to the social security offices, the Rikstrøgdeverket has provided more detailed guidance on the practice of the legislation. In the circular, it is called individual modes that cannot be considered as significant malfunctions. This has been done both in the last round and in previous rounds, so this is nothing new since 1997. Due to different practices at social security offices, the Rikstrygdeverket made some clarifications in the circulars in connection with the introduction of new people’s rights as of 1 May 1997. Greater emphasis was placed on the need for a good basis for the need for the orthopaedic device. In a number of areas, the National Agency also found it advisable to give an example of what diagnostics usually lead to significant dysfunctions and other diagnostics that usually do not lead to such dysfunctions. The Rikstrøgdeket’s circular does not require certain diagnostics. The newsletter also does not exclude patient groups from benefit to orthopaedic aid if they have a special diagnosis. This is how the disabled person determines whether the conditions for the benefit are met. A diagnosis may never be more than an indication. In order to ensure that users receive the help they need under the current legislation, I will take the initiative to make this clear in the Rikstrøgdeverket’s guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1608	I thank the Council of State for the answer. On the right, this case was raised because the practice of the Rikstrøgdeverket’s guidelines on the granting of aid to orthopaedic aids meant that a number of patients who have previously received support for such aids would no longer receive it. Many of these patients have to live with the plague and have a significantly reduced quality of life because they cannot afford to pay for it themselves. We've got more examples of this. I am therefore pleased and satisfied that the Council of State will now look into practices and guidelines and clarify that it is the patient's functionality and not diagnosis that should be essential for the granting of support. I trust that the Minister of Social Affairs, since she agrees that there may have been an unfortunate practice here, will immediately ensure that this will cease, so that the patients concerned can get the help they require under the law. So again, thank you to the council for a positive answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1622	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘Recently, the number of homeless people in Oslo has increased during the last year. Unfortunately, it turns out that very young people represent the greatest increase. The problems are complex, because these people who usually have both drug problems, lack work and last, but not least lack a place to live. What overall measures can the Government intend to take, if necessary in cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo, to do something about this development?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1631	As the representative Gaundal says, there are compound reasons why people become homeless. This requires both different relief measures and a holistic approach to the problems. After I invited City Councillor Erling Lae in the municipality of Oslo, we had a meeting yesterday on several topics, including: the situation of the homeless in the capital. He then briefed about the plans of the municipality to meet the problems of the homeless. Among other things, the Oslo City Council will promote the ‘social housing programme’ of the city council in the near future. I would like to stress that the Government's policy is to focus the search light equally on homeless people in all municipalities. A housing policy where housing policy instruments are linked to social policy instruments is generally important if living conditions for the weakest in society are to be improved. I would remind you that in the spring of 1998, the Government presented a big message on the busting of young and disadvantaged people, St. gemeld. No 49 for 1997-98. It points out that municipalities need to create local action plans as a basis for a holistic policy for those who have problems in the housing market, especially those without housing. The message also warns that municipalities must use the Husbank's knowledge and incentives to develop these plans. On the basis of these plans, the House Bank can more effectively provide additional and reasonable loans in order to increase the supply of hard-to-use services. The Stortningsbericht will be handled by the Stortingen in February 1999. In addition, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has reviewed the situation of disadvantaged people in the housing market in Oslo with the municipality in order to identify the problems. There seems to be still a need to strengthen auxiliaries in a number of municipalities, so that they can manage the problem of homeless people in a good way in general and in relation to the individual. This year we have worked on an action plan for the social services’ 1st line service, which aims at raising the quality and competence of their work with clients with complex needs. This applies not least to those who abuse drugs and suffer from mental illness. I would also like to show that we have recently provided a big message on rehabilitation, which has been given the heading «Responsibility and maestering towards a holistic rehabilitation policy», St. report. No 21 for 1998-99. This is where the Government puts the government, among other things. emphasis on the creation of holistic individual plans for people who need it. In general, the development of such individual plans could also be an important measure to prevent the individual from becoming homeless. People without housing will often be among the worst in Norway. It is therefore particularly important to put the search light on their situation. The government will just take up life for the homeless in the Lifestyle Equalization message that is scheduled to be submitted to the Storting in the spring session. We aim at a wide review of current measures that can help to prevent and reduce the problem of housing. We will include: look at measures that may be more protracted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1655	I thank the Council of State for the answer. From the Salvation Army it is pointed out that it has established more or less a fixed group of circulation users of about 100 people entering and leaving housing and treatment facilities. One question, therefore, is whether it is possible to establish more flexible treatment systems, especially for the old drug users, so that work on young people can be more concentrated. There is also a need for lowthreshold services based on the fact that some have made it impossible to obtain accommodation over time and therefore do not have access to current accommodation in Oslo, and that they have gradually established themselves on blacklists. My question to the Council of State is: Is this a group that the Municipality of Oslo thinks is done with? Shouldn't there be opportunities to get another offer? It cannot be that blacklisting will apply to all future human beings. What low-threshold services do state councils think it is possible to make, winter can be cold and long for some of the homeless.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1666	The representative Gaundal addresses an important but also difficult question. There are no simple solutions here, but it is very important to discuss different measures. I am pleased that the situation for the homeless is on the agenda in many municipalities, including in the municipality of Oslo. City councillor Erling Lae informed me yesterday that they have a close cooperation with the Salvation Army. And that's all reason to commend the commitment of the Salvation Army in this area and also the download and the valuable supplement that they are for what the public can offer. The municipality of Oslo may have to answer for itself, but as far as I know, they don't think they're done with the question. They have an emergency room, and they have free room per room. date. And I'm going to follow this closely forward.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1678	‘The size has requested that A/S Vinmonopolet re-evaluate its planned re-conversion from 1 January 1999 so that, in particular, the cheapest wines do not become more expensive. If the effect of the decision on lower alcohol levies is not lifted in order to reduce border trade. The Governing Council has accepted the decisions of the Governing Council of the A/S Vinmonopole to consider first any amendments on 1 May 1999. Why has the Council of State failed to comply with the Storting's clear intention not to implement the margin conversion as of 1 January 1999?"
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1685	A multiple in Stortinget asks for a comment in Innst. S No 40 for 1998-99 that the planned margin conversion at the A/S Vinmonopolet will be reconsidered. In my letter to Stortinget on 8 December, I have done my best for my case handling so far. In its Decision of 3 December 1998, the Board of Governors of the A/S Vinmonopolet pointed out, in substance, that a conversion is not possible from 1 January onwards. On the other hand, the Governing Board will assess the calculation model with a view to possible changes from 1 May 1999. In my opinion, the decision provides a reasonable time frame. I understand the board's handling of this matter. I would like to recall that the Board of Directors of A/S Vinmonopolet, which in other companies owned by the State, has a separate responsibility for all trade decisions. Under the alcohol laws, the A/S Vinmonopolet’s purchasing activity — within the framework of an alcohol policy — must be carried out under normal trading conditions. It shall be tailored to demand and ensure equal treatment. This also applies to the definition of a career model. There are also signs to ensure transparency of the price fixing of the A/S Vinmonopole, and in particular equal treatment of products and suppliers. In this way, the controller cannot simply create a calculation model that means that the cheapest wines in particular will not be more expensive. Otherwise, the effect of the decision on lower taxes on alcohol depends on several factors, including: wholesale prices and exchange rate changes. I believe that the Stortinget will understand that the Board of Directors of the A/S Vinmonopolet in this matter has an independent responsibility and will have to be able to carry out a new case management within a progress plan that is itself justified, and I will come back to Stortinget with a briefing when a new decision is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1696	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I have to say that I am quite surprised that the Council of State is so comfortable and accepts the management of the board here. It is not an evaluation or an assessment of the majority of the population has asked for it, it is a reassessment, and in terms of parliamentary vocabulary, I think it is relatively easy to understand that it means that the majority of people want this margin conversion not to be implemented. And it is not right, as far as I know, to say that the Vinmonopole does not have the opportunity to reverse this decision with effect from 1 January. In 1996, when we had the old balancing system, they got tax decisions about this time, so to speak, that they don't have time, is to explain away. It's training, and I think it's very serious if the Council of State makes it right and looks at and accepts that the monopoly of wine is deliberately training an expressed wish from the Storting, a wish expressed both by the new decision of the Storting and by the majority comment that the Council of State itself referred to. So I'm going to ask her again to reconsider this, so to make the wine monopoly realize that they will survive, they should act in a different way.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1703	In my view, this is about the conditions under which the Board of Directors of the Vinmonopolet works, and there are clear guidelines for which the Board of Directors can conduct its own assessments. The fees and changes in them are something they have to deal with every year. They will also build a relationship with their wholesalers, their suppliers, and that is what created the problems within the time they now had at their disposal. Otherwise, the large number of alternating messages are given as to how badly it is desirable to intervene in the board's commercial activity. I refer to the product selection note, where the government was told not to intervene, and like the comment on self-density pole, where the Vinmonopole’s own assessments were to be added to the decisive weight.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1713	I also ask the following question to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘An elderly woman has been caring for her old mother for 5 1⁄2 years and has been credited with pension credits. When the mother died just before the summer, she was also told that she was not credited with care scores for 1998. An absolute requirement is that care has been undertaken for a total of at least 6 months in the calendar year. Will the Council of State take the initiative to amend the law so that long-term care work is credited even if it ceases before 6 months of a calendar year?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1722	Here the representative, Høegh, will receive a further reply. As you know, Social Security Law § 3-16 requires that the care provider has carried out care work at least half of the year in order for points to be given for care work. The points will then correspond to an income of well over 180,000 dollars in the same year. The main purpose of the care points scheme is that persons taking on care instead of income-generating work should not, for that reason, lose pension ignition. When care lasts less than half a year, it is usually possible to score points for income work in the other months of the year. That's how the arrangement would be reasonable enough. It may be doubtful that a single year with points of care can have a special impact on the pension. I find that the woman representative refers to, gets the social security office to calculate this. Although I think that half a year of care work is a reasonable requirement for points of this size, I said that this is a special situation for the person in question. From my point of view, it may appear that there is a need for an exception when long-term care is discontinued due to death. I want to make a closer assessment of a possible legal change in line with this.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1737	Yes, now I can also say with a feeling that I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was nice that from this point of view she would consider whether there should not be an exception in the law in such situations. I agree that it is reasonable that a care relationship should have lasted for a year to receive pension credits, but when there has been ongoing care work over several years, as in this case over five years, and the caring person dies about the middle of a year, it does not seem very unreasonable to credit the work that has been done. The woman in question, who also lives in Trondheim, is even soon a pensioner — it is often the case that there are older women who care for their older parents — so that there will be no alternative for her to try to get a job that year or six months is left of her working life. Therefore, I hope that the Council of State does not need too much time to come back and possibly contact the social security office up there, so that the woman in question can also be helped.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1747	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Recently, there have been several serious complications also with fatal outcomes in the use of scoop surgery in several hospitals. What has the Council of State done to improve the quality of this operational technique?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1756	There are statutory reporting systems in the healthcare system in case of accidents, complications and unexpected events: notification to the police of unnatural deaths under the medical law § 41 and notification to the county doctor of significant damage to patients under the hospital law § 18 a. Due to increased attention to accidents and complications and questions about the role of medical devices in this area, various reporting schemes from 1993 were brought together in a national reporting centre, located at the State Health Authority. It collects data from all hospitals and makes registration and categorisation in consultation with the hospital quality selection. Overall reports provide the healthcare community with the opportunity to receive feedback on the risk of complications associated with different medical procedures. In the annual report of the Reporting Centre for 1997 several technical procedures have been grouped together. This includes the use of different catheters in the heart and blood vessels, internal examinations with flexible ‘binoculars’, sampling or treatment with instrumentation during screening, as well as operations through rigid tubes — so-called ‘peripheral cuckoo’ surgery. The report includes serious complications and deaths related to such procedures. Although none of the deaths in 1997 were related to cuckoo surgery, reports of serious complications by the State’s health authorities are also linked to this technique. It is important to stress that all surgery and all technical procedures may be associated with complications. All in all, for example, bile surgery through binoculars did not result in more complications than traditional open surgery. It is also important to make comparisons with established techniques when introducing new methods. A part of this may be the creation of national quality registers in which hospitals report their results and compare with other environments. Such records have been shown to be useful and have, among other things, for cognition surgery revealed that there is a greater risk of complications in which the operator or hospital treats a small number of patients. I want to take the initiative to encourage the department to set up and operate more such registers. In the introduction of new technologies, it is important that there is a gradual dissemination of competences in relation to these methods. By Section 9(a) of the Hospital Act, the State has the possibility to regulate the prevalence of particularly costly and complex forms of treatment. Over the 1990s, this option has helped to create powerful environments of excellence in different disciplines. The Trondheim Regional Hospital is entrusted with a national task precisely for the development of methods and the dissemination of competences through the creation of a laparoscopic centre of competence. This is an important element of quality assurance in this area. In the context of regional health plans, there will be a need to describe within each health region the professional requirements on which the various services should be organised. Here, the issues of ensuring the right competence, adequate treatment and necessary training tasks will be addressed for each region, which I believe will also contribute to increased quality assurance.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1771	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I find reassuring. According to the same tasks of the State Health Authority to which the Council of State referred, 28 patients died in Norwegian hospitals in 1997 in connection with treatment with modern fiber optic equipment. A total of 118 patients were seriously injured in the same context. This, I personally think, is frightening numbers, because fiber optic equipment has been used in the country over several years. However, the scoop surgery has come to stay. It is a very good technique, which is gentle for patients, but in ignorant hands this technique can be directly life-threatening. My question to the Council of State is: should, in addition to the Centre of Competence at the Regional Hospital of Trondheim, be set up several national sites for training in the field of scoop surgery?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1780	I see it as a very central task for the national competence centre in Trondheim to contribute both to the development of the method itself and to the dissemination of knowledge and competence throughout the hospital system. Whether you need more centres of expertise from which knowledge is disseminated, and where quality assurance can be carried out in this way, I will not decide here and now, but it is a question I want to take with me in the further work. Anyway, I also want to focus on what I said in my first answer, that health planning will have an opportunity to define such tasks more precisely in relation to the individual regions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1788	I will be asked another question to the Minister of Health: ‘A family who lost its dependant during a mistreatment at a major hospital in the Eastern region was recently offered a scandalous compensation of NOK 153 000 from Norwegian Patient Indemnity Compensation. Will the Council of State take the initiative to amend the Norwegian Patient Indemnity Compensation Code in order to bring the amounts of compensation into line with other insurance schemes in the event of the loss of a dependant?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1797	The honourable representative criticises the compensation measure carried out by Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation on the basis of a concrete relationship with the loss of dependants. Without being able to decide on the specific case, I will give a more general explanation regarding the compensation measurement in this scheme. The temporary compensation scheme for patients Norwegian Patient Injury, abbreviated as NPE, entered into force on 1 January 1998. The scheme mainly covers public health services in Norway. The NPE is a system designed to strengthen patients’ legal protection, thus contributing to the smoother and faster settlement of claims than the courts. The rules governing the system for the purposes of the civil liability basis are objective, so that there is no need for intent or negligence on the part of the perpetrator under this scheme. It is therefore sufficient for the injured party to demonstrate a causal link between the injury and the treatment in question. For the purpose of measuring the amount of compensation, the NPE shall apply general compensation rules, as set out in: the Law on Compensation for Damage, Chapter 3. In the event of the loss of a dependant, Section 3-4 of the Act applies. Compensation for the loss of dependants is determined taking into account the extent of the dependance and the possibility for the survivors to contribute to their own livelihoods. If the death of the dependant for the deceased triggers requirements for other benefits, such as: as a general rule, these will be deducted from the eligible loss. Experience has shown that the need to strengthen the protection of patients in the event of damage to their rights has been the focus of less restrictive rules on the basis of liability for damages. The NPE has largely met this need for the above-mentioned objectiveisation of the rules of liability. In a short time, the government will promote a new law on the compensation of patients on the basis of the investigation and the proposals made at NOU 1992:6, such as: review the rules on the measurement of compensation in the event of injury to patients. It will provide the Stortinget with a broad review of the law in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1812	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and look forward to the Storting's treatment of new rules. I get very often enquiries from patients who have been exposed to accidents in somatic hospitals, who claim that the damages are more symbolic than real. It is also claimed that it takes an unreasonable amount of time to settle a question of compensation for Norwegian patients. Very rarely, patients receive financial upliftment, even if gross negligence has been shown by hospitals or doctors. Does the Minister of Health have the impression that Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation is too restrictive to pay compensation for damages, and is there a limit on the amount of such compensation initially established, including in the case of the loss of a dependant? For 153 000 kroner to a widow after a caregiver, as I say, is a little scandalous.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1821	I do not know what conditions lie behind the measurement that the representative Alvheim has referred to in his question. However, what is contained in the rules on compensation is that the measurement of the amount of compensation should be based on the general rules on compensation laid down in Chapter 3 of the Law on Compensation for Damage. As regards the question of the experience with Norwegian Patient Compensation, it is my general impression that Norwegian Patient Compensation has been well received and that it works well, taking into account what would be the alternative to such a public scheme. But I look forward to a broad review of the experience of the interim patient compensation system, and that we are now getting this on a permanent basis with the proposal that the Government will submit.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1832	I allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Health: ‘In the town of Hyllestad, they do not receive applicants for a midwife’s or permanent district employment. On the basis of this, two pregnant women applied for qualified maternity assistance in the neighbouring municipality, but were not reimbursed the travel expenses with a background in the rules of the law on social security. Social security refunds to the nearest delicacies, which in this case are temporary workers. Will the Council of State consider changing the popular protection clause at this point in the context of the proposal on permanent leaks and free hospitalisation?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1841	Social security provides benefits to cover travel expenses. For the purpose of the calculation of the social benefit, the rate of the cheapest mode of journey by means of regular services shall be taken to the nearest place where the necessary examination or treatment can be carried out. However, public health coverage covers travel expenses from the patient’s residence to the nearest doctor participating in the organised healthcare service in the same municipality, even if doctors in other municipalities are closer. After that, the social security office has dealt with the matter in accordance with the applicable legislation. However, the size now has an odelstningsproposition on the law on patients’ rights for treatment. With regard to the right to choose a hospital, the Government has proposed that travel expenses be shared between the patient and the public interest. The Ministry will return to the way in which the sharing of costs between the social security system and the patient is to be carried out in the context of the 2000 budget. In the consultation note to the permanent medical scheme, it is proposed that the rules on the reimbursement of travel expenses should be maintained in substance, in order to cover travel expenses to the nearest doctor in the municipality or the nearest contractual doctor in the neighbouring municipality with which the municipality cooperates. The permanent scheme shall be put into effect as from 1 January 2001. The Ministry intends to make a tender proposal for the Storting during the spring 1999 session. The ratio of travel expenses to travel expenses will be further assessed in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1856	I thank you for your answer. I notice that one has sent the refund scheme to Stortinget to allow it to be further processed. The system is that the patient and the board have to pay half of their own. I would like to point out that we are asking that the girls bus themselves in Utkan-Noreg. We're also making a lot of projects to get them to live in Utkan-Noreg. If we don't set things right, so that they can live there on equal terms with others in central terms, and don't have to take extra costs to cover key things like maternity care, I think we'll get a misguided district policy. I really hope that the Council of State and the Government are thinking about this particular point, because this is district policy to the highest degree.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1865	Let me first remind you that the current national law, after which this matter has been dealt with, was presented by the then Labour Party government and dealt with by the Storting as late as February 1997. Nevertheless, the Government will propose certain adjustments, especially related to free hospital choice. The government's proposals are not, as the representative Nistad may have perceived, that the public interest and patients should share the costs in the middle. There should be a sharing of expenditure, and where that division is going to go, we will come back in budgetary terms once the Patient Rights Act has been passed and will enter into force. In addition, the Stortinge will have the opportunity to assess this in the context of the primary health service, through the treatment of the legislation on the fixed medical system, which will come in the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1884	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1890	‘Troms and Finnmark have been selected as sample fillings for mammography screening. The assumption for this cancer study for all women between 50 and 69 years of age should be that it was fully funded by the country. Due to space problems, the Regional Hospital in Tromsø needs new buildings for approx. Twenty-four million. I'm going to have $5.1 million, but I'm going to have $5.1 million. krones. [[RiTø]] What will the Council of State do to complete the financing of this service so that also RiTø is included?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1897	The funds allocated to mammography screening projects are intended to go to investments and wages and salaries, and not to construction. In a letter from the Regional Hospital in Tromsø to the project management for the mammography project in September this year, a plan was presented for the realization of a screening unit at the Regional Hospital in Tromsø with a estimated construction cost of 7.2 million. kr. The plan is to install a new building on the roof of the garage in the C-flue at the hospital. Furthermore, on 16 November 1998, the Hospital Board decided to recommend to the County Municipality of Trom that the construction of the screening unit be financed by borrowing, provided that the State covers the real costs of equipment and operation. The Ministry's letter to the County of Troms on 9 December 1998 informs the County Council of the amount of 5,1 million. kr cannot be redisposed to barley. Instead, the Ministry claims that the construction of a screening unit is costing 7.2 million. kr, must be seen in the context of any other extension at the regional hospital. With regard to the need for mammography screening equipment, the Ministry intends to fully finance this. We are now in a transitional phase, from being a project in a few states to becoming a fully developed country-wide screening. The Ministry is now working on alternative models of how mammography screening should be organised and financed, both in a transitional/construction phase and in the long term, when mammography screening is established in all counties, and will return to the Budgetary downturn. The Ministry intends to inform the counties in a separate letter at the beginning of January 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1906	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In this case, a lot has happened since the question was submitted, and most of the things that have happened in this case are fortunately of a positive nature. In the case of full funding, Haukeland and Oslo have been fully financed. Haukeland received funds for conversion and Oslo received funds for rental. Furthermore, the County of Troms decided to borrow SEK 7.5 million. kr to new buildings, and I think that is positive. In the case of Troms and Finnmark, account must be taken of the large geographical distances and scattered settlements in these areas. Will the Council of State, when he comes back to this matter, take account of this with organisation and funding in view of the pattern of residence in the two northernmost states?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1917	In the case of the mammography screening grant, the undertaking given to the municipality of Troms has been given. As far as construction is concerned, it is true that we have a capital refund scheme, where the State provides reimbursement of capital expenditure in principle over the lifetime of the building. This grant will, of course, also be relevant in the extension of the hospital in Tromsø, as among others. includes the mammography screening unit.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1927	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘On several occasions from Stortinget, it has been highlighted that ear-nose neck is a priority bet area. Furthermore, it is clear that decentralised specialist health services in district municipalities are beneficial both for patients and for society. In the municipality of Balsfjord, however, the population now loses its ear-nose-neck specialist despite the fact that this would like to continue its practice here. What does the Council of State think can be done to ensure that Balsfjord retains this specialist?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1936	According to information I have obtained, the question concerns a doctor who has a permanent position as a municipal doctor in the municipality of Balsfjord. The doctor is a specialist in ear-nose neck disease, and would like to practice private specialist practice one day a week. However, without a county operating agreement, he does not receive operating grants or social security disbursement for such a practice. This is a consequence of the amendment adopted by the Stortinget in 1992, which lays down the conditions for social security disbursement that the professional has an operating contract. Under the hospital law, county councils are responsible for providing the necessary specialist health services. The needs may be met by hospital services or by operating arrangements with private practitioners. I cannot or will not focus on the priorities of the individual county council in terms of the scope and geographical location of specialist agreements. However, I have been informed that the matter comes up in the Health and Social Committee in Troms in February. Otherwise, I can inform you that the scope of the operation agreement in Troms has been tripled by the reform that was implemented per year. 1 July of this year under the heading «New policy on contract for private health professionals». According to the Central Statistical Office, a total of 6.4 years of operation of medical specialists and psychologists had been completed by the end of 1997. None of these were specialists in ear-nose neck disease. As from 1 July 1998, new operating agreements corresponding to 12,8 annual works, of which one full operating agreement with ear-nose neck specialist, have been concluded. I don't have any trouble seeing the sense of having a ear-nose-semi-practice in the municipality of Balsfjord. However, I must stress that it is the responsibility of the county council to assess the need for specialist services and to dimension the services afterwards, including through the conclusion of the required number of operating agreements. In this context, there is nothing to prevent a doctor from combining the position of a municipal doctor with contract practice as a specialist.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1947	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am concerned that the best possible arrangements should be made for us to be able to hold specialists who will operate in the districts. For the districts, these persons are gold worth. I am convinced that this specialist in Balsfjord saves many patients too much suffering because of significantly reduced travel distance. In addition, society is saved for high travel costs. That's why this question is important in principle. I have noted the answer. I hope that the Municipality of Troms has also done so, and I hope that this specialist will still be able to run his business in the municipality of Balsfjord.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1957	I have a question for the Minister of Health: ‘There is a public dental recruitment crisis, with a total of 90 job vacancies unoccupied on a national basis. With the large dental deficiency, it will be impossible to maintain the offer that children, young people and other groups of the population are entitled to according to the law on dental services. What immediate measures will the Council of State propose?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1966	Statistics from 1992 onwards show an annual unemployment rate in dental positions of 7 pst. in the public dental service on a national basis. In 1997, the figure was down to 5 p.m., but the situation has worsened in 1998 and gives cause for concern. The reason for a worsening manning situation, especially in North Norway, is that access to Nordic dentists has been minimal. At the same time, there has been a growth in the private sector. The situation in the future will not improve as far as applicants from the Nordic region are concerned. At the same time, we will experience that more dentists are retiring than they are trained. The Nordic countries have implemented different instruments, such as: flexible pay systems, additional holiday arrangements, financing of professional courses, grant schemes, etc., and in other counties, measures of an economic nature are proposed. The terms and conditions of employment are a matter of negotiation between the Dental Association and the Municipal Councils, and the parties have been in contact with each other to discuss this issue. In the 1999 budget, funds have been allocated, inter alia, to: human resources, incentives and investigation work. The Ministry will follow developments closely and will, in particular, contribute to increasing access to dental practitioners from the EEA territory. In this context, it would be appropriate to extend the cooperation with the Doctoralevery Project, in particular with regard to the offer of Norwegian language courses, to also apply to EEA researchers. The Directorate of Labour has been in contact with the German labour market seat and received positive feedback. The Ministry will also follow up the project ‘Stableness and quality of Northern Norwegian dental care’. On the basis of an evaluation report, we have asked the State Health Authority to make proposals for relevant incentives for this region in particular. The Ministry has also asked the University of Tromsø to obtain an interim report from the research work on dental training in Tromsø. The report shall describe the Norwegian dental market in the past and present and in the future, geographical dimensioning and distribution of public/private activities. In the light of the report, the Ministry will decide on measures, including: whether it is appropriate to propose state regulation of the dental market. The dental market and effects of different measures are a field that the ministry will follow closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1979	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is quite right that access to Nordic dentists in Norway has decreased. It looks like it's worse to recruit dentists at all – that the fine nature we have, and other things that are attractive in the northern part of the country, are not enough anymore. We also know that there is a fumigation in the dental sector, among other things. in North Norway. The average age is between 50 and 60 years. Governments mentioned some incentives. As far as I know, there are mixed experiences with them. There is one system that works, I understand, and it is the commission system that was introduced in the 1970s. Otherwise, it's very mixed experiences. Wages and salaries are very important, as the parties negotiate until now, but here I think there are things that can be done. It will take a long time for us to be able to get new places of study in North Norway. For example, the Council of State will assess the purchase of study places. in neighbouring countries — Umeå may be relevant — or other measures to ensure more Norwegian dentists?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e1990	I have concentrated my answer on the more short-term measures, because I understood it so that the question is specifically directed towards it. But I readily agree with the representative Hedstrøm that expanding education capacity is an important tool. We know that the expansion of education capacity in Norway, and perhaps especially in the regions where the shortage is greatest, is among the more effective instruments we can use. We have that experience from medical training. It is experience that we have in assessing the question of where and how training capacity should be increased. We do so in close cooperation with the Ministry of Church, Education and Research, which naturally has the primary responsibility here. I take with me the signals that the representative Hedstrøm has given in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e2000	‘Many wear and tear with problems of mutual understanding. Due to professional dissatisfaction between individuals and opticians, patients do not have access to current forms of treatment recognised abroad. Optometrist Alf Opheim at Voss has for many years been helping patients with despair, with very good results in this area. He has now received a warning from the Health Inspectorate, which myst Opheim’s treatment offer is not in accordance with the Optician Ordinance § 9. What can be done to ensure that patients have their right to a treatment that has appeared to work?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e2007	Public health surveillance is entrusted with the supervision of health professionals. The warning provided by the Health Care Professional Act on infringements of the provisions of the Optician Regulation is a relationship between the one in question and the State Health Care Authority. I do not want to comment on the reaction that the State Health Authority has found to have to impose on this optic. The case dates back to 1992 and has since been resumed several times without the Health Authority having found the basis for changing its position. However, in December 1998, the Civil Ombudsman asked the Ministry to reconsider whether there has been a basis for giving Opheim a warning. This will be done. The issue of co-consensual problems, or so-called latent scoring, has dealt with professional environments among eye doctors, opticians and educators in Norway throughout the 1990s. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research and the State Health Authority have been involved in the discussion. I am aware that there is a professional disagreement in the treatment of consensual disorders, in particular the use of prism glasses, by obvious or latent scoring. A group of eye doctors and opticians have great faith in the treatment of consensual problems with prism goggles and feel that this is too little used. National health authorities have informed that this has been supported in some optics environments abroad. Health surveillance does not provide information that this is generally recognised or widespread abroad in general. According to the Health Authority, the majority of the Norwegian trade union community believes that small breakage defects and latent peeling should not be treated with glasses. However, pre-treatment with prism goggles may be relevant in some patients prior to surgery. In particular, in the light of the disagreement in the professional community over the treatment of social disorders, the State Health Authority set up a working group in 1995 to review issues relating to social problems, the use of price glasses and the importance of mutual understanding problems for reading and writing difficulties. It appeared from this review that no major epidemiological studies have been conducted which could provide a basis for conclusion on treatment. Since then, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Church, Education and Research in cooperation have started work on a monitoring project. A pre-project report has been prepared which has been consulted. Sintef has been commissioned to carry out the main project ‘vision and reading at 6th grade’. The project shall estimate the extent and severity of read-related vision problems and evaluate selected measures against read-related visual spots, including full correction with prisms. It is expected that on the basis of this project, a little more could be said about the most appropriate measures. The project started this year and is expected to end in 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e2020	I am pleased that the Minister of Health will follow up with the Scivilombodsmann's call to review the case, and I hope he will look at the case in the light of the new slogan, which is the «patient in the centre». It is high time that the patient was given the right to be informed about his or her own illness and various treatment options that may be relevant. It is a net that Opheim has been practicing for all years, and that has provoked some lizards – they have perceived him as nurturing and provocative. Several of the patients who come to Opheim have many operations behind them in the health care system, with failed results, and once they come to Opheim, a lot of them have actually received help. This case goes back a long way. All in 1984 there was a letter from the current Prime Minister about the cases. I would like to ask the following questions: Will the Minister of Health ask himself on the patient's side and intervene in this professional dispute? Will the Minister of Health consider giving strabismus optometry a special status, and will he be released under Section 9d, so that it is not used to interpret a purely professional interest, so that patients are prevented from getting an offer that has seemed to work?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e2029	Yes, the Minister of Health will stand on the side of patients, and there is some background to the fact that a screening project has actually been started that is going to try to cut through what I don't want to call a professional dispute, but a professional disagreement. It is crucial – I think – that we seek to create the greatest possible degree of professional consensus on what is good and proper treatment for patients. It is also caring for patients' interests. So I hope that the research-related work that is now being started will just provide such a basis and thus be a safer platform to decide what is a good and proper treatment for these plagues.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e2037	This question, from the representative of Trond Helleland to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e2040	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘Heinsetter tourist cabin at Hardangervidda has applied for permission to build a wind farm to replace the use of fossil fuels in electricity generation by aggregates. Local authorities have recommended this, while the State body which is the administrative authority of the national park has refused the construction of wind turbines. Will the Council of State ensure that the construction of environmentally friendly wind turbines at Heinseter tourist cabins is authorised?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e2049	It is true that the owner of Heinseter tourist cabin, located within Hardangervidda National Park, for some time ago applied for the installation of a wind farm for electricity production to replace a diesel unit. The application also covered the construction of a fuselage and gas storage add-ons, as the owner also applied for the installation of a gas-powered power unit. The case was dealt with by State Forest in accordance with the national park protection provisions, such as: an inspection was carried out in the area in September 1997. The owner was authorised by letter of 31 December 1997 to build a fuselage, to set up gas storage facilities at the main cabin and gas storage facilities/aggregator/battery bank rooms at the shed, but was refused the wind power project. The reason for the refusal was the administrative skepticism of introducing a wind farm as a foreign element in the national park and not knowing enough about how such a measure would affect the clean-up of the wild. It was also said in the rejection that electricity consumption should be reduced to a minimum, and that using gas as an energy source would achieve an environmental benefit in relation to the use of diesel ‘without causing discomfort to game or people’. I pointed out that the Vilrein subject for Hardangervidda did not advise that the wind power project was authorised. The decision to reject the application for wind power plant was appealed, but was recently rejected by the Directorate for Nature Management. The rejection of the complaint is justified by the fact that the measure will lead to landscape disadvantages and that experience with such wind turbines is limited, inter alia. with regard to operational safety under extreme weather conditions, such as ice-cream etc. The Directorate considers that it would not be appropriate to test the potential adverse effects of such wind turbines within a national park, including: in relation to the wild train. The Directorate points out that other forms of energy should be selected, and shows here, for example: to solar cells in combination with a gas aggregate. The Ministry has received a letter from the complainant last week with a complaint. We will deal with the enquiry in the usual way, and I therefore do not think it is right now to make further comments on this specific matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e2058	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that she cannot give any final answer as long as the matter is under consideration. I would like to point out a few moments that I hope the Council of State will pay attention to in the further proceedings. There is, of course, a clear political objective to focus more on renewable resources. It is true that Heinseter is in the middle of Hardangervidda, and that the tourist cabin today has its main supply of energy from a gas unit. This involves the transport of gas containers in a highly vulnerable landscape. The Directorate for Nature Management, which now finally responded to the application after 10 months of treatment after this question had been submitted, recommended among others. the use of solar cells. It would, if one were to meet the power demand there, involve 125 solar panels, size 1 x 0.5 m, not exactly realistic or especially aesthetic. In addition, there is a bridge at Heinseter, which extends 10 m above the ground, and the windmill is thought to be located in connection with the bridge. I hope the Minister for the Environment will take a positive look at the application from Heinzeter, and that one can see this as a test project to gain experience with windmills in this landscape and in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e2069	Let me first say that the Directorate of Natural Management does not suggest that you should rely only on solar cells, but in combination with a gas unit, and then probably the extent of the solar panels will be somewhat less. I am also pleased that the representative of Greece understands that I cannot go into the matter more specifically as long as I have a complaint for treatment. I agree that the issues he raises are important to emphasise when assessing the complaint. There is a clear ambition on the part of the Government to revitalise the use of renewable energy sources. I also want to say that at present there is a management plan for the protection areas of Hardangervidda, and I think it would be natural and sensible to have a review of what kind of energy sources will be the most environmentally friendly alternatives combined for the type of activity that this is intended for.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e2079	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: ‘Statoil operates the Norneship and sought early in the fall State pollution control to demobilise the additional oil bilge vessel stationed in the field. [[SFT]] They wanted to use their own ship, which is a 22-foot Malo tugboat. When the equipment was tested on 3 November 1998, after being imposed by the SFT, the tugboat sank during work in good weather. With this in mind, does the Council of State feel that the oil protection preparedness is satisfactory?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e2088	The exercise referred to in the question was held on 3 November with an observer from the State pollution control system. During the exercise, the equipment worked according to plan, but in connection with the removal of the bilge, the workboat was filled with water by a criminal lake, and edged. The crew was immediately taken up by the sea, and the boat was also mountained. Statoil reported on the exercise on 18 November this year. The shipping company has now ordered a new boat, and SFT has received specifications on it. The SFT has instructed Statoil to keep an additional tugboat in the field until satisfactory verification of the new workboat has been carried out. This has not yet been completed due to bad weather. The SFT will decide on the report when it is available. Statoil has also built an oil recorder adapted to the special characteristics of the Norne oil. The recording capacity is therefore good. The drainage capacity is also good enough, because since 1996, an additional towing vessel has been stationed on the Norwegian coast. If satisfactory verification of the capacity of the new workboat as a towing vessel is carried out, no further requirements will be imposed on Statoil’s field preparedness at this stage. On the basis of the incident on Norne, I will take the initiative to work on the type-approval of a towing vessel for emergency oil pollution preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e2099	: I thank the Council of State for the answer, an answer I can say that I am satisfied with, especially the last part, that there is now to be guidelines for the type of tugboat to be used. It's amazing that you haven't had such guidelines in the past. When it is said in the SFT report that it was a crime lake that filled the boat, it is mildly a very strong exaggeration! The picture of the boat in the field on the current day shows that it was good weather. It was probably no more than a light breeze. And then when you're going to operate with oil protection equipment maybe in small to stiff coaling, I think -- from a maritime point of view -- it's ridiculous that Statoil is allowed to operate at all with such a poor capacity. And it's amazing that the state's pollution control department has not taken this seriously in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e2106	As I said in my first answer, Statoil is required to have an extra tug on the field until it is demonstrated that the new tug boat is satisfactory. If the tests show that the new boat will work as required, no further requirements will be imposed on Statoil’s field preparedness at this stage. In this it is that the authorities have made the necessary demands to ensure the special conditions of the Norwegians. But all experience shows that there can be no guarantee that accidents will not happen in the future in such an area. In this case, the SFT has followed the development of oil protection on Norne very carefully and made specific demands to capture the special conditions in the field. As is well known, production in the field was halted earlier this year, pending better recording equipment. The SFT will continue to follow the preparedness development in the Norne field.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e2116	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘In Norway, a good deal is being done to combat pollution on land. We know that in the sea outside the Norwegian coast there are many sources of pollution. According to Alcatel STK ASA, there are, among other things, between 600 and 800 power cables that are mature for recording. The environment is gradually expanding on the cables, and we're getting environmentally hazardous emissions. Does the Council of State see this as a problem, and what will the Council of State do to ensure that conditioned sea cables are properly handled?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e2125	Underwater power cables are used in electricity transmission both to the mainland and offshore. Most of them are relatively thin. The cables contain copper and lead and are surrounded by an oily sleeve. State network reports that no hazardous pollutants have been used in the oil. Copper, lead and oil are slightly dispersed from the cable. Some thin-flowing oil may leak out of the cable, but it is rapidly broken down into seawater. Therefore, following SFT’s assessment, the cables do not present a significant environmental problem today, but there is a need to assess the long-term environmental impact of possible submerged cables. It is Norway's watercourse and energy directorate that manages the legislation relating to electric sea cables. According to the Energy Act, cleaning is required when major electrical installations – such as sea cables – are removed from service. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has launched a three-year investigation programme to elucidate the consequences of different disposal solutions for pipelines and cables used in offshore activities. This work will be completed by the end of 1999. The investigation programme consists of a number of sub-projects that highlight different aspects of the issue. Cables will be affected by a sub-project entitled «Impacts on habitats of different disposal options for pipelines and cables». The purpose of the investigation programme is to provide the basis for the formulation of a policy on the disposal of pipelines and cables linked to Norwegian oil and gas activities. When the investigation is available, it would be natural to assess the policy also for cables that have not been connected to the offshore industry. To sum up, disassembled sea cables do not present a significant pollution problem today. We are assessing whether the cables constitute a possible future environmental problem and whether stricter regulation is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e2136	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is a little reassuring that there is now an investigation programme going on to look at these problems. But I think it sounds a little suspicious when you know that these cables are there for 40-50 years, and you know they contain 10 kg of lead per. m. It's quite reassuring, when you know that it's not allowed to use lead hail for hunting because of environmental pollution. I therefore hope that the Council of State can help to draw up a regulation that clarifies the responsibility and imposes the admission of boarded sea cables. I believe that these cables should be raised and recovered for resource and pollution reasons. Of course, the oil will run out over a long time, and that is environmentally harmful, we can at least agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e2145	As I said in my first answer, it is already such today that according to the regulations of the Energy Act, cleaning is required when major electrical installations, such as sea cables, are removed from service. One of the things that needs to be assessed in the work now under way is whether the legislation is strict enough to ensure it. But I want to mention that this is one of several major challenges we face in terms of pollution along our coast. That's also why the government has chosen to give priority to three things in particular: it's cleaning up contaminated marine sediments in the fjords, we've finally started investigating the six most dangerous wrecks of ours in order to remove the pollution hazard from them, and we've also started monitoring and prioritizing shipyard measures, because we see that these pose a major risk of pollution, especially from environmental poisons. That's first of all what we're doing now, while also investigating whether the navigables will pose an environmental problem in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e2155	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: «In Time Municipality, the federal authorities have claimed 15 million. builder’s crowns to release the most completed residential area. The area will then be difficult to develop due to high land costs. The current practice of such interventions generally contributes to a weakening of legal awareness in this important area of protection. Will the Council of State ensure that procedural procedures are in place to prevent private and socio-economic losses resulting from ‘temporary’ memoranda?’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e2164	The matter to which the representative Johnsen refers is, in these days, for the final consideration as a matter of complaint at the Riksantikvaren. I therefore do not think it appropriate to comment on the specific issues related to this particular case. The Ministry receives a number of enquiries on the relationship between the planning and building regulations and the provisions of the Cultural Memory Act on archaeological excavations. In my view, it gives a wrong picture of the situation to claim that compliance with the cultural memory law today happens arbitrarily, and that this generally contributes to weakening the legal certainty of this field. My experience is that issues relating to the release of automatically protected cultural memories, the conditions of archaeological excavations and the obligation to cover persons in action are implemented in accordance with the rules of procedure laid down in the Cultural Memory Act and the Administrative Act. I understand that the cultural memory law's requirement for excavations can be perceived as conflicting with the desire for a smooth and cost-effective implementation of actions. Implementation of development measures usually requires coordination with and authorisation under different laws. For the action holder, costs related to the examination of applications and conditions related to any permits, including under the Culture Memory Act, will often arise. Expenditure related to meeting the cultural memory requirements is therefore, in principle, expenditure in line with other expenditure incurred on development projects, which must be taken into account in the total cost of the project. Practice shows that the cost of archaeological excavations rarely forms an essential part of the total cost of the project. In cases where there are many automatically protected cultural memories in the building site, the cost may be of such a magnitude that it may be appropriate to make State contributions. Against this background, I do not believe that there is any basis for changing the main principles of today's legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e2177	I did not ask that this matter be the basis for the answer – I just referred to the condition as it is. But it goes without saying that a land disposal according to a confirmed municipal plan becomes illusory if a professional authority is given the opportunity, at its discretion, to change the land use in the final phase of the process. It's also a big weakness when it's the same instance that decides what to do. For example, the same people decide what to investigate and how much this costs. They are themselves responsible for the excavations and decide when they are to be carried out. In reality, we're talking here about this is a tax right given to the archaeological institutions. Does the Minister think this is a satisfactory arrangement in today's society?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e2184	As I said in my previous answer, I believe that cultural memory policy is basically working well, and sees no need to change the main lines of the policy we have today. In the case of the situation of a State body, such as: The Riksantikvarn, who has the opportunity to intervene after a plan has been made by the municipality, must also be seen in the context of the municipality's obligation to take national guidelines into account in cultural memory policy. Then automatically protected cultural memories, and not least archaeologically interesting findings, are important to take care of, both for our common cultural heritage and for our common sense of identity. I don't think you should underestimate the importance of finding your roots through these memories in the communities as well. At the same time, of course, it is important to have a smooth and sensible handling of the issues that arise. So that's why the state has the opportunity to go in with funds where there are a lot of automatically peaceful memories in the real world.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e2191	So the question mark is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-16.ana.ud1579e2200	There is no record.
