ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e56	The formerly temporarily exempted alternate of the Hordaland County, Kurt-Arne Langeland, has now taken its seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e64	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e69	I'd like to suggest Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e74	Asmund Kristoffersen is proposed as president of today's meeting. – Other proposals are not available, and Asmund Kristoffersen is unanimously elected president. Before the proceedings are brought, the President will propose that the Storting should depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and make a total vote after that date. 1 and 2 on the current map have been completed, and then total voting according to case No. 3-6 at the end of today's meeting. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e90	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 60 minutes, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party 25 minutes each, Right 20 minutes, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes each and the Left and Twist Party elected 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e101	I will first address the proposal on which the Workers' Party and SV are united. The budget of the Municipal Committee reflects roughly the conciliation reached between the Centre Parties and the Right and the Advance Party in the Financial Institution. The working party and SV are on their own and together on some proposals, and on some points the committee is unanimous. After the budget agreement was concluded, the papers have been full of reports of possible closures of kindergartens and some schools to next year. It will be a very tight municipal economy for next year, and it will go beyond the provision of services in a good number of municipalities. Babysitting is going to have a new emergency brake with the state budget that has now been adopted. The bourgeois parties want to set up under 2,500 kindergartens next year, while we would have 12,500, so that one could have given to anyone who wants it, an offer. The government's talk of freedom of choice gets with this only talk, because there is no option if the kindergarten is not there. The cut-off in the school leisure system is also dramatic, leading to a much more expensive system, which will go far beyond those most in need of the scheme. Both of these changes are also negative for the integration of children with a minority background. The promises of the elderly are also broken. They will not get their long-term sick home or nursing home as quickly as they should, because of the regime of the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party. With our scheme, we could build 2,100 more homes or sick homes for the elderly next year. The Workers' Party's proposal for an alternative state budget would, overall, provide the municipalities about DKK 1 billion more in the form of increased transfers and reduced costs than is in the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Right and the Advance Party. The scheme of the working party also means that the free revenues would have increased by over DKK 1 billion more than those currently adopted. It's a shame for the municipalities, and it's a shame for the residents that the government chose partners to make a worse arrangement for the municipalities. But even though we disagree on the size of the transfers to the municipal sector, we agree to ask the Government to assess probationary arrangements with a free-dominant project where some municipalities get reduced bonds in relation to the specific legislation. The Committee considers that a proposal for such testing schemes should be submitted to the Stortinget in the Municipal Economic Proposition for 2000. We have received many signals from municipal politicians and others that the state is regulating the municipal sector too much. There are signals that we all take seriously, and that's why we are in favour of such a free-dom attempt in some selected municipalities. Within a strongly reduced framework of what was the Workers' Party's alternative in this area, we have, for our part, found room for more resources for labour market action and something more for operation in the establishment. In addition to the fact that the Bondevik Government has already proposed to halve the number of posts from 1998 to 1999, the cut in labour market measures of about 1 000 places, which resulted from the budgetary agreement. This means that only 7 000 sites will be provided for next year. The cut that is now being adopted will make the situation worse for the unemployed. It will affect young people, unskilled women and foreign languages in particular. It is a very poor distribution policy, and it is a very risky one that the government is now spending. Most of the signals now indicate that unemployment will increase next year. It's almost just Regeringa, with Gudmund Restad at the head, who doesn't believe what most of the trade unions say about this question. The Labour Party considers that the cuts in labour market measures are irresponsible given that there are still many unemployed and that unemployment is most likely to increase further next year. As I said, although the framework is heavily reduced, we have found room to suggest increasing the allocations, so that we can get about 1,600 more action places than the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party add. I notice that the government in this area does as they did when we among other things. warn against the risk of interest rate increase. It closes its eyes and hopes for the best. Interest rates have risen sharply, and there is a significant risk that the same will happen in relation to unemployment. There are too serious signals that the government should take the chance that things will go well. The Labour Party believes that the most important thing now is that we manage to secure the jobs and get interest down. It's a shame the government doesn't contribute enough to that happen. Many groups are affected by the cutting policy that is now being pursued against ordinary people. I will draw attention to the changes that have been made in support schemes for lone dependants following the treatment of the welfare notification, and the follow-up responsibilities of the labour market seat have been as a result. A consequence of the cut-off in the labour market measures now adopted is that training provision and measures aimed at single dependants will disappear or be greatly reduced. These women have done what we in Stortinget have asked of them. They've been sitting on the school bench, taking education, then getting to work and becoming self-sustaining. Now, as a result of the policy adopted, many of these women have to bring their schoolbooks and sit at home. In view of this, the Workers' Party and the SV have made a proposal in the resolution that the Government within the undertaking authorisation granted should maintain ongoing offers and ensure the provision of services to lone dependants in need of training and action, as foreseen by the welfare notification. We are also asking the Government to make proposals in the context of the revised national budget for the allocation and the necessary guidelines or legislation to ensure such offers. We need as many people as possible to work, and people have to participate on their own assumptions and abilities. We don't want a working life just for those who are healthy and work their whole lives. There is a unanimous committee calling on the Government to open up more flexible procedures between participation in different labour market measures for people with disabilities. A few more money will also be allocated to this. It is also important to provide room for more groups, for example: people with mental disorders. For districts, jobs are also essential for people to live there, along with welfare services, such as: kindergartens. ‘Haugtussa Kindergarten in Torsken can be the first victim of the government’s heart attack – the cash support’ we could read in Nordlys on December 2. Is this what the Government's contribution to a district policy offensive is going to be? ‘We are a part that has taken the step and moved to Torsken. If you put the kindergarten in Torsken in 1999, that's proof that we picked the wrong one. A place where Torsken has few prospects without kindergarten," said the women from Torsken in the same newspaper. Is there really anyone who believes that young people with education and children, and in particular women, will move to small districts when kindergartens and work facilities are no longer there? I think that is very naive, and I think it is a misguided policy. For the Workers' Party, it is important that the ‘large’ district policy operates. In this we add secure jobs, an active industrial policy and a well-developed public service provision. In general, it is more important for districts than various small district policy instruments. The districts need above all a well-functioning labour market, a good infrastructure and an orderly economy. That's why we proposed to improve the municipal economy by around NOK 1 billion. That is why we proposed raising labour market measures by 400 million. kr in our alternative budget. That's why we proposed to build over 2,000 more nursing homes and nursing homes next year than what is now being adopted, and that's among other things. That is why we want to build more kindergartens, which is also important in a district policy context. If we mean anything that it's going to live in people throughout the country, we also have to make arrangements for it. This means that the ‘large’ rural policy is more important than various new measures, one of which has no idea of the consequences. Ensuring jobs should be point number. 1st@item: inlistbox It's also the most important tool, as we see it, in a distribution policy context.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e156	Sylvia Brustad has taken up the suggestion she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e161	The representative, Sylvia Brustad, paid great attention to labour market policy in his speech. It was about increasing unemployment, it's going to be worse for the unemployed, and we need the most people in work again -- we need secure jobs. I have a question in this regard. For the Workers' Party, it has actually been a symbolic matter for a long time to tax the rich. For example, the party has very much wanted to remove the reimbursement scheme for Norwegian seafarers just to get the shipowners, the rich. And in their eagerness to do so, they forget that 17,000 Norwegian seafarers are at risk of landing. With all the young people who have so optimistically invested in maritime education, I would like to ask the Labour Party what kind of labour market policy it is to want to remove this scheme, when in the long term it will mean 17 000 more unemployed Nordics. They are put on land, and a number of jobs in countries associated with maritime activities will be lost. Can the representatives of the Workers' Party in the Municipal Committee defend such labour market policy? It will deliberately help to remove thousands of jobs in this country. After what the representative Sylvia Brustad said in her post, where she is staying devoted to maintaining Norwegian jobs, I think it is a paradox that the Workers' Party is at the same time on such a line in relation to important jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e170	I understand that in many contexts there may be a need to resort to: attack is the best defense. If one goes in and looks at the approach the Progress Party puts forward in relation to the municipal sector as a whole and what it would have done if they had received through their primary proposal – probably several redundancies – and if one had obtained a majority for the primary proposal in relation to labour market measures, etc. where we know where the Progress Party stands, and in the 'big' policy, I think the situation might have been even worse than what is actually happening now. I believe that there is no contradiction in having a good distribution policy where one ensures that those who have the most to contribute actually contribute the most to the community, and that those who are the worst, also get the most out of what we have. This also applies in relation to labour market policy. And when the Bank of Norway, the Central Statistical Office and the Directorate of Labour say that the risk of unemployment increasing is very high, I think everyone should take it seriously. And I am disappointed that the government parties along with the Right and the Advance Party do not, in our opinion, do so when a cutter is so strongly involved in labour market measures. We believe that there is a close link between having jobs for those who need it, and a good distribution policy, by those who have the most, contribute the most, so that those who need the most, get a better offer. In this way, we believe that labour market measures are an extremely important contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e179	President, is hypocrisy a parliamentary expression?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e184	It depends on how it is used, but in order to be sure, the representative Solberg should not use it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e187	I think that this is a good expression of part of the Workers' Party's argument in relation to the local economy. In reality, the Workers' Party has between 330 and 370 million. kr more in unlabelled grants to the primary municipalities in their budget line. Because that's what they've been able to afford for the last 14 days. They have been able to afford to spend money on a level that only SV matches, and SV has, after all, so much responsibility that they say they have NOK 4 billion more for the municipalities to give them that opportunity. Based on the 330-370 million. kr in more free income, municipalities shall be able to afford the excess in respect of the care of the elderly, which virtually all the municipalities we have met have told us are becoming more expensive than they receive in State aid. They shall be able to afford the prosthesis in the case of major nursery facilities, where the municipalities also have to cover the entire state grant, in particular for small children's places. And not least they're going to have enough money, so Grete Knudsen no longer needs to appeal to the Government against all the school closures. The arguments put forward by the Workers' Party in relation to their actual budgetary arrangements are simply not consistent. The truth about the Labour Party budget is that it is tight. It's probably as tight, and it's not like the government's approach to the primary municipalities, especially. At the same time, they push through reforms with high levels of self-interest in a shorter time than the majority have been willing to, because the municipalities have wished for a greater pace and have shown themselves to be self-employed. To be honest, I think the Workers' Party should show a little more audacity, instead of this jubilant joy over finally being in opposition and using the exact same tactics and criticism – but with much less money – that today's government parties have used against the Workers' Party in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e198	I understand that those who have now made a settlement also in relation to the local economy need to explain that it is better than what it actually is, as we in the Labour Party see it, and so do a large number of rapporteurs and local politicians from the Right, the Advance Party and the Government Parties. I don't think there can be any doubt that the situation for many of the country's municipalities for next year will be very difficult. So one can choose what one will do with that, but it's wrong when Erna Solberg says that our alternative budget would have resulted in about 300 million. kr more in free income. That would have resulted in over $1 billion more in free income. So let's at least agree on how reality is. We proposed another $1 billion. We also proposed NOK 1 billion that could be redistributed, from the most prosperous municipalities to those who had something smaller, to ensure the most equivalent service offered in the municipalities. We think it's sad that there hasn't been a majority for that. I think a lot of people are going to experience that the service offer will be cut next year, for example. That care for the elderly is cut, cut in the kindergarten sector and cut in the school leisure system. We don't think that's a good way to go. We think it would have been important to spend money on maintaining what we have told us to do, not least the older reform, where a unanimous growth has decided that we should expand so and so many nursing homes and nursing homes in four years. But then, in order to accommodate some other heart issues that have suddenly become much more important in a year or two, they are forgotten the promises, and one prioritizes something else. We do not think that is a dangerous way to go. If we, for example, believes something that older people and health comes first, if we mean something that we want to make sure that everyone who wants it, babysitting by the year 2000, we have to do it, but then we have to say no to other things. But with the support of the bourgeois in this room, the government is doing the opposite. They say yes to something other than what they said yes to earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e207	President! A manifest misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e215	The President shall not be able to clarify any manifest misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e218	This debate should be constructive because we had a discussion on the Community economic proposition in June, when the Labour Party and the Government Party presented a package, followed by the Government in the proposal that is currently under way, which is largely adopted today. At the same time, one has got a deal with the other two parties, the Right and the Advance Party, to secure the implementation. There have been reactions from municipalities that say they are happy that the government has now for the first time in many years followed up its promises in the municipal economic proposition. Then there are some statements in this first post, that kindergartens have problems, that they break the promise of the elderly, and that they have problems in the labour market. Then I feel that this tastes more rhetoric than of reality, because it is not such that action in the labour market sector will be stopped, as it is claimed here. Such statements are only able to spread fear and insecurity among groups that have enough to strangle with in their everyday lives. It is also not true that the elderly are met with broken promises as the elderly reform is postponed. The government has said, as the majority of the parties here in Stortinget today will do, that the older reforms will be carried out. Where municipalities need a little more time than these four years, we will accept that something can go beyond the four years. Kindergartens are built as needed. Then it is a pleasure to note that cash support has become such a success even in labor-party-driven municipalities that the need is not so great as to get full coverage when it comes to kindergartens. The situation is tight, but it is well-viable in the municipalities of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e227	As far as the local economy is concerned, it is right that the proposal that we agreed on in ours is being followed up by the government. But first of all, there's a lot that's happened in the real world since then, and second, it looks a little different in the budget that's now adopted, than what was the original proposal of the Government. With regard to the three things that the representative Gedrem brought up, where he claims that the Workers' Party is involved in rhetoric, I have to say that what we are saying there is the fact. Let me take the kindergartens first: in 1997 it was created approx. 16 000 new kindergartens, this year it is expected to be 3 500 kindergartens, and next year the budgetary agreement with citizens will mean that there will be less than 2 500 kindergartens. No one should come and tell me that this is rhetoric! These are the facts, and this is contrary to the objectives which at least several parties in this Chamber have had to give to everyone who wants to receive a nursery offer by the year 2000. These include: a consequence of the cash shock, but believing that the need for kindergartens is as small as that, is not correct! In the case of the elderly reform, the representative Gedrem claims that no promises have been broken. But then I just have to say that we have been on that a unanimous increase has been for, namely that it would be implemented within four years. Now it's cut on it in relation to the deal that's been made for next year. So there's no more money in the next year. Then you can have a political guarantee that everyone who has plans etc. will do so, but it will not help if the money is not there! And it says black on white in the setting that is being treated here today, and that the majority recommends. We had proposed a little more money for this, which would have led to more hospitals and more nursing homes. It's not rhetoric, it's the facts. The same is true in relation to the labour market. We have received reports from the Labour Market Assembly that, among other things, some single carers now have to leave school as a result of cuts in labour market measures. It's not rhetoric either, it's the facts.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e238	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e241	: The municipalities' financial freedom of action had been significantly strengthened through the Progress Party's financial arrangements. Although reductions in business transfers have been made via local and regional industrial funds, the Progress Party would have contributed its overall economic policy to increasing employment and value creation, due to the large tax and tax reductions in the Progress Party’s alternative. It is also clear that the taxation of enterprises according to the Progress Party’s model, including the sharing model and free access to fund allocation, would lead to increased value creation in the municipalities and would therefore not be necessary with local and regional industrial funds. That said, it has to be said that the local government sector has a high savings potential through competitive incentives for the production of services. By using competition as an instrument, operating costs could be reduced, while at the same time as the quality of services becomes the same. Experience from Sweden and Denmark shows a savings potential of 5-20 pst. the regular use of supply in municipal service production, and the services improve, shows surveys. Municipalities should also organise the part of service production that is still carried out on their own to allow freed-up municipal units to compete with each other or with private individuals before a service area. Such competition, combined with unit price financing and user choice, will stimulate institutional units to provide the best for users. It is positive that in Sweden for example. schemes where people who require a service offer accept coupons from their local government for a specific service, e.g. before care for the elderly or during schooling. The citizens can obtain the services they want by using the value coupons provided by the institution or device they want. Local authorities shall continue to be responsible for the existence of the necessary service provision within the municipality, as well as for monitoring the quality of the services, while the State shall have financial responsibility through the provision of a single price finance. The production of the majority of services in the municipal sector should be self-sustained. It would also be desirable for municipalities in Norway to launch a pilot project where parts of service production are on offer, so that Norwegian competition-stimulating experience could be gained. So a few words about the Working Party. It becomes easily comical about it when the Labour Party in its dismay over the failed government hunt, where they are outside budgetary cooperation, has to resort to lucid arguments. The Labour Party deliberately creates insecurity between people and municipalities in order to achieve a political gain. The Labour Party, in its opinion, has a good share of the responsibility for the rise in interest rates and for uncertainties created by the Norwegian economy both domestically and abroad. Thus they have created more times for the most people as well as for the municipalities. I note that the Labour Party is not interested in a constructive debate and dialogue on how to meet the challenges we will face in the future. It's a shame that the country's largest party has gone on such a line in opposition. The labour force's hold could create insecurity and unrest. This, in turn, will lead to people getting worse in 1999, thanking the Labour Party for its little constructive way of acting. We in the Progress Party took responsibility and agreed to an agreement with the government party, although there is a lot in this proposal that is difficult to accept for us, too, but the option was bad at all. The party of progress was reconciled with the Government Party and the Right. It was a subsidiary solution for us, which gave the majority of its government party changed budget arrangements, and which has a different size of framework 6 than the Progress Party's primary draft budget. I would also like to point out in this context that, together with the Right Party and the Government Party of the Committee, we have made a proposal for the disposal of frames 6 and 7. You know, it's all as easy to be on, but we, together with the Right, took responsibility for putting in a budget, which is better than the alternative. The Progress Party will limit the number of distance cultural residents in Norway to 1000 people per year. years — including those suspended on a humanitarian basis, reuniting families and refugees. This is to get better integration, so that the unfortunate aspects you see today – which, in my opinion, are due to the fact that one overtakes too many in the year – can be stopped later. Norway should, in our view, pursue a restrictive policy when granting asylum and refugee status, and when granting the same rights and obligations to all persons in relation to the community in Norway, irrespective of their ethnic background. It's important to help refugees, but we in the Progress Party believe that a best way to help them in their own geographical and cultural neighbourhoods. There is reason to fear that immigration of asylum seekers, only to the extent that one has had in recent years, can lead to serious contradictions between ethnic groups and increase power and crime in Norway. – And we all have to go in. We believe that Norway is currently pursuing a wrong asylum, refugee and immigration policy, which is detrimental to the immigrants themselves, their families and the Norwegian community. By following the Progress Party's policy in this area, a more humane immigration and integration policy will be in the best interests of all. For us, it is also clear that refugees and asylum seekers who have been allowed to reside in Norway should travel to their respective countries when they so desire. It should also be made clear that asylum seekers who have received a final rejection of their asylum application must return to their homes as soon as possible. Voluntary organisations should, following the opinion of the Progress Party, be operated mainly without public support. Public support for organisations and associations with a ethnic background or common home country as a member criterion should, in our opinion, be lifted. When one knows, however, that many immigrant organisations with state support over time have systematically been operating directly and deliberately disinformation about the Progress Party both domestically and abroad, it should itself, in our opinion, disqualify them from transfers of taxpayers’ money. It's also strange, in our opinion, that the ministry doesn't look any better at what organizations you're looking at, all the time the criterion for getting a job isn't met by many of those who get a job. I'm quoting from St.prp. No 1 for 1998-99: ‘An aid may be granted to nationwide organisations whose activities fall within the scope of the scheme. National organisations refer to organisations whose activities are of a nationwide nature and which represent the interests of immigrants in Norway across nationalities/ethnicities. Organisations based on a national/ethnic group must be umbrella organisations, i.e. have common organisational links between cooperating organisations, as a general rule in at least five counties.» Many of today's organisations are not, in our opinion, nationwide, either in one or the other sense. We have had a correspondence with the department that supports this. Most organisations are small, self-owned foundations with very few members, yes, in some cases we have not been given how many members there are. They had to have a meeting to give the number of members – that meeting is not yet held, even if it is a good time since we asked. It seems to us that they only represent themselves, as well as their additions. I think it would be wise if someone now took a look at all the organizations that get their way, and later on only gave way to those who come under the definition of St.prp. No 1, from which I just quoted. The vote will take place at the next voting time. For me, it's a paradox that one of the organizations that has applied, the Rainbow Foundation, does not even get the credit for defining it as a nationwide and membership-based, without preventing anyone from becoming a member of – not an ethnic Nordic once, which most of the others are not. But they don't have the right points. So a few words about district policy. Prosperity is not necessarily a product of political decisions. Furthermore, wealth is not primarily based on the natural resources of a country, but is primarily a result of the individual’s daily efforts in productive activities. Work is an essential basis for general well-being. By implementing general and large tax and tax credits, one will improve the ability of individual and individual enterprises to act on their own initiative, without subsidies. The current system of high taxes and charges for all, while most receive public support in a number of areas, needs to be changed. By introducing more and more specific support measures, the state will govern individual people's choice of consumer goods and services as well as business activities. These developments need to be reversed, and so that individuals are given greater freedom of choice and businesses are inspired to adapt to their customers’ needs rather than to adapt to their country’s transfers. A market economy system is the best where individual traders can operate freely within the general framework of governance. This system has been shown to combine wealth with personal freedom. A series of bureaucratic laws and decisions preventing the free establishment and operation of business must be removed. The tax scheme must act as a catalyst for saving, which will further make everyone interested in the best possible use of resources. It is important to tax resource use and to have full access to the results of own efforts, so that one will meet these key requirements. If the enterprises retain the service of their activity without cutting, they will encourage investment. The ratio to the provision of funds is much more important than the large unnecessary transfers from the state. District policy must therefore not be selective in the sense that support is given to enterncies and special industries designated by politicians and bureaucrats. The future cannot be determined - it can only be created. Bus pay and accommodation allowances shall be a means of ensuring decent conditions for people who are in a permanent situation that makes them dependent on public support. Pensioners, whether old-age pensioners, disabled people or disabled people, usually have a transparent, permanent economic situation that makes it easy to determine the need for support. It is important to follow the requirement not to provide the temporary assistance of a bustoon and adjectives to the dwelling. The temporary need for public support for building costs and support for housing needs to find a solution within the social services law, Chapter 5. So a few words about nursing homes and hospitalizations. In the budgetary agreement between the Government Party, the Right and the Progress Party, it was agreed that the older reform should be carried out in four years, as originally intended, but with the option of the municipalities that will use the additional two years of implementation. The only thing missing is that the budget item was not made for an estimate permissions. Otherwise, this will function as the payments to babysitting, sick pay and day money, to name a few examples. Therefore, I found it particularly unnecessary for the Workers' Party to create insecurity both among the elderly and among the municipalities about something that is not certain – the pace of implementation of the older reforms. By means of the budget agreement, these parties guarantee clear municipalities that want and power to implement the plan in four years, they promise the financial coverage. In this context, I would like to refer to the Financial Committee's comment at the beginning of the budget. S. I. Appendix No 1 for 1998-99 where it says: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Workers’ Party and the Socialist Left, assumes that municipalities which do not benefit from investment aid for the older reform within the initial 4 years may receive investment aid for a further 2 years. Any change in the allocation needs shall be addressed in the revised national budget.’.» I note that the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party are not in the Financial Committee's comments and can be interpreted as seeing many municipalities in a situation where they do not receive investment if they do not have the power to carry out the reform in four years' time. It could be a good idea to get this cleared up. Is the Labour Party and SV willing to provide those municipalities that do not have their share in the course of four years, more than two years to carry out the reform? For our part, it is quite clear that this is not a violation of the agreement on the implementation of the older reform, it is just an extension of it. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal No. 3 and 4, by the Progress Party and the Right, and proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party, which is included in the option on page 65.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e323	Lodve Solholm has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e328	The Progress Party cuts as known the framework grant to the municipalities with nearly 8 billion kroner compared to the Workers' Party's proposal, if we read the financial position. I would call such a cut irresponsible. However, as the representative Lodve Solholm said, the Progress Party believes that there is a significant savings potential in the municipalities. The Labour Party will claim that a cut of almost 8 billion will primarily affect sick and elderly people out in the municipalities. As the Progress Party says that they are so concerned with the elderly and sick, this is not related. This picture is further reinforced by the fact that the Progress Party supports the proposal to cut the seniority bet to next year by 153 million. kr, corresponding to 2 100 fewer hospital and nursing homes. The government is also breaking a unanimous decision here in Stortinget. Now I've realized that the Progress Party doesn't like this cut, and that's it. But when no money was found missing, in the government's proposal, it is clear that there has been a higher priority, for example tax relief, which is also the flagship of the Progress Party. When the number of residential units in the care of the elderly is reduced from 5,800 to 3,700 in 1999 and the allocation is reduced accordingly, how can the representative claim that this does not affect the elderly and the sick who are waiting in the hospital or the elderly living in the municipalities? After hearing the representative's comments on immigration, it is simply a joke when we hear that the Progress Party will also vote to give even more money to immigrants and refugees than the Workers' Party is doing today. There is reason to ask the representative: What are the heart issues for the Progress Party in the Conciliation Committee between the Right and the Centre Parties?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e341	I want to say as the saying that if one repeats a lie often enough, it eventually becomes a truth. It might be desirable that the representative Signe Eye read the financial situation a little better than she does. It does not say that the Advance Party will reduce the budget for the municipalities by $8 billion. In our setup, we've turned many of these 8 billion into ear-marked additions because we wanted a different system, that's part-price financing when it comes to older people, health and education, and that's that we're re-prioritizing. We have a cut, yes, on approx. $2 billion net. That's what we mean to be able to cover up the restructuring that we're in favour of. The same is true of the older reforms. The representative has been assured many times both here and elsewhere that there is nothing cut in what we have agreed on when it comes to the older reforms. We've only expanded the reform for those municipalities that don't have the power to set up with their property. And then let me say that the Progress Party initially did not want an element of that reform. That's what our model was, but it wouldn't be on it. It could have been in the Workers' Party if they wanted to, because the Advance Party and the Workers' Party have quite a number of teams. And I said in my post that one time or another must vote for something you're not interested in. In order to take responsibility for a settlement, one must sometimes vote for some proposals for which one may not initially be particularly interested. That's why I think it's time for the Workers' Party at least to try to treat the truth a little more seriously than what has been the case so far.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e350	The representative, Lodve Solholm, stressed that the Progress Party had been involved in taking responsibility, and I am pleased about that. At the same time, he stressed that the Progress Party was fundamentally in disagreement with regard to asylum, refugee and immigration policy, and was committed to limiting the number, sending back and thereby preventing increasing conflicts. When the representative Lodve Solholm discusses asylum, refugee and immigration policies, it happens in words and forms that should not necessarily provoke many. On the other hand, the others, with their statements, are involved in creating both xenophobia and racial hatred. We're told that everyone has to be treated the same way. In relation to the human vision the Progress Party and Lodve Solholm tend to say that the Progress Party stands for, do I wonder if it is entirely appropriate that everyone should be treated equally? Isn't that gonna be an A4 policy? Not the experiences Lodve Solholm, among others. have done from previous jobs to disabled people, that we have to make a difference in order for us to be able to treat people equally? Is the asylum, refugee and immigration policy of the Progress Party in line with the words of Christian humanity and Scripture that we should accept the foreigners?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e357	We in the Progress Party are no larger than that we accept praise and thank you for that. We'll be happy for that. The fact that some in my party, when it comes to immigration policy, in the view of the representative Ivar Østberg, would express attitudes that create fear of the future and hatred of the race, I would strongly distance myself from it. All human beings are equivalent. All human beings should be treated according to the situation in which they themselves are. And I would say that the Progress Party's immigration policy is precisely based on the basis that Ivar Østberg said, simply the Christian basis. The reason why we want to take in fewer than the population wants is that by taking in as many people as we do now, the Norwegian community does not have the power to accept them properly. It should show last day's events, not at least in the last year. All the results that I mentioned in my post, which are particularly unfortunate, and which the Progress Party and I want to stop, are not something of the Progress Party's policy, for it has not been implemented, it! The reason for the unfortunate situations we have today is precisely the policy that has been pursued in this area and for which the Progress Party cannot take responsibility, because we have voted against it. We want to accept those who come to the country, in a proper and dignified way, but then a small community like Norway cannot accept so many that it becomes impossible. That's why we want a policy that's a little bit different, in the hope that we'll behave like a good Norwegian people with the tradition we have in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e366	First of all, the debate on the care of the elderly and the reform of the elderly. I would like to encourage the Progress Party to read the financial position better, perhaps also to follow when voting in the Stortinget takes place, and the representative Solholm had come to realize that SV has actually voted on the proposal from the Government, and that we have never made such signals as the Progress Party now claims. When we have had to write something about this in the vote of the Municipal Committee, it is because the Progress Party takes out a few lines of the financial position and manufactures it as a whole. It's not a perfectly fair way to run politics. So to immigration and refugee policy, because I think it might be the most serious thing in the Progress Party now flagging up. There is no doubt that fear of alienation is being created in Norway today. And there is also no doubt that living in a society with many different cultures that is breaking apart is more difficult, and there is no secret either that when you are in a situation where you have been a refugee, where you have experienced many difficult traumas, you need a completely different assistance and help than those of us who have been lucky and born after the war and grew up in peaceful and secure conditions. Then the question is, do we treat those who come, in such a way that we can believe that this succeeds? And the most important signal we can give to those who come is: you're welcome here, you're welcome here as the one you are, and basically I don't think I'm anything better than you. Then we can make clear demands, only then can we make clear demands on how to behave in this society and also make it happen. But if we give signals that everything that is different from us is dangerous, this is not going well. In addition, it is not possible to do what the Progress Party does when they say that they want to limit crime in Norway, to cut off from all the good help the police have in terms of child protection, in terms of youth clubs and all other measures for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e374	I am pleased that SV is now clarifying their relationship with the elderly reform, and that, as I interpret it, they understand that the proposal contained in the agreement is an extension of the reform to the best of the municipalities and to the best of the elderly. If the reform had been cut after four years, as the government so far agreed – we should be aware that it is the Right and the Advance Party that in many ways made the requirement that one here came up in the agreement – many older people would have gotten worse, and many municipalities would have gotten worse. But we've got a deal where we're actually expanding the reform to a little bit longer, so that we can secure the older-value nursing homes and nursing homes. So for immigration. I understand, of course, that SV is busy with immigration, because they still want more into the country, with the problems it creates. And it's quite obvious that if you're going to follow SV's policy, we're going to have a lot of trouble. Because it's quite correct, as Andersen's representative says, living in a multicultural society is difficult. We also realized that in the Progress Party. And when one sees that in a Norway that has been in itself for a long time, it goes towards a somewhat more multicultural society than it has been before, let's at least take it easy so that we can plan this in a way that is best for the immigrants, the refugees and the asylum seekers, and not create a situation that makes it worse. That's exactly what's our point. Instead, let's get together to do a real job, so that we accept those who are coming, in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e381	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e384	This year's budget is the result of the agreement between the Government Parties, the Advance Party and the Right. For the Christian People's Party, it was essential that the central profile of the government budget be clear, also as a result of the conciliation. That's something we've made clear. The government's regional policy commitment and protection of the local economy, the government's commitment to family, health, small and medium-sized enterprises have been preserved. All parties agreed that a tight budget had to be provided, and we have received a tight budget, with a tightening of approx. DKK 7.8 billion. For the Christian People's Party, it is gratifying that through the agreement we have still managed to protect the municipal sector. The municipal economy is based on the municipal economic proposition and the majority decision together with the Labour Party in June this year. The decision of the Grand Duchy on the local economy in June 1998 was followed by the Government and retained in the agreement between the Government Parties, the Advance Party and the Right. The Christian People's Party is aware that many municipalities are under pressure and that there are great differences between municipalities. With the major changes that have been made in recent years, it is important for me to stress that balances must be made over time. The decision to convert the corporation tax into a State tax, in order to redistribute it again to the satisfaction of the tax-deprived municipalities, is part of such a cohesion. The government raised the government budget to a special investment in the districts where the appropriations were increased by 620 million. kr in different areas. Through the agreement, we have managed to maintain the largest regional policy investment in the 1990s with an increase in the special district funds of DKK 1⁄2 billion. The Christian People's Party has noticed the clear message from municipalities and counties that the financial framework for 1999 is very tight. A cost-effective wage settlement, increased pension liabilities and increased interest rates are the main reasons for this. The main objective of the State budget is to reduce interest rates. Each percentage point at which interest rates are reduced implies savings in the municipal sector of 440 million. kr. The local government sector has increasingly stressed that when the Storting adopts major and new reforms, they need to be compensated for if the local government sector is to implement them. The Christian People's Party has also noticed the strong signals that have come from municipalities and county councils in terms of state detail management. Wide-ranging designation in the context of reforms makes it difficult to achieve a reasonable transition, a design of service provision adapted to local variations and different needs. I have noticed that on several occasions the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs has called for a development in which municipal autonomy is better conditioned with less detailed regulation. It is therefore welcome, and in line with the wishes of the Council of State and the Ministry, when the Committee now proposes a decision asking the Government to assess probationary arrangements with a free-dominant project in which some municipalities are reduced by special legislation, and wishes to have a scheme for such probationary schemes submitted to the Stortinget in the municipal economic proposition for 2000. As mentioned above, the municipal sector has been given many new and major tasks and some tasks have been significantly expanded. In order to achieve this, it is essential that the municipal sector shows its willingness and ability to change. However, the Christian People's Party would point out that the ministry also has doubts as to the extent to which the potential for conversion in the municipal sector is in the depressed economic situation. Repriorities and efficiencies are a prerequisite for municipalities to release the resources required for the allocation of earmarked funds. Through the media and through direct contacts to the Committee, possible school drop-outs and reductions in nursing homes and kindergartens have been identified. For me, it is important to stress that not only the external levels of the local government sector are being made subject to possible reorganisation and efficiency. Some of the reorganisation and closure proposals are otherwise more strongly justified by structural changes in municipalities than in the pressed economy. It is important when the municipal sector enters and analyses its own activities, that the central administrative apparatus is also under scrutiny. It is a fact that several municipalities for 1998 do not have income to cover increased wage and interest expenditure in 1998 and are therefore receiving a deficit. The situation in some municipalities may be such that more exceptional measures, which will require the involvement of the county council, will be relevant. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that, on the part of the Ministry, through a circular to the statesmen, it is open to the possibility of making advances in framework grants. The Christian People's Party is further pleased that in St.prp. Paragraph 1 states that according to the situation of each municipality, the State will be able to assess more closely the activity requirements required for the allocation of earmarked funds and that this has been followed up by circulars to the counties. The municipal scheme for 1999 includes a cut in the amount of grants to kindergartens of 125 million. kr, while increasing the discretionary funds by 50 million. kr. The net effect is 199 million. kr in total cut to the municipalities. Changes in costs of reducing costs for the municipal sector due to a non-increase in the electricity and fuel oil levy amount to an estimated 120 million. kr. The savings in relation to the Government's original proposal and the Workers' Party's proposal for an extension of the employer's period within the sick pay scheme are estimated to be 190 million. kr. With the closure of the cash support scheme, there appears to be a lot of evidence that the local government sector will actually save significant amounts on the operation of relatively expensive small children's seats and come out with a total plus due to the reform. In addition, the government will make proposals in the Kindergarten Communication, presented in spring 1999, to ensure a greater degree of financial equality between municipal and private kindergartens that are part of the municipality's overall offer and where tasks and obligations are the same. The goal of full kindergarten development is at hand. So in the municipality of Torsken, which was mentioned, there are six families who have asked for cash support. I find it hard to understand that in the municipality of Torsken, where they have long had full kindergarten development and overcapacity, the cash support is to blame for necessary structural changes. I know Torsken municipality in Senja quite well from my home country. For the Sameting, it is positive that we have managed to increase the allocation, and that the Sameting is more free to prioritize actions within its area. I will mention in particular the increase for Sami purposes aimed at women’s and family-oriented measures in the reindeer industry in 1999 and precisely in order to increase women’s participation in and recruitment of young people to the industry. We have a historically low unemployment rate in the country and a labour demand that is partly difficult to meet. Labour shortages do not apply only to special professions. It will therefore continue to be important for the labour market set to give priority to dissemination work. Forecasts may suggest that unemployment may increase slightly. The Director of Labour joined today 20 000 at the end of 1999. The Government will follow the situation closely and, through the mandate of the undertaking, as proposed by the Committee in line with the Government's arrangements, has the necessary tools to ensure an adequate level of action in 1999 and early 2000. The biggest challenge is to give those who need sheltered measures an offer. The government has proposed to increase the number of ASVO jobs to provide services to people with mental illness. The Committee reinforces this entry by a further 10 million. kr, both in order to increase rates and to further increase the number of ASVO jobs. The plaques shall not be earmarked for a group, but shall be used in relation to all disabled persons who need such a job. There is still an unmet need for places for people with mental retardation. It is with great pleasure that I recommend the Committee's proposal for such an increase in rates and the number of ASVO workplaces.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e430	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e433	There was a lot that could have been said, but I'm going to try to focus on two things. The Bondevik government proposes that old and sick people pay for the distribution of cash to healthy people. And: The government lacks control of economic policy. In the spring of 1997, opposition parties, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, promised to expand the care of the elderly, if they were given government power. Now, the parts of the value have been given government power, and now they run from their promises to the older ones. The Bondevik government’s proposal to postpone the elderly care reform by two years will mean that 2,100 older people have to wait for a decent place to care for. The proposal to postpone the reform of the elderly is despite the fact that the government parties in the Declaration of Adults wrote in plain text that the central government will follow up the conciliation of the elderly in the Stortinget in the spring of 1997, which was supported by a broad political majority. Is this a good start to the broad value-based and societal mobilization of the Bondevik government announced in the Waksenås statement to the elderly? I have noticed that the Government does not meet its own objectives of not reporting measures for refugees in Norway as development aid. On the contrary, the proposal for transfers from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs increases by 133 million. kr. Can we expect the Christian People's Party in the future to use u-aids in this way to achieve a budgetary settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e442	Prior to the spring of 1997, there were many and heated debates in which one party proposed one solution and the other proposed a different solution. It was a pleasure that the political parties in Norway could gather not to turn the elderly into election fighting, but managed to create a settlement in the spring of 1997 — a collective settlement. And then the representative asked Lund if there is now a breach of promises in this area from the government parties, from the valuables. No, there's no breach of promise. But as the Labour Party representative Sylvia Brustad pointed out, something has happened since the spring of 1997. Something has happened to the Norwegian economy, something has happened to the need for tightening up, something has happened to the economy in the world. Similarly, the conciliation now means that we can carry out the reform of the elderly at the rate of the promise and the conciliation made in spring 1997. But we need to take seriously the signals the committee has received, among other things. on their visits around the country, that some municipalities will need more time to implement the reform. There were questions about the Christian People's Party wanting to continue the practice of using u-aids, which are part of the conciliation. It's not the way the Christian People's Party prefers to see that unaided resources are being used, and I hope that we can phase out such a use of unaided resources, but I remind you that the objective of the share of gross domestic product is maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e449	It was a balanced and good post the representative Ivar Østberg had to come with, and I quite agreed with much of what he pointed to. He came up with a very central question regarding the position in Norwegian municipalities. Words such as reorganisation, efficiencies, structural changes and analyses of the municipality's own activities were the things he mentioned in his speech. But as far as I could see, he did not come up with or use the word "exploitation" – or for the sake of privatisation. What could be a little important to clarify is how far the Christian People's Party might consider using competitive deferral as part of the efficiency process in Norwegian municipalities. And further, is it that the Christian People's Party is able to consider more closely the use of competitive deferral in the specific field of care for the elderly, as a more efficient measure both to save taxpayers for money and, of course, to increase the quality of the offer to them?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e456	I would like to thank you for your words. It's my goal to try to contribute to solutions and not to provocations – I don't think it's the strategy to find good solutions for people in this country. That's how I look at the Christian People's Party and my task here in this room. I get questions about the Christian People's Party could imagine putting out competition and not least putting out care for the elderly. I have been on a competitive footing in both municipal and county politics. But what I think must be absolutely crucial is that we get a competitive outing where we really get to measure the possibilities based on equal premises. Unfortunately, it turns out that there is a part of the private market which in no way takes account of the provisions of the Labour Environment Act, which in no way gives the conditions of employment such as: the public sector, which abides by the law, must give. I have little faith that it is the private sector that will be responsible for the care of the elderly in Norway. It is and must be a public offer in general, although there are a number of non-governmental organisations doing excellent work. I want to make the former Prime Minister and County Councilor Nordlis my statement: I do not want to be on a tender.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e465	The Christian People's Party would like to be a family-friendly and family-political good party. I will then address a problem that this budget has contributed to creating, such as, among other things. is about the welfare notification and the treatment of the Stortingen a few years ago. The Christian People's Party, SV and the Center Party then agreed, and actually went against the changes that were proposed to shorten the transitional benefit for lonely dependants, because we thought this would be a worse arrangement. Now the curtailment was adopted, and an extended responsibility was transferred to the labour market seat to provide the sole caregiver with an offer of training or activity when the transitional benefit period was over. We are now informed by several municipalities and state that some of these measures are being taken in order for the labour market parliament to be able to discharge this responsibility for lone dependants – who are, therefore, family dependants alone – now disappear. If you see it in the context of what the government has now done for lonely dependants, namely to remove the transitional benefit if you get a partner, this is a very strong attack on those who are now responsible for children alone. Then I have to ask: why does the Christian People's Party not support the proposal to assure the lone carers what they are entitled to offer, and as the Stortinget has promised them, from the labour market parliament? Why will they not be in favour of an extension until the revised national budget and possibly come back to ensure that the offer remains?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e472	The Christian People's Party does not want the measures in place to be cut off, as the debate has claimed. We have checked this, and we have been informed that such measures should not be cut out. We then find it unnecessary to ask the Government to maintain something that will continue. That is why we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e477	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e481	In some areas, budgetary conciliation, which has now been discussed for several days and evenings in a row in this Chamber, has been an breakthrough for good right-wing policy. In the context of the position of the Municipal Committee, and not least in the context of the municipal economic budget, I also think that there has been a good impact on good right rhetoric in many areas relating to the municipalities – not only in the four other parties with which we have cooperated, but also far into the Workers' Party. Never before have I seen so many figures over how much costs should be reduced and stated on how important it is to have a controlled price and salary increase in order to get money out to the local government sector, as I have done in both the financial position and this setting we are dealing with today – an argument that is identical to the Right has carried out every single year when we have promoted our arrangements as an argument that the effect of the local government could actually be better for several years than the labor party governments stated, because we were more aware of slowing down the cost increases in the local economy. I'm glad that it's a breakthrough to think this way, and because it's so permeated, so to speak, all parties' budgeting, with the exception of SV. It has been mentioned earlier in this debate that there are five parties behind the budgetary agreement and that the same parties have also participated in this vote on a budget allocation arrangement in Framework Box 6 and Framework Box 7. This should not be unexpected because very many of the budget lines within the framework area 6 are affected by the main agreement in the context of the budget. The framework level in this area is higher than the one proposed by the Right in its alternative budget, not least because we would have wanted a different priority when it comes to district policy. We also wanted to give priority to a tighter framework on the budget without increasing taxes and taxes. Our priority expenditure increases have been in Chapter areas other than those currently being dealt with. We have prioritised well-known themes, such as maintaining a good – and developing a better – police force, maintaining defence capabilities, and not least to bet districts most of all on better infrastructure, roads and communications. It is the whole of the budgets and economic policies that are conducted, which are essential for both municipalities, for the business sector in the districts, in terms of the need for specific labour market measures and the declarations under Framework Box 7 – the People's Security Chapter. In all the areas for which the Municipal Committee has primary responsibility, perhaps with the exception of refugee issues and integration in that context, it is the whole and the general economic policy that is most important for what we get out of the resources we actually have. As regards, for example, the need for extra efforts in housing issues, it has been evident that during the autumn the importance of the general framework conditions is evident when interest rate increases result in many more problems of establishment. So it's not necessarily 50 million here or there that's the most important thing, or the government's symbol money in district policy, but that's the effect of the whole thing. What the right has said for many years is that it is more important for municipalities how much they get out of the money they get or get in direct tax revenue than what they actually get transferred. It is more important for viable districts that the framework conditions for the already existing farms do not deteriorate, rather than increase the measures and provide artificial breathing. It is therefore not uninteresting how public expenditure is financed in areas within the public budgets that you want to prioritise, if you are involved in impact and not just in symbols. In the local government sector, it should be clear after a pay settlement with which all municipalities now disagree. What salary settlement would be made for spring if we did not get interest rates down, if the Government's tax increases with subsequent price increases were to be continued in this budget? What kind of basis would it be for the negotiations in the local government sector if you have really felt that the good pay from in ours is eaten up and you still want to get better pay? What weaknesses would this not cause when increased public expenditure is financed by shifting increased costs into a tight labour market — and we still have a tight labour market, and the outlook next year is the same — and expected costs are to be taken back through increased wage demands? It is clear that all such conditions directly affect wage negotiations, including the direct costs of the individual enterprise. An example of this is district policy. It is a priority to have enterprises in the districts that can live on their own income. In mid-November, the country's largest accounting agency chain, Economic Partners, reported that their surveys of small and medium-sized enterprises show that the level of interest rates in the autumn has increased the number of enterprises that would suffer a deficit by 19 p.m. and that in North Norway, every third enterprise in this category would be able to decrease. This is therefore the situation for district farms in 1998, which is a top year for the economy. For example, the general framework conditions are more important than all kinds of social welfare schemes. A low level of taxation that allows businesses to build up equity, the ability to reinvest their own resources and to strengthen their own situation, as well as macroeconomic policies that ensure stable framework conditions in other areas, are, in fact, the most important policies for maintaining profitable jobs in rural areas. For this reason, the Right has been in total disagreement with the device of the district profile in the budget. Increased costs for established jobs in districts shall contribute to financing experiments with new measures and others that have not previously been shown to have such a significant impact. At the same time, all the promises that have been made in areas that have been no. 1 of the priority areas of rural business, namely better road solutions to reduce transport costs. In another area, the Right has been concerned about getting a clear priority, even if this means little financially. In a tight labour market, it has been important for Norwegian companies to obtain professionals outside Norway’s borders. There are not enough available skills or they are not mobile enough. That is why we have given priority to reducing the length of the procedure for applications for work permits, and we have had an impact of 3 million. kr in the ear-marked strengthening of the UDI in that area. This has been important from the letter base we have been given on how long the procedure has actually been, and in some cases it has been discovered that the decision has not been made until after the job has been completed. This is about the labour force of the fishing industry in Northern Norway, it is about welders in Rogaland, and it is about a number of other district farms in need of labour which are not able to cover it in today’s labour market in Norway. Let me say that I am pleased that the Committee has unanimously joined a proposal from the Right to set up a pilot scheme with free-dominant communities with the release of parts of the special legislation, and where we ask the Ministry to come back with a proposal for this in connection with the municipal economic proposition for 2000. Clearly, today the municipalities want greater freedom, greater autonomy, and have been limited for several years. It has been the subject of many debates in Stortinget. For the Right, it has been important to find the simple steps that can allow us to move on in the discussion of how to get greater municipal autonomy and greater ability to give priority, through, among other things. this attempt to which we have now received agreement, and the Document No. The 8th proposal, which has been promoted in the autumn and which will be discussed in the spring, to set up a sample to go through the whole of the specific legislation independently, and to contribute to a debate on the rules to be followed. In many sectors, local politicians experience being over-managed by the state. First, they check through earmarked grants. At the same time, laws and regulations and regulations are being monitored, which reduces freedom of action. And in the right, we take the municipalities seriously when they say to us that they find it difficult to figure out the great potential that actually exists for efficiency and re-priorities, when government and corruption bind up so much of the funds through regulations that you don't think hit at the local level. The right municipal code would be tighter, but we have recorded that our contribution to making a settlement has resulted in Johan J. Jakobsen stating that he thinks the budget agreement is good for the municipalities. That's why it's a little strange, I think, to listen – and I've mentioned it before in this debate – the violent rhetoric of the Workers' Party linked to the municipalities. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to mention my attempt to clarify a manifest misunderstanding. What I said in my post was that in the case of the primary municipalities – and I stress the primary municipalities – there is talk of free income increasing somewhere between 330 and 370 million. kr. And it is the primary municipalities that are responsible for school, kindergarten and school leisure and all the other Workers' Party that are now criticising. When the Workers' Party then uses numerical magic – which is easy to do in the local economy, because there are large and difficult numbers – and says that they increase by over DKK 1 billion, the one billion they have there is a result of a health re-prioritisation in the county municipalities, from 45 p.m. to 50 pst. input finance in the health sector, which means that one billion DKK is available. Either it's an obvious misunderstanding to use these figures against each other, because the county councils don't deal with kindergartens and primary schools, or, alternatively, it's a little worse – if you haven't misunderstood it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e507	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e510	Despite the fact that Solberg's representative says that a few million people here and there don't matter, but that it's the whole thing that's important, I'm going to start with the budget deal, which means a reduction on the cap. Item 581 75 Housing allowances for the establishment, repair and rental of 50 million dwellings. kr, i.e. down to 250 million. kr. The mandate has increased accordingly, and it is claimed that this will have no impact on the activity. It's relatively eye-catching that a 50-million-dollar budget cut. kr does not matter. If so, one could have suggested that the entire allocation be converted into a commitment authorisation. Now those who have been involved in the budgetary conciliation say that the majority sees ‘disreputable aspects of such budgetary practices’. In spite of this, they agree with the proposal, ‘but assume that future budgetary proposals clearly indicate the proportion of proposed appropriations to be used to cover previous commitments’. Does not the representative of Solberg agree that it is really pushing the problems ahead? So to the elderly and the representative of Solholm in terms of the extension of the planning period from four to six years. So he claimed that reducing the appropriations for the elderly reform by 153 million. kr does not matter. Is the Right prepared to spend the money in the revised budget if it turns out that municipalities will carry out the elderly effort in line with the plan — four years?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e526	Often it's okay to have memory from more than one fiscal year! Last year, a Joint Municipal Committee of the Government criticized the fact that there were several records where large sums were transferred from year to year. This meant that you couldn't spend the money one year, that they didn't make any payments during the year. Those who remember last year's debate will remember that suddenly there was DKK 1 billion for the labour market sector, funds that had been hidden over several years and that we had never been informed about. When the Riksrevision has asked for a reversal of the budget line on some of these items, it is because it has wanted to have a more realistic budgeting of what is actually being paid out one year, against what will come to payment, even if the projects have been promised the year they are introduced. So essentially, we think it's good to have it like this. The comment that we are making is included because we believe that it is also important that we know next year what appropriations will give new activity, and what appropriations are paid for what can be called ‘old fun’ in these areas. Just in the transitional year, it means, of course, that it is convenient to make such changes because the allocation then goes down, and it looks more budget-oriented. When we cut 50 million. kr and increases the commitment appropriations, I agree that it is not our best way to balance budgets, but it is quite much better than part of what we have seen working party governments have been in during the years I put in the finance committee and then all funds in the transport sector are emptied. So I don't think the criticism is that big. I perceive that the activity in this area is going to be maintained at the level of what has been in the past. Regarding the issue of care for the elderly, yes, the right-hand side of the equation has said that if the municipalities are going to increase their activity, we are prepared to grant more to carry out the elderly reform. But we have listened and listened to all our municipal politicians, to many of the Workers' Party and to many of the other parties, who have told us that they are unable to cope with the pace, because they do not have money for the part. And they don't get that from the Workers' Party either.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e540	I noticed the representative Solberg's wording on ear-marked additions and the need to reduce them, and there I very much agree with her. In fact, I believe that one of the most important things for the development of municipalities is to release them. Today, they are surrounded by so large, extensive restrictions that they are free to participate in local democracy. I believe that this government, if it is supported in realising its visions, can just free the municipalities from many of the bonds that today put an unnecessary damper on their activity and the local use of resources and forces. Otherwise, I'd like to enter Erna Solberg's lack of faith in the symbol within the district bet. I actually think that symbol, or what I would call visions, is very important for local democracy. They are involved in motivating the individual to participate in local policy activities. I believe that the amount of money now spent on over half a billion dollars is very important and right to create motivation and a local awareness of the identity and value of the local place, in order to invest life and labour on it. It is very important not least when it comes to the proper use of technological developments and to the feeding of the various measures. I am also aware that the view of the viability of businesses has been adjusted and improved, so that the districts are more able to find a priority initiative in terms of private initiative. Therefore, my claim will be that the district effort that is now made after a generation of decay and decline in the districts is right to give the community in the district a spark and a life threat for further efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e549	I wish I could be just as optimistic about what you can do with today's government in terms of, for example. to increase municipal autonomy! We had a debate for the first time on 26 March last year on the question of living local democracy. There I think there was some positive input. The majority also adopted a number of leads in connection with that debate. Then the feedback on some of the proposals that, among other things, I have to say that I was a little more surprised by the lack of action, or the lack of operational – to use the new motto – ‘grip’ to do something, for example. with regard to specific legislation and sectoral review. I don't think it was impressive to get the answer back that twice in the 1990s there had been a review of sectoral legislation, so there was no need for a review, when it's obvious that the two reviews you had in the 1990s have not been enough, at least not for those who work in the municipality of Norway, when you get the pretty strong demands you've got to make changes and get reduced legislation. The Council of State also said that a new regulation had been put in place. And we're going to see the effect of if that means it's going to be smaller. We have thought that there is a need for more grips, and we are pleased that the Storting is going to join our arrangement today, for example. with a free-dominant scheme in this area. As far as district policy is concerned, there may be a difference between the right and the middle parties. There is more faith in the Christian People's Party and optimism about actions that don't necessarily have an effect, but are just about mobilizing their own activity. We believe that what is primarily wrong is the choice of important regional policy measures, such as: the commitment to the transport sector. And when, in addition, we finance increased regional policy efforts by increasing the burden on the district industry, then we're on the wrong track.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e560	There's a lot of right-wing policy in the deal," said Erna Solberg. And that's right -- that's too much. Now differences are increasing in Norway. One of the main objectives of this agreement was not to increase taxes and taxes, and if you look at those who have income and labour or capital, this is right. And most of all to the richest, seafaring. Everyone's got, but most of them have the most. On the other hand, if you have health problems or illnesses, the answer is no. There's been a 700-million increase in taxes and charges. kr in this budget. And then I have to ask the representative Solberg: is it the Norwegian economy that makes the sick pay more in taxes in Norway? Then I also have a question about how to use the big cyclical policy to achieve the desired result. Now both financial policy and monetary policy are strengthening the problems in the labour market, and I have a feeling that this does not have the right very much against it. They think it's okay if unemployment now increases a little, because they think it helps the economy to function better. Then I have another specific question for the Right: How much does the Right Unemployment mean to bring the interest rate down to a level that makes it possible for people in difficulty to obtain housing in the usual housing market? Or isn't it that if you run the policy that the Right stands for, you might eventually get a low interest rate, but a high unemployment rate, and we get a lot of people who have to apply to the Social Office and other relief measures to get through their everyday lives at all, so that what is now tightening up on one side, sticks out on budgets on the other side?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e569	One of the most interesting debates that never takes place in our society is the question of who are the rich? For it is a matter of the rich winning so much in the scheme that is now underpinned – from the government there was a tax boost for all who had income above NOK 270,000. For full-day workers in Norway, the average income now starts to reach NOK 250000. You have to hit, for example. ‘rich’ or others with income above SEK 270 000 with tax consolidation means, in practice, that those affected are, to a large extent, graduates with large student loans, in the middle of the start-up phase, who work in the public sector and who are, in fact, the ones who also have the biggest problems with interest rates. So it's related. Who is disadvantaged, you always have to define when you're asking how far the interest rate is going to go down. However, it is clear that in a situation where tax relief is provided, such as: enabling a two-academic family working in the public sector, to buy housing and manage without public help to do so, it is also important to keep taxes and taxes down and maintain a tight economic policy that helps not all groups that can manage to become social clients. We therefore believe that housing policy should support those who are actually disadvantaged, who are in a situation of life that will make them persistently unable to establish or build up equity, and that young people should be able to get a start-up loan at the top. When it comes to the question of the size of the vacancy, I actually want to say that I am not afraid that the vacancy will rise, if it does not result in an increase in long-term unemployment at the same time. The fact that people change jobs, I don't think I'm a problem in a dynamic society, because it takes three to four months when you go from one job to another. We must live in a society that is as changeable as ours. The important thing is to focus on the development of long-term unemployment, which we must ensure that we have the means to do so. But some increase in unemployment just means that you spend a little longer time on a job change. I don't think we should be terribly afraid of that, and not problematize too much.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e583	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e586	Statements that many municipalities and county councils will get worse next year, agree with my impression. There is no doubt that the local government sector has taken part in the cuts needed to reduce interest rates and in order to achieve wage developments in the coming years that do not create inflation and job losses. In particular, the municipal sector will have — and has had — benefits from moderate wage settlements. When we see that an increase in the sector's revenues of 11 billion kroner – from 190 billion to 201 billion kroner – in one year does not extend, all good forces must work to contribute to moderation and solidarity in the next year's wage settlement. Within the economic framework agreed by the Stortinget for the entire State budget, the municipal sector has become stronger in line with the Government’s proposals. An improvement of about 450 million. kr is what I have calculated. Then the effect of a lower price increase is calculated. I'm going to give the local authorities the right to say that the state detail management has almost only negative sides. Local migration opportunities are being reduced, money is not going far enough, plans and reports are being made for the sake of the system and not for the sake of the population, and local populace are losing power to statesmen and other small kings. The new municipal law would do something about this. The state was to determine what was to be done, while the local authority was to decide how. Development has gone in the wrong direction. The main point of light in recent times is the agreed pilot scheme, where 20 municipalities and two counties will receive more of their money as free resources. But I'm afraid it can go so that the cow dies while the grass grows. I am therefore willing to discuss the framework for a new major reform entitled ‘More freedom and responsibility for the municipalities’. The involvement of municipalities in the adoption of the economic framework and in the implementation of new reforms must be central. In my opinion, a right of reservation for municipalities against new reforms should be discussed. There is little sense — in fact, it is negative for citizens, the employees of municipalities, local populace and the Grand Council — with reforms that are not locally capable of follow-up or which require the closure of existing offers. I will not vote against even more trial projects, but I believe that in today's situation it is too puzzled. There is a cross-thinking in this debate that employee organisations and those representing different users so strongly want state over-management. There is therefore a need for better evidence of the disadvantages of today’s situation. In one area, municipalities have received the Stortinge decision on full freedom and responsibility. This applies to the question of bundling municipalities. That decision will long be based on the increasingly strong signals in the main hall of increased autonomy for municipalities. It is not possible to say that we will take the municipalities seriously, and then take this freedom from them. The centre party is concerned that all the earmarked money for the new health and care reforms will benefit the citizens, including those who live in municipalities or counties where you have too little money in the first year for the required excess. Based on the overall comments in the vote, I believe the department has a back cover for liberalising the rules in this direction. Otherwise, I am pleased that the Financial Committee has in its position opened up a transitional arrangement for the current balancing of income so that municipalities with abnormally low tax revenues in 1998 and 1999 can receive compensation. Low unemployment means a tight labour market. I hope we get less leave. Then there will be a major challenge for, among others. the social partners to avoid the disadvantages that a narrow labour market can represent for parts of the economy. I hope that no solutions will be chosen that will devalue groups of residents to only labour, or that labour will more and more be sold in bulk. I believe we have a good balance today in our employment laws and regulations, on dismissal, on working time and on hiring out labour. I think it is gratifying that the need for action jobs is estimated at as low as 8 000 next year. With the considerable experience we now have with such measures, we will have more impact on each site than we have had before. The reduced appropriations shall be adjusted if there is a deterioration in the labour market. We have to work to ensure that we still get low leave. I hear that the Workers' Party now sees itself best served to talk the vacancy up, in the same way that they have previously spoken the interest rate and the need for tightening up. The government's district effort has started important processes across the country. Because the state wants to have a different development, many more than before are using the imagination to reach young people who have moved out, and to address gaps in the local provision of services and jobs. The response to the experiment with commercial gardens has been enormous, and there are far more places being carried out than where SIVA can participate. I'm glad that 520 million. kr of the government's extra effort in the districts is in place in the budget we are adopting today. This is an example of how the Government has maintained its profile through difficult negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e613	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e616	I record that the representative Morten Lund thinks it is ‘happy’ that we have a low level of action. It just shows that he has not understood any of the things of the world about the new challenges facing the labour market in the labour market we now have, where the most important thing is to make sure that the weakest groups are brought in. When I signed up for this debate, it was because I thought I was going to experience a historic moment. I actually thought I was going to experience that the representative Morten Lund was going to stand on the pulpit and say that now the municipalities are getting well! Those of us who followed him a little bit in the last period, know that he spent the entire period traveling around and saying the opposite, that now the municipalities have it terrible. I thought I was going to experience the opposite -- I just did that to a certain extent. He did not quite manage to stand behind the budget that he himself is to be in and adopt today. It must be exhausting to be in the Center Party by day when you know how they spent the entire previous period just to travel around and promise everyone who wanted more money, more money, while they now have to be responsible for a budget that they obviously have a little trouble with themselves. I have a few questions for the representative Morten Lund: Christian People's Party and the Central Party write in the vote that they are'very satisfied with the district package proposed by the Government'. In this context, they also want a stable settlement, and being able to brake the moving flow is central. Last year, 180,000 people moved around the country. Does the representative of Lund count that with the district package presented by the Government, they will stop moving and become residents where they belong? And does the representative of Lund, with the municipal structure and the transfers adopted today by the majority, believe that the inhabitants of the municipalities around Norway will have a better or a worse service offer? Will they get better offers of school leisure arrangements, will they get better offers of kindergartens, will they get better offers of care for the elderly, or will this actually get worse? I think that's the last thing that's happened.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e629	I said in my post that it is gratifying that there is a need for such a low level of action, because unemployment has become so much lower, and we have really worked for that in the period that has gone on. During that period, we used, for example: the local economy as a means of increasing the number of people employed. We said that more money is needed for the municipalities in order to solve the tasks they have been assigned to them. Then it's necessary that they employ more people, and that also reduces unemployment, and it saves society in every way. What was the answer from the Workers' Party was: Don't give the municipalities any more money, because then they only hire more people, and we need the people in the export-oriented industry, because that's what we're going to live on. That was the answer from the Labour Party throughout the last period. I'm assuming that more people in this room still remember. The situation of municipalities is becoming difficult despite the fact that they get 11 billion kroner more in income next year. It has, among other things, the development of wages and salaries, and it has to do with the development of interest rates. We have to reverse that trend, and we hope that we can do that with a year that is as tight as it will be next year. But it is clear that it will be tough for those who are going to do the job, and for those who are responsible for it. I have never concealed that this is going to be a tight year. Then to the district policy, which was also mentioned in the line. We have to be trustworthy in all areas to those who live in the districts. I'm just mentioning a single measure. In spring, it was decided that the investment tax on agriculture should be abolished. The Labour Party in this budgetary round would go away from that. This concerns a profession that is important for housing in the districts, and it was extremely good that we got it back in place. The district package is not enough, but together with a good sectoral policy, it can help reverse the trend, reverse the flow of migration. That's what the government is aiming for, and I think people in the districts believe more in this government than they believed in the previous one.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e638	As expected, Morten Lund of the Senterpartiet entered into district policy. He came into the relationship of municipality-state, state detail management, and felt that state detail management was too strong. That's where I'm going with the representative Morten Lund. I'm glad that the Center Party is aware of those issues, but releasing the municipalities from state orders, state coercion and state override is one thing. In my view, the bureaucracy in the municipalities themselves is important in terms of strengthening the role of local politicians. Therefore, could it be interesting to ask the representative Morten Lund if there is no need here to slim down some of the positions in the bureaucratic system, all the bureaucrats employed in the individual municipalities, if he does not want to free the municipalities from the government, do he want to slim down the bureaucracy around the municipality of Norway in order to strengthen the role of local politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e643	I don't think there's any new idea around the municipalities that we want to spend the resources on providing services to the people and pay those who are going to do that job, and that we want to spend as much on local bureaucracy as possible. I think a lot of people have got hold of that idea. When they try to implement it, they meet, among other things. what I talked about in my post, the state control. It makes quite a number of people sit and make action plans, writing reports to show that they have fulfilled exactly what those plans have led to — after they have been granted the earmarked appropriations for which they have been applied for. So I think it's hanging in hops. If we release the municipalities more freely, so that they get free money instead of being addicted to stretching to the state carrots all the time, there will be less local bureaucracy. The fact that it has increased significantly in recent years, I think everyone who has been a little involved and run in the municipalities around, has seen clearly. But I think it has been necessary to increase this increase in the light of the developments we have had with circulars and regulations from the state. I can only mention as an example a county rapporteur who told me that they got a letter that now they would get more money to train more people in the healthcare system. It was a letter from the department, it was 16 pages, and it told them how to get hold of this money. It was by creating an objective, by creating an action plan and by making an application, and it was by reporting back on how this went. At the end of the letter, it said how much that county municipality would get. There were some and fifty thousand dollars. It illustrates quite well, I think, how the situation is in many municipalities and county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e648	In a joint remark with the government party, we are also doing some good on how a row of smaller cuts is made against the lack of additional electricity and fuel oil taxes and the extension of the employer's period within the sick pay scheme, a kind of liberally calculated zero-sum game, but in addition, our remark that the absence of tax increases leads to less pressure on price and wage developments. I assume that there was this representative, Lund, who was in the office when he expected about 450 million. kr in the improvement of the reconciliation. I have to admit that in my calculation problem a number is larger, at least if we calculate the annual effect. But I would like answers from Lund on whether he agrees with me that this fully reveals the Workers' Party's argument and the discrepancy of the Workers' Party when it relates to the comparison of numbers in the municipal sector, at least as far as the primary municipalities are concerned. And then I have another question, which goes into the broader idea of district policy. The weakest part of the deal is perhaps the lack of road construction in this country, which we have maintained as a high-value district policy. Does the representative Lund agree with me that, until next year, we need a strong commitment to meet our promises in Norwegian road and road traffic plans if the government party is to keep a bit of its trust in this sector?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e655	I think the Progress Party and the Right have been very positive in that they showed their willingness to participate in a budgetary settlement, which means that one is also behind proposals which are primarily not in agreement, but which are nevertheless a necessary way of obtaining a majority, both in our committee and in the European Parliament. The reason for this was the non-will of the Workers' Party to participate in a majority and thereby influence the political development of the country. I think it is worth mentioning also in the debate here that the Labour Party in two consecutive budgetary proceedings has simply said no to being part of and influence development through what is happening in the budget. With regard to the results for the local government sector through our agreement in relation to the Labour Party's proposal, I think the Labour Party is still 200-300 million. kr over. But I think that is a very small opposition supplement to a sector as large as this. It's very modest. If we think back to the last harvest, the central government was 700 million. kr higher in terms of the municipal sector than the Jagland government. If we think years back, there were billions of them. The opposition at the time followed up much better the signals from the rapporteurs, from the KS, than the Workers' Party has done in opposition. Well, road appropriations are also lacking in such a tight budget as this, and I hope that next year there will be room for both increased road appropriations, increased appropriations for the defence of that part, appropriations for the police, and not least for the municipal economy. I hope that the budget we have now presented will contribute to such a development, and not least that we will have a stable wage trend in the future which will then be more moderate than the wage-fixing process this year.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e664	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e667	Morten Lund of the Center Party now confirmed that you have to be in opposition to take in the reality that is outside this house. It seems to have joined several games. SV's budget is based on a good community economy, on fair distribution and on children and young people. The municipal economy has been adopted and represents a real contraction in the municipal sector of DKK 4.5 billion. There was therefore no need for good services for the population or for society to be wise and forward-looking in order to ensure the necessary and good competence for the next millennium that decided on the budgetary settlement. SV meant that one would put children and young people first. Now the goal was ‘no more money in taxes and taxes’. It wasn't very visionary – it wasn't even true, because the disease tax was increased by 700 million. kr. We now have an administrative policy that is trying to get ahead a little day by day, without drawing up clear goals and having some strategies to achieve them. Children and young people are losing, especially in the municipal sector, because, in order to trigger the earmarked grants for older people and health, municipalities need to cut the areas that are not now earmarked. That's when children and young people lose. For the economic policy of SV, it is generally low unemployment. In the Committee alone, we were told that one should not use unemployment as an instrument of economic policy. Does that mean that all other parties think it's more right to send people out on leave than to tighten in relation to those who have plenty, if you have to tighten in? The agreement and the government's policy are quite disastrous both because it increases unemployment and because it cuts the level of action so many unemployed lose out on action and training. On the contrary, SV will strengthen efforts in several areas, so that the unemployed can get to work, because that is actually possible. There are clear signs that there are no frameworks for good action. Societal economy is about the allocation of scarce resources. Now the differences are increasing. Why the Government will, I think it should explain. I miss the whole reason for giving the most to those who have the most from before. It's unsocial. The budget agreement is a defense for those who have, against those who do not. This agreement implies the strongest tightening of the Norwegian economy for many years, without the need for the high-income groups to contribute at all. Who are the rich, asked Erna Solberg in an article here instead. You might be able to discuss that, but if we see that a tightening is needed, but we don't want to hit young families who are in the start-up phase, we can, for example, do something about the student loan rate. It can be put down – it is a measure that we can take without having to hit the groups that others are engaged in. A year ago, SV was disappointed with the new government, because at first sight it put the policy to the right and entered into agreements that allowed dramatic leadership for all work. The agreement is now gradually extended and the possibility of other solutions is locked down. The path it has paved now is towards major differences, the reduction of the public sector, the privatisation of municipalities and more unemployment. The growth in the Norwegian economy has stopped completely, according to the latest forecast. Unemployment will increase by 0.8 percentage points. Several people are going to lose their jobs, including in municipalities and county municipalities. They will help increase unemployment. In addition, the agreement addresses structural changes in working life that will make it tougher for employees and easier for employers. The cuts in the labour market seat together with proposals to allow more overtime, leads to allow rental and private employment services are well-known civic proposals. The need for training and qualification has not diminished and can justify the cuts. On the contrary, the unemployed today, those without a job, need more to qualify than ever in the competition for jobs, and unemployment does not decrease either for immigrants or for people with disabilities. In particular, I would like to point out again the extended responsibility for the lone carers that the A-etat received when, in the context of the welfare notification, one cut the transitional aid period and introduced activity requirements. Many individuals are engaged in training and qualification in such measures. They are now at risk of losing the measures because the agency lacks money. And as if it wasn't enough, the government suggests that lonely people lose the transitional benefit if they're in training, if they start a new consensual relationship. These girls lose the training offer and the transitional benefit, and it's right back in the social office. What this does with motivation and maritime respect is easy to understand. It's a bad family policy, and it locks lonely caregivers in a situation of abstinence, demotivating instead of encouraging. SV has made proposals, and has received the agreement of the Workers' Party, that the Government should ensure that the training offered to lone dependants should continue. The commitment mandate may be used to finance the offer. In the proposal, the Government is also asked to return to the revised national budget in order to meet these obligations. So there's no place, neither in the proposition nor in the letters we received from the ministry, that these measures should be ensured. On the contrary, we are now receiving messages from the employment offices around the fact that such measures are being taken. That is why I would urge the government parties to support this proposal, because I believe that they agree with its intentions, so that we can be sure, on the part of the Stortinge, that these measures will not be abandoned. District Policy is one of the areas where we can see traces of the Center Party. Unfortunately, efforts are not effective when the pillar of regional policy, the local economy, fails and gets worse after the conciliation, where it is cut both in regional funds and in institutional grants. SV promotes two proposals which will mean a great deal to the districts and which should be supported by a district-friendly government. One is to develop a rural policy strategy for the labour market seat. The same policy is now required throughout the country. The requirements for geographical mobility have increased, and neither in the programme note for the ‘A’ budget nor in the ‘Proposition’, nor has it been stated that the labour market seat should take account of different parts of the country or areas of the country experiencing depopulation. People are the most important resource in the districts. You can't spend money on one budget to move people and businesses to the districts, and then order another department to send them off the farms again for the first time possible. Of course, the Directorate of Labour should not have moved from the Ministry of Local Affairs, but should have been there with the regional policy instruments. On the other hand, the government has done a good thing in the district policy that SV believes is good. It has set up regional funds, which give greater freedom to strengthen local choices, which local policy levels believe to be right. SV does not want more small, specialised schemes such as landfilling and government trying to fine-tune something that may be flashing one place, but completely bombing another place. For this reason, we want several of the regional policy instruments to be included in such a framework, and for local units, municipalities and county councils to be able to decide much more on what to support. And then the whole spectrum has to be used. If the school sector fails, a few people must be allowed to strengthen there. If public transport or road maintenance fails, there must be support. If there is a lack of competence in enterprises, a few can go in there. The SV therefore proposes that the Government should include several of the regional policy instruments in a framework that can be adopted and used more freely at the local level. This is linked to proposals that we will promote in the food debate later today. It is important that responsibility and power must follow the local level, and that the local level is not just left in the role of planner. So the use of u-help money. After the line change about it today, I wonder who in the world it is of the parties on the Stortinget who are really going to spend u-help money this way. Everyone, except the Progress Party, has now been in the form of an observation and said that they do not want to spend money like this. But everyone spends them — everyone spends the U.S. money in Norway. The progress party was up here today and told them to help the refugees in the surrounding areas. Then it's a little strange that they take the unhelpful money home and spend it on refugees in Norway. I think I'm going to have to get a clarification from the other parties about why they keep spending money this way when they all say that this is wrong. It's going to be a little bit of an impact on what you're saying. So, finally, a proposal we are promoting that the Government should consider extending the integration grant scheme for lone minor asylum seekers in line with the scheme for children under the care of Child Protection. Security and clear frameworks and follow-up are important in order to cope with and develop social inclusion and co-responsibility. Being included is a prerequisite for setting up and accepting the demands that society places on it. Growing up can be difficult, especially if you're unwanted. It's even harder if you carry inhuman experiences. In addition, if one is alone in another country and does not know if one can complete school or which adults to deal with after the age of 18, it will not be easier. If we want to fight crime and violence in children and young people, we also have to take care of them, and these children need our care more than anyone. I would like to address the suggestions on behalf of SV that have been made in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e701	Karin Andersen has taken up the suggestions she mentioned. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e706	In the beginning, I want to say that I have sympathy and understanding for many of the social attitudes that SV stands for, and in many ways, they are in line with my party. I still feel that some comments that were related to the last article were very one-sided, and that one needs a certain counterweight to get a balance. First of all, one of these made it quite clear and undeniablely clear that children and young people are getting worse, and that after having achieved the greatest family policy reform that has been carried out for a long, long time. It will strengthen the family and give it freedom of choice. Today, the family is under pressure from many sources – strong pressure, as much pressure as the family has barely experienced before. In such a situation, I also believe that SV is about to admit that measures that can help strengthen the family and encourage inner cohesion and mechanisms to give it more time together will be positive, instead of a broad pen to establish that the opposite will be the case. I had appreciated that one was a little less slippery. Secondly, you get a hearing here, too, that the unemployment rate will increase. It is clear that when we are at a historic low level when it comes to unemployment, it is not impossible for this to happen, but it is far from certain. A lot of what's in time would suggest that it's not so sloppy, but that the government would at least have a readiness if it did, to counteract it. Then it was also noted that if a tenant changed a relationship with a partner, the rules would change. I'd like to say that it should just be missing. We're trying to make arrangements to protect those who come into a suspended position. When changes are made, a policy must be adjusted to align it with the rules of a person's life.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e720	The representative Gedrem says that SV and the Christian People's Party have equal social attitudes in many ways. The difference is that SV believes that these have to be followed up in practical politics, and then we have to make some choices that might be tougher than the Christian People's Party has been willing to join. Then the Christian People's Party draws out the cash support as the major family policy reform. We have a different view of it, but I hope that the representative Gedrem has noticed that SV has tried to be constructive in the direction that Gedrem has now spoken about, namely in terms of time. What has happened now, and which has been enormously reinforced by this budget, is that there has been a price distortion in relation to kindergartens, because kindergartens are going to be unduly expensive compared to cash support. Studies now show that the introduction of cash support does not lead to people spending more time with their kids. They only use other child custody arrangements, and I have also registered that the representative of the Christian People's Party thinks it's just as good. You don't care what quality requirements you need. It's said that this is left to the family. SV wants society to set up child care systems that are so good and reasonable that people can choose them freely. It's important. Then we believe that changes in the cash support reform that are targeted at those who actually spend time with their children should be addressed, because we have not said no to that at all. But the Christian People's Party is more concerned with the freedom to choose an intern than with what is really happening in the family. So to the time off. The availability is going to increase with the budget presented here, because you're tightening up too much. In particular, the local authorities are tightening up, so that the municipalities actually have to cancel people. It's a reality that you now have to look in your eyes. This will also have to be taken into account by increasing the level of action, so that those outside the labour market do not become more and more disqualified for each day that goes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e733	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e736	According to a chronicle in Dagbladet last Saturday, the population has little confidence in Stortinget. People feel that the conflict over economic policy and the state budget is a game where the parties' positioning is more important than the economics of the country. The vote by the municipal committee will also reflect this game. Whether the Workers' Party may at best say that it has been unclear whether it has really had any real interest in compromise with a government that the same party has used every opportunity to produce as an accident for countries and people. The left has long had a certain impression that the party has been more concerned with facilitating a new working party government, and that detachment is seen as a better tactic than real, factual willingness to cooperate in such a game. In view of this, and of the willingness of the Workers' Party to cooperate with the Right to re-conquer the government power, many of the party's comments in the present setting are not credible. The same can be said about SV, which makes it easy for itself when the party spends money as a large majority in this hall, it doesn't think it's economic coverage for. The state budget is good for municipalities in many ways. It is in itself remarkable that the arrangements of the central parties have a net better impact on the sector than the government's original proposal after negotiations with the two parties that will have the greatest impact on the local economy. It shows that the negotiated budget is not at all a unilateral right-hand budget, but a budget in which the centre profile is clear. However, there are concerns about the situation in many municipalities. Increases in interest rates, wage-fixing and increased pension costs — all factors other than the government budget — help many to cut down on operations and welfare services. In the opinion of the Left, we have come to a time difference in terms of state overgovernment of municipalities. It is not possible to solve all the problems of increasing transfers. The state must reduce its detailed requirements, planning requirements, designation and other measures that are really a distrust of the local populace and local democracy. State over-management contributes to inefficient service production. It is so typical when the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party complain in the suspension that municipalities are given a longer period of time to follow up the older people's reform and the development of kindergartens, based on real local needs. The left believes it will strengthen local democracy and strengthen the service of the municipalities towards their own inhabitants if we give the municipalities greater freedom. Unfortunately, this is a heavy shot to turn around, and the 1999 state budget is by no means a long way from this. We welcome the pilot schemes put in place by the Ministry and the proposal in this way. The 1999 state budget will provide the strongest regional effort in many years. Actions will stimulate creativity and innovation, coordination and cooperation across local borders. The activities of business environments will contribute to IT development and small business start-ups where most needs to be done, and are important societal building. This too is an important central profile in the budget. That the bet is reduced by approx. One hundred million. kr from the Government’s original 620 mill. kr, is a small victim, when one knows that as well as the Right and Advance Party as the Workers' Party would have zeroed out that bet. Then it becomes pathetic when SV in the setting complains that the centre parties have been ‘pressing themselves to new cuts in the district package’. What kind of package would SV have had a majority with a working party government? An important challenge in the future will be to improve the provision of rental housing to students and others with problems with the private housing market. I refer to the comments of the centre parties on this. The increase in the Husbankan loan framework and the change in the rules on housing support are other examples showing that the Government is taking social housing matters seriously. In the area of refugee and asylum policy, the Left is pleased to note that it is a broad majority of the Committee and that the Progress Party will stand alone with its specific policies in this area. The budget has a social profile that the centre is pleased with, and all the parties on the Stortinget should join.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e762	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e765	I feel the need to take a little repetition exercise on the financial debate and not least on the debate on the revised national budget in ours. In the proposal, SV suggested tightening up more than the center parts and the working party, and that was because all the signals then pointed to that if you did not, the interest would go up. We actually tightened more in then. Now all the signals indicate that you are tightening too much, and that this will result in increased unemployment. I'm just asking the representative from the Left to read the messages from the Labour Directorate and take them seriously. How much you have to tighten up, you can discuss, but the discussion around it is going to be like this: you think of a number, and then you stick to it, no matter what happens around 1 in a month over the fall when the debate about the budget is going on. So you've been looking at this from the government's side, without anyone proving it was wrong, but also without interest taking any steps in the right direction. So this is a lot of numerical magic. I would like the real signals from the Norwegian economy to be taken into the debate rather than driving and hitting on some figures. Then I would like to ask the representative from the Left to point to the social profile contained in this budget. After all this has been done in the public economy, when all those who have income and capital are taxed, while those who are ill and have health problems receive a tax increase of 700 million. kr – where is the social profile in this budget?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e774	Now it is the case that one has certain budgetary procedures in the Storting, and it cannot be that at any time they make the last signals that one should go in and change a scheme that is planned by both the Ministry of Finance and other departments, and as the Government submits. But we do have procedures, of course, where a revised national budget comes back to the situation if things change. But the overall objective of the budget must not be forgotten: it is to bring interest down. That requires a certain degree of rigour in the budget. That rigour can, of course, be discussed. But at least there's one thing that I'm pretty convinced of, and it's that if you hadn't had tightness in this budget and the interest rate didn't go down, at least the government budget would have been blamed for not going down. Now we have a tightness. If, against the assumption, interest rates were not to go down, at least that is not the fault of the budget. This is due to other external factors such as oil prices, the crisis in the world economy, etc. But I would remind you that if we now experience that interest rates are falling and that conditions in the labour market are changing, we have a budget that has at least contributed to it. One percent decrease in interest rates is 440 million. kr in the costs saved to municipalities, and there is a significant uplift in that respect. Then we must also note that although this country consists of well 4 million inhabitants, there are considerable differences around Norway. The profile of the budget, with a significant effort in the districts to avoid or at least counteract the brain flow we have from the districts to the central areas, which is the greatest challenge of our time, is clear. In terms of the social profile for the rest, I only refer to NOK 1 billion in the increase in the mortgage lending framework of the House Bank, which has just a social profile.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e783	This becomes very unclear, because the representative Kongshaug says that, once you've decided on a number, you can't take signals along the way if they come. So I just have to ask if this really is a thoughtful policy. If the policies of the Left and the Central Government are such that if the size of the Norwegian economy or the international economy changes during the budgetary process, it should not be taken into account, either by the Government or by the Storting. I think it's eye-catching, and it's irresponsible. So Kongshaug says about the discussion about interest that if interest goes down now, it's good. But if it doesn't, at least it's not the government parties and the conciliation. Do you have any idea that this tightening is right, or do you not have any idea that this tightening is right? This gives a signal that you're not sure if what you're doing means anything at all. If it doesn't matter, you point at others, and you owe them, for example. The world economy. That's right -- it plays a very important role, but then you might be a little less sure that the exact tightening you've put in, it's the instrument that best hits the economy and does something about the interest rate level. I wish you could discuss these things with a little bit less passion and a little bit bigger and more open eyes about what's actually happening in the economy, and maybe also be a little more honest and a little bit more open about the tools you want to use. The government is now using unemployment as a tool to bring down the interest rate. It considers SV to be wrong, and it is not a social profile in such a budget to use unemployment as an instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e792	It's a fact that communication is not easy. It may be the one that sends the signals, which is unclear, but it may as well be due to the antenna to receive the signals. It must be clear that the tightness of the budget we are now dealing with has a general objective, and that is to bring interest down, which in turn affects the finances of the municipalities. The representative Karin Andersen says we don't take into account the signal, but that's exactly what I said we're doing. We have procedures that suggest that if we get a signal that there are certain assumptions in the budget that are not correct, then we have an opportunity to come back to it in the revised budget. My claim is – to make it quite clear: budgetary rigour is correct. Then again, I would like to refer to the district package in the budget, which has the necessary profile to allow the very municipalities and the areas that are facing the greatest challenges if the economy is to be mitigated to be able to take advantage of the arrangements in the budget. We can go into this budget in 1999 with a belief that we are on the right track. And then we're going to hope that the other elements that work in, as it's not in the power of this hall to influence, go in the positive direction.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e801	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e809	Satisfied budget-mates at Stortinget, while the central party rapporteur is raging against the budgetary agreement, we can read in Moss Avis from 26 November this year. This is not a single alarm from a single rapporteur in Eastfold, for we have never experienced such a unisonous cry for help from the Municipality of Norway. In order to balance their budgets, schools and kindergartens need to be closed down, the school leisure system is becoming much more expensive, hospital activity needs to be reduced and the development of care for the elderly reduced to next year compared to the adopted older package. The few would have thought that it was this municipal budget that would be the «flagship» in relation to the Voksenå Declaration – a budget with even more right-wing policy, and that would give the municipalities even less money. Tax relief will be central, but in return there will be many and large tax increases outside the municipalities. If welfare services are to be saved, the parental benefit for kindergartens and school leisure schemes needs to be greatly increased and water, sewerage and renovation charges need to be increased accordingly. Older people and caregivers need to be given increased privileges. All these increases are flat. Those who have the least to go with already have to do as much as those who have the most. Everyone knows that the weakest ones are left as the biggest losers. And this accepts a center government that was so busy balancing the differences between people when they were in opposition. Now there are tax reliefs to the richest that have become the most important thing for the central government. The Bondevik government has more than halved the ordinary labour market measures, from an average in 1998 of 15 000 places all the way down, following the comparison with the Right and the Advance Party, 7 000 places in 1999. The Directorate of Labour says that unemployment can reach 70,000 to next year. Therefore, the Labour Party believes that the level of action for the next year is irresponsiblely low. There are still 50,000 unemployed people who need schooling, work training or retraining to get to work. Only in Østfold, Norwegian Fine Paper AS went bankrupt with 180 employees yesterday, and the 200 employees at Moss Glassverk received notice of termination. The employment offices in Eastfold say they will have no opportunity to offer all these people an offer of retraining. Most of these are unskilled. They need re-schooling. Now, the option is to go passively and get a daily allowance. This is meaningless, and it is an incredibly defensive policy by the Government. Everyone, society as a whole, is losing on such a policy. We get more sick, more disabled and more become social clients. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have consistently opposed the granting of funds for labour market measures. Now the center parts have given up for the pressure. That's what we in the Workers' Party think is sad. Lonely caregivers who are now under education are at risk of being forced to quit. The labour market seat is the main player in finding single dependants in the workplace. Take, for example: childcare. Today, childcare is organised through labour market measures. If this goes away, as it is now reported that there is a risk from the employment offices, and the whole project falls away. We have 10,000 unemployed young people between the ages of 16 and 24. We have almost 10 pst. leave of residence of immigrants and refugees. These are the ones that become the losers in relation to the budget. The working party takes the strong signals of increased unemployment seriously. We are therefore increasing the allocation of labour market measures by 159 million. kr. At the same time, we're increasing the number of jobs in the A-station. I would like to commend the Government for continuing special labour market measures at the same level as the size decided last year. It is very important that these measures are not weakened. The working party also supports an extension beyond the proposed 70 ASVO sites. The Labour Party believes that labour market enterprises’ services can be well suited to the qualification of some within the group of refugees, psychiatric patients, disadvantaged young people and older workers who have problems in the open labour market. Even such a cautious reference to helping the weakest in the labour market did not venture the Center Party and the Christian People's Party to join the Committee. But this is what happens when the “Brother”, the Right and the Advance Party, decides.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e827	Government governance of the local government sector through laws, regulations, control activities and red tape requires significant resource use in its 435 municipalities. The formality, state control and reporting requirements, thousands of legal provisions and regulations take up a lot of time and resources that could have been much better used for real service production in municipalities. Many municipalities find it problematic to deal with all the state requirements and reporting requirements that exist and that continue to flow across Norwegian municipalities from the departments. Requirements for the preparation of plans mean that the municipality of Norway is gradually drowning in different types of plans, and the consequence is that the bureaucracy is escalating as the required amount of tasks increases. Both growth and government should become more aware of a reduction in the government requirements for municipalities. Municipalities should be given a more freer position, where increased autonomy must become an important part of the overall conversion of the Norwegian municipal sector. However, the municipal sector must also be willing to go on its own and examine its way of organising and carrying out its own activities, and not exaggerate its dissatisfaction with the fact that the state is constantly imposing tasks on them without accompanying money. Because in Norway we have grown public monopolies too long as a matter of course. That time must now be over. Rather than cutting service generation due to poor economy, it is appropriate to first examine whether municipal services can be provided cheaper and thus maintained through competitive delay. Poor municipal economy can be turned to better. Conversions that would not be needed with a good economy may now be completely necessary in short economic times. The suspension of competition should therefore not be outlawed in any municipality as an opportunity to compensate for any budget cuts. Local policy freedom of action can be significantly increased as a result of the release of funds through more cost-effective municipal operations. In fact, public monopolies in health and care are difficult to find in a modern society like Norwegian. The requirement for cost-effective municipal operation will be considerably increased in the coming period, for the limit of shifting costs to taxpayers in the form of further increased taxes and charges, it is almost impossible to imagine. ‘Changeover’ is the key to increasing cost-effectiveness in municipalities. But what does this word mean, which everyone likes and loves? The word has different content, depending on party membership. However, a shift that does not include a reasonable degree of suspension of competition in municipal service production will only have marginal effects. Some Norwegian politicians' sense of public monopolies is a strange phenomenon, and the prejudice to the excellence of monopolies is unlikely to win a bite of hearing in the next generation. It is easy to understand that the Workers' Party's commitment to the Norwegian Municipal Association inhibits the privatisation debate in the country's largest party. But they're on the run there, too. On the other hand, government parties should have been further encouraged to enter the public sector market. In this way Ivar Østberg's response to my reply was somewhat disappointing. The Government Parties should be more active in expressing a more nuanced view of modernisation of the local government sector by the fact that these parties should allow postponing competition and privatisation to be subject to a more open and pragmatic approach. The main problem with public monopolies is that they are not time-consuming in relation to the growing demand for increased diversity and personal freedom of choice. Moreover, any monopoly has a strong tendency to develop low efficiency, high costs and, rather, varying quality. The time has come for the public to think about getting rid of the monopolies and to be better equipped to use the modern, efficient market to carry out the heaviest common tasks of the local and county sectors today. For example, monopoly thinking in the municipal health and care sector should soon be at the end of the road. If we are to be able to meet the heavy commitments in the future and avoid the failure of the welfare society in basic welfare areas, we also need to be willing to reorganise public activities so that municipalities are able to cope with the challenges they face. We must give the public sector the opportunity to act as a modern player in the market, an actor who purchases his services in the civil market from those who can perform the best, fastest and cheapest services. Thus, municipalities only have to pay the bill for the users, while independent enterprises should carry out the actual work on the basis of the tendering principle. However, if we continue to develop the municipal monopolies in areas such as health and care, it will exacerbate the possibility of maintaining a high level of these public services in the future. On the other hand, if municipalities engage in close cooperation with the civil, private market, the opportunities for providing good services to the population increase considerably. People's speech is in this way also perfectly clear. People are not concerned with who performs the public services only because they are of good quality and are easily accessible when the need is there. I will allow myself to claim that even SV will once realise that this is correct, but they do not believe it until they see it. Public exclusive rights to perform basic services to the inhabitants are cynical and undemocratic, and it is not at all in line with the humane humane view that we like to salute ourselves for having in this country. Municipal monopolies are a formidable barrier to the effective reorganisation of the municipal sector. However, only when a majority in this country realises that postponement of competition, increased private entry and emphasising of personal freedom of choice will have to be the most central means of organising public activities will we achieve the transformation in the municipalities that is absolutely essential and necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e863	I will not repeat any arguments or views from the financial debate about the need to pursue a tight fiscal policy. I'm also not going to spend time pointing to the turbulent political situation and various more or less interesting issues that have been put in place before the budgetary conciliation between the government parties and the Right and the Progress Party. I will concentrate on my own budget, and I am happy to say that we are in agreement with the refugee, asylum and integration policies we have set up. We get a majority – it's actually a unanimous committee – to increase the integration grant. It is important to ensure the fastest possible settlement of asylum seekers and refugees. And it was time, because it hasn't been adjusted since 1994. We also agree to strengthen the UDI, so that we can speed up the processing of asylum applications and applications for work permits. The government is now working on regulatory changes, so that we can make it easier for those in reception to get a job. And of course I've noticed the Committee's comment on that point. We also agree to continue the follow-up of the Centres to ethnic discrimination and appropriations for immigrant organisations and voluntary activities. I have also noticed with pleasure that we are getting in touch with the Government's work and environmental plans. There is no amendment for any of the institutes that sort under that area. We are getting in touch with increased appropriations for the Sameting, and for the Sameting to be given greater freedom of priority within the given framework. We also agree to the housing policy framework, to join in improving housing support for families with children by increasing it to the same level as for pensioners, and to agree to abolish the housing delimitation for families with children with regard to rentals. As regards the conversion of the housing grant, which has been commented on by several people here today, it is a consequence of the critical remark of the National Audit Office on the way it was previously budgeted. Let me make it clear – because there has also been a topic earlier in the debate: This is how the arrangement is now, it is the allocation plus the commitment authorisation that together indicates the level of activity. In the case of changes to the transitional arrangements for housing aid, a more rapid phasing-out scheme has been established, the coverage has been proposed to be reduced from 80 to 60 p.p., and let me make it clear that ordinary housing aid is not affected by this change. Thus, only those who received the living allowance before the coordination in 1997 will be affected. There is also a commitment to increase the Bank's lending framework by NOK 1 billion. This will allow both for the follow-up of social housing and for the follow-up of the elderly. I think that might prove to be important next year. Let me say that I am also pleased that we are getting a majority for a significant strengthening of district policy measures at approximately. 500 million. kr. In fact, regional policy is the first significant increase in the 1990s. It allows the Government to follow up the announced actions and efforts that I highlighted in the district policy statement I kept in ours. And let me remind you that the need for such a district policy effort has actually not become less now than it was in ours. We continue to have too much centralization, and the movement flows are still very one-sided. I have noticed with some wonder that the Workers' Party is proposing to cut the district bet by over 390 million. kr. The fact that new measures have been proposed is understandable to me, but that the appropriations to follow up the efforts of the counties and regional cooperation are proposed, I find it rather surprising, given the comments made by the Workers' Party, that it is where they feel it is important to bet. As regards the establishment grant, I have taken note of the comments made by the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Right and the SV, in which they underlined the critical comments made by the National Audit Office on how the establishment grant was used in relation to the Storting's assumptions. I assume that the majority is aware that this applies to the conditions of the previous government, in the years 1996-97. Let me therefore tell you that we have made changes already for the current year. Among other things, as is known, 40 pst. from this year onwards, the scholarships are awarded to women. In addition, the counties must give priority to establishment in the districts. I also assume that everyone is aware that this is a nationwide scheme, that the states are following this in practice. With regard to the criticism of so-called unspecified purposes, which has also emerged, that not everything has just gone to start-up, I will be allowed to draw attention to the fact that the states in the establishment grant guidelines are given the opportunity to use up to 20 pst. of the means of follow-up to newly established persons. It has proved to be both useful and effective to have this follow-up capability, as it is in the very early years of the start-up phase that it can be quite heavy. Then I'll be allowed to say a little about the municipal economy. I would like to remind you that when I presented the municipal economic proposition in ours, I said that it would be a tight arrangement for the municipal sector in 1999. I also said, and I would like to remind you today of what has happened in the debate so far, that there are great variations between municipalities. Some actually have it quite well, while others are struggling terribly hard to get the ends to meet. It's natural that those who have big problems are also the ones who go top of the field to get attention about it. We also know from experience that one thing is the draft budget proposed by the councillors, something else is the budget adopted by the local government. We have experience that many of the proposed cuts, e.g. in cross-border schools or kindergartens, in fact, when the municipalities have completed their budgetary procedures. Figures show that after the Agder model was introduced into the income system, we have received these annual school closure plans. Number material shows that it is approx. 25 pst. which has been terminated in relation to the proposal made by the advisers. Let me also say that I am pleased that we are getting the flexibility in the elderly bet that it is now being added to, because we have received enquiries from many municipalities saying that they will not be able to follow up this with such a tight deadline as four years, but that they must have some more time. We're glad that there's now a majority for such a flexible system. This means that these municipalities can be confident that they will receive grants even after four years. Let me say that I have also noticed the Workers' Party's remark where they say that they do not want to go in either so that the government should provide compensation for increased wage growth and increased pensions. I therefore believe that there is a broad political consensus on the principles that have so far been followed in this area. Let me also make it clear that the budgetary compromise between the Government Parties, the Right and the Advance Party gives as a sum that changes to the income and expenditure of the local government sector are going to be almost zero. In other words, it is not right, as has been said, that this compromise leads to an increase in the burden, which some have used as an expression, on the municipal sector. So to the Roman Numerals Decision, we want to follow that decision, of course. I think it's good that the majority of the committee wants to make such an attempt, and we'll follow it up and present it in the context of the community economic proposition for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e893	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e896	: I want to focus on one thing, and it concerns the ageing effort, which a unanimous increase has decided to take place in four years. It is a necessary boost for the many older people in need of sick homes and nursing homes. Then came the government's signals after the decision that it didn't matter if the municipalities spent a little more time. One can ask questions about how clever it is to express such things. Then came the draft budget for next year, and there was a cut in relation to what a unanimous increase had previously said about the money needed to implement this in four years. The reason was that it was okay that one spent two more years, and therefore needed a smaller amount of money next year. The Government's proposal has not been amended in the budgetary agreement currently concluded between the Government Parties, the Right and the Advance Party. That is, there are no more dollars in it than the government has proposed for this item, sail if the Progress Party is trying to produce it like this. Then it means that there is a danger that there will be fewer nursing homes and nursing homes until next year, and it will not help to have political guarantees if the money is not there. I would also like to say that the Labour Party has not said, as the Progress Party has suggested, that those who spend more than four years will not receive more money. It's not in any papers. But we have said that we will stand by the promise that the elderly we have promised will have nursing homes and nursing homes in four years, will get it. My question to the Council of State is: Can the Council of State guarantee that all municipalities that plan to build nursing homes and nursing homes for the next year will receive money for this? And is that coverage for it within the framework that will be adopted in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e907	What the government has proposed, and to which I have understood that the majority have joined, is that instead of imposing four years of reform on municipalities, those who need it have the opportunity to spend two more years. And as I said, we have received quite a number of enquiries from municipalities that they need better time to plan and get a setup that makes them make the best use of resources. We thought it was reasonable that the municipality could do so. Then it is to say, for the implementation of such reforms, that there must be a certain similarity between the free incomes being introduced and the excesses of the earmarked grants, which we know the municipalities themselves must contribute. I have registered that the Workers' Party in its transfers in the framework of the next year has an increase in fresh money of 200 million. kr. However, if there is a redistribution from tax revenue and on a framework basis, the framework transfers become larger. I can't answer the direct question I got, say if all those who are applying to start the development of the care for the elderly next year can be allowed to do so. Those applications are not in my department, they are actually in the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, and they are the ones that have the exact overview of this at all times. But according to the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, there are enough appropriations in the proposal that is now there.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e916	I want to grasp something that the Council of State did not have in mind. After a number of correspondences between the Progress Party and the Ministry, some of the immigrant organisations currently receiving public support are not nationwide, as is the case in St.prp. No 1 assumes - and I quoted from the proposition in my main post today. What is then my question is whether the Council of State will now review these organisations, and whether those who do not meet the requirements that the Ministry itself has seen for public support for the enterprise, that it should be a nationwide organisation, and that it should also be member-based to a certain extent. My question is quite simply: is the Council of State willing to review this and get to clean up what we in the Progress Party do not think is in accordance with the criteria that the Ministry itself has seen?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e923	We have followed the practice that the preconditions for nationwide organisations to be supported by the State budget are that they contribute, through their general activities and their specific activities, to real equality between immigrants and the Nordics, and to the active participation of immigrants in society and become the maritime wheels. In my view, it must be more important that the purpose of the grant schemes be achieved than that of the organisations choosing to organise themselves. Let me make it clear that we are going to continue the practice we have had, by closely following up the organisations by the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and by our department. Strict reporting and fulfilment of the conditions for the quarterly payment of the grant are required. We believe that the way in which we have practised this, and the legislation we have followed so far, is in line with the wishes of the majority of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e928	After listening to the statements of the Council of State, I am tempted to say that it may not have been so dangerous with a little of the Right Policy since, after all, the Council of State is particularly pleased that she has had a positive impact on large parts of her budget also in a conciliation with the Right – despite the fact that I have understood it so that the Councils of the Central Party had primarily wanted a settlement another way. I think the Council of States might be right about that. I think that the Council of State has been given much of the budget, and that she has received good advice on new measures, through the work that has been carried out in the Committee. In one area, on the other hand, I am a little surprised at the majority's position. This is a proposal on which the Progress Party and the Right are united in the vote, where we have asked the Government in connection with the State budget for the year 2000 to present an assessment of various reception organisations, including the Swedish model, where asylum seekers also live in private homes. As far as I have seen newspaper headlines – and my knowledge here is limited to what I have seen in Norwegian media – the Swedes have actually been very pleased with a model where asylum seekers can also be placed in private homes. In particular, the wish expressed by the Enlarged Committee is that there should be better integration at an earlier stage. That's why we think it would have been interesting if we both got a review of the experiments that are currently taking place with different types of reception organization, and heard about the Swedish experiences. Now I have registered that the department, when this was mentioned in the media, showed that it was interesting tones. I would like to ask the Council of State: despite the fact that the majority of the population is not now going to impose this on the Government, will the Council of State nevertheless do this on the basis of our interest in getting the most professional attention in terms of how we are going to get both the best integration and the lowest possible cost of this work?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e935	Let me say that I have no reason to be dissatisfied with the budget compromise that has been reached on my areas. I would also be so bold to say that I would assume that the situation for the municipalities and districts had not become significantly better in a budgetary compromise between the Right and the Workers' Party, which was the alternative. So to the question. We plan next year to take a broad review of the entire receiver, where the Swedish model will also be subject to assessment. It is true, as Erna Solberg pointed out, that Sweden's experience may indicate that they achieve faster integration with this model. The back of it – to put it that way – is that it causes asylum seekers to become concentrated in very few geographical areas. While we in Norway have tried to settle them widely, not clumping them in a few areas, in a few municipalities, but trying to get them to live throughout the country, using the Swedish model can help to make them clumsy in a few municipalities where today most asylum seekers, refugees and immigrants live. But we will, as I said, take a review of the whole scheme and, among other things, we will. also evaluate the Swedish model, and then we come back with what we might have from experience and suggestions for any conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e942	I notice that the government, when they're about to talk about the deal they've been on, instead of defending the content of it points to others and says they're worse than us. I wish that this government kept a little higher some of the things they're actually concerned about, and where they're going to bet in the future, and then you get to pick the strategy then. So the Council of State said there must be some consistency between the reforms, the earmarked grants and the free revenues. It's not like that now. This is not the case in the Workers' Party's arrangement either. But the government has to take responsibility for what it does maritime. The government should take the consequences of this and tell the local government that there are a few things you have to do next year because we see that you don't have money for it. The result now is that municipalities actually have to cancel people and have to make the offer worse for their inhabitants. One of the problems is that they have to offer to children and young people because they have to distort the economy so as to disburse the funds for elderly care and health, but they also have to greatly increase municipal ownership and fees. I would like to ask the Council of State if she can confirm that it is correct that the draft budget means an increase in the excess of the excess of sickness and health on the part of the Government, and that, in addition to this, the municipalities are forced to charge the maximum of taxes and accruals on the municipal sector. And I want to ask you in particular whether it's not that this also applies to kindergartens, that with the budget proposal that has now been put up, you're going to end up with higher kindergarten prices now than you had before. And won't that mean that the price-changing effect between cash support and kindergarten gets much worse next year than it was in the arrangement from the beginning of?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e949	Let me first say again – I thought I had said that many times in my post – that I am happy to have the support and majority for almost everything we have put forward. I am therefore pleased that we have got a budget line together with the Right and the Advance Party, which means that the municipal sector is going to come out in total about the same way as the proposal originally made by the Government. So now I hope everyone has got what I'm saying. I was actually afraid that I would be criticized for being satisfied with too much, that I had got too much through – I have actually got through most of it. But now leave it. So the relationship between free income and earmarked grants. It's a theme that's important to keep up, and it's a theme that I'm going to keep up, and because I didn't get it in my main post, I'm going to say that the government is now trying again to review legislation and earmarked grants and see if it's possible to get a simplification. It's true, as it was said here, that this has been tried twice before in the 1990s without any specific results. But we're going to try a round again because we see that it's necessary to achieve a better balance between earmarked grants and free income. In addition, it is encouraging that so many in the debate have pointed out that it is necessary to reduce the detailed governance of the State in the municipal sector. It's important. I hope that is the agreement of the representatives of the various parties in e.g. the Committee on Church, Education and Research, the Social Committee or the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs on such simplification.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e957	It has been somewhat unclear what the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Right and the Advance Party really means for the income of the local government sector. The Workers' Party has understood this so that the settlement actually involves a real cut in the transfers to the municipalities. The extent of this cut is somewhat unclear, because we have received various answers from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Local Affairs on questions, and I ask the Minister of Municipal Affairs to answer a little. Let me also quote the Council of State from a reply in the course of a similar debate last autumn: ‘If I am allowed to respond on the basis of my personal assessment – and then I ask that it be perceived as such – the biggest failure is the fact that the government has not adjusted the price of the earmarked grants. As a result, too much of the free income of the municipalities is tied up. I would probably have prioritised it first, because I believe that ensuring that municipalities get the most free resources will also help to make local policies more interesting." My question will then be: Why has the Council not proposed to adjust the earmarked grants in the year's budget as estimated by the Council of State itself in the budget proposal to approx. 700 million. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e969	Let me repeat: the budget compromise between the government parties, the right and the Progress Party shows that when all the pluses and minuses are included, it goes into about zero. In other words, for the municipal sector as a whole, there is no particular difference in the budget proposed by the central government, and in the budget compromise currently in place. But there's one big difference, and that's that input-driven funding increases from 45 pst. to 50 p.m., and then the frames of the county councils are reduced accordingly, at a rate of NOK 1 billion. That's the big change. So until it was asked, why hasn't the government adjusted the earmarked grants? We've actually done that with someone, but we didn't have room to do that with everyone. I assume that everyone is aware that we have a difficult economic situation, and that all parties apart from the Progress Party say that there is a need to tighten up. But we have adjusted the price of the Nord-Norway grant, we have adjusted the price of the district grant, and we have also adjusted the price of the population grant for refugees and asylum seekers in the municipalities. That's what's price adjusted. And it was high time, because none of these grants have been price adjusted in four years.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e976	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e979	The leader of the Central Party has claimed that there is now enough right-wing policy in this country. With that background, I hope someone can explain to me how it is possible to make a deal with the Progress Party and the Right and at the same time claim that the agreement in total represents a profile center management. In my opinion, it is possible if the motto is that double morality is better than no morality. For serious political activity, I think it is harmful. A total increase promised the reform of the elderly, and the reactions to the majority now abandoning that promise are strong. When KS in Nord-Trøndelag held its meeting on 15 October, the following opinion was adopted – and it is worth noting that 19 out of 24 rapporteurs belong to the Centre Party: ‘One thing is that the municipalities/communities get all frustration and anxiety among employees and others who work directly against the user groups when the follow-up to the central investment is not followed up in the general economic structure. Something quite different and more serious is the situation of those who are to have the services and their expectations of standardising them. Regrettably, this goes beyond credibility/increases the political debate’. I remember an election campaign event in Steinkjer in 1997, where, in a duel with Marit Arnstad, I tried to explain that there was no room for major reforms when the Stortinget had adopted the older reform. Arnstad's answer was, "We're done with it." Yes, that's right, we were done with the decision here in the hall, but the job of prioritising the money for the implementation of the plan was also to be done. It is therefore disappointing that decisions taken by Stortinget are now set aside. This applies not only to the elderly reform, but also to transitional arrangements for housing aid. Nearly 22,000 households were the ones that were granted transitional arrangements in the second semester of this year, and it is the group of old-age, survivors' and survivors' pensioners who are affected when the transitional scheme comes down to 60 pst. 1999 onwards. The transitional arrangements were adopted here in Stortinget, and we believe that this is a promise to the Workers' Party to stand by. We are aware that for each household it is not about the large amounts, but for the type of households that are eligible for housing support, we believe that NOK 900 is important for the economy. One consequence of the comparison between the government parties, the Advance Party and the Right is that the item Housing grants for establishment, repair and rental properties are now down to NOK 250 million. The record has been dramatically reduced since 1996, when it was 560 million. kr. It is the weakest in the housing market that is hit by these cuts. In the Eastern Mission, it was informed that the Municipality of Oslo would reduce its plans for 200 rental dwellings to 150 as a consequence of the reduction in the State budget. And this is done in a situation where the number of homeless people, among others. Here in Oslo has increased dramatically, and where there live families with children at the hostel who absolutely should have had another offer. One can of course say that the areas I have mentioned do not constitute the large amounts, and that is probably right. But anyway, there are small steps in an unsocial direction that we in the Workers' Party cannot stand for. When we had the national meeting, we discussed distribution. Where are the calls from the Center Party on Difference Norway? Does the party not see that the policy pursued with the Progress Party and the Right is increasing the difference between the economically strong and the economically weak? And then finally, the representative Morten Lund said it's right for the Workers' Party to talk up the unemployment, as the Workers' Party has also talked up the interest rate. Then the conclusion of Morten Lund must be that it is irrelevant who sits in government and what kind of policy is being pursued, what matters is what the Workers' Party says. In addition, the representative, Mr Lund, regrets that the Labour Party has acted in such a way in the budget negotiations that we do not have any influence. It would have been an advantage if the representative Lund could have decided how much influence the Workers' Party has.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1001	In general, it is the pervasive and somewhat surprising thing that characterizes the setting we are debating today. Only at some points do arguments and priorities emerge that are not already well developed, mainly in the financial debate. However, the labour market seat and the spectrum of measures in that context are subject to extra attention. First of all, I would like to welcome the fact that this year too, a re-prioritisation for the benefit of the disabled. In this area, we still have well over 50,000 individuals who are entitled to public service. The replacement is large, but the recruitment corresponds to the departure, which distinguishes this chapter from the ordinary actions. There is a full consensus in the Committee that the schemes for the disabled are and should be a future priority public task. Not all of the entity's activities should have such a status. The Blaalid selection has outlined future privatised functions before brokering and renting. This is in line with previous proposals from our side, and we believe it now facilitates multiple major changes here. This is also included in the agreement attached to the budgetary agreement. Together with the Progress Party, we propose to reduce the number of annual jobs in the labour market seat by 10 pst. by the year 2000. Looking at the relationships between the size of the unit and the development of unemployment, this proposal has to be said to be very little dramatic. Nevertheless, there is a minority proposal, so there are still political challenges associated with understanding the plural. Now, a slight fluctuation in the number of unemployed people has had an incredible political interest in the last few days. From the financial debate, we think that both the Labour Party leadership, the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister spent a lot of time interpreting an increase in unemployment of 1600 over three months – or maybe there was no increase in the total. At the same time, we experience that those who talk one day about unrelenting unemployment are talking about a tight labour market the next day. In view of the figures that have marked the reality of the 1990s, this discussion seemed a little strange. After a long decline in unemployment, there must be at some point in time numbers that break this trend. Now there may be other indicators that have a greater signal effect on future unemployment than the 1600s mentioned here. In our view, however, there is a defensive policy that, without being forced to do so, will focus on large-scale public management of unemployment rather than focusing on the framework conditions for business and our competitive relations with the rest of the world. Some of the same can be found in the political image of the instrument – municipal and regional nutrition funds. We want a twist away from bureaucratic procedures and proposals, more focus on simple and good framework conditions and public investment in infrastructure. In fact, this year we experience that not having applied for or received a grant is a handicap for a company by public assessment in proceedings against other laws. Our comment on this is that there should be limits to politics. We don't need a clumsy public hand on everyone's wheel. There are plenty of challenges for the public in the nuclear domain. In addition, there has been a great deal of attention in the budgetary process in favour of nursing homes and sick homes. For those of us who see disadvantages related to extensive ear marking, the extension involves positive elements from four to six years. Short-term ear-ring reforms are the most damaging to local democracy. The start-up rate and the compensation for interest payments are the main motivating factor for standard raising within the sector. Progress may be required if the scheme is to be terminated without delay. I see no other key steering tools here than the stakes and beyond the threat or decided to terminate the system. As many others have said, in a less acute situation, it may be possible for several municipalities to have more peace of mind about planning and development. The majority have also stated that any changes in the licensing requirements will be addressed in the revised national budget. So this new proposal from the Government is without active brakes, and the promise proposal is going to be more like an estimate, at least in my eyes. If the minority does not want to interrupt the reform action after four years, there is little real policy inconsistency except for the stipulated need for annual readmission. So the rates and municipal conditions for compensation are kept even if the time pressure is reduced, and so the scheme is continued. A recent interpellation debate on employer policy and municipal frameworks clarified that this municipal crisis understanding could provide different solutions. SV has invested most in the allocation of resources to the municipal sector, but others, like us in the Right, also want a structural debate on the level of government, municipal boundaries and efficiency through competition. Growing cooperation across local borders, the purchase of top skills in the market instead of trying to solve all the tasks with their own added hopes that I will more often be the answer for smaller municipalities. As a municipal politician said to me a few days ago, adding costs. Do you get the tipping skills you want? And how long does the competence possibly last? Some municipalities have such projected needs that there is not a single budget proposal here in the house that will solve the flock. The response will be an effective solution and service production in the municipalities. The answer is not job creation in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1016	In fact, the municipality sector in Norway manages more than DKK 200 billion, and the majority go to the welfare state. In this respect, I would like to comment on two points that have been raised in the debate. One is that it must be very pleasant for the representative Erna Solberg from the Right to have made a settlement, for then she will not tell about the Right Cut. And it must be very all right for this government – in which the Central Party sits – that Right wants to cut the transfers to the districts by NOK 1 billion and cut the framework grant to the municipalities, the free revenues, by SEK 1.9 billion, so Right does not want to explain to us what they want to cut the welfare benefits in terms of the school leisure arrangements, in terms of our health pay scheme, where they have found a new variant and a new twist where they have to pay 50 pst. the first three days and since 90 pst. when we get sick, and they don't tell us about cuts in the aid amounting to 1.4 billion kroner. Then there is one thing for this debate that has shown: the representative Morten Lund has explained how the Workers' Party as an opposition party should conduct budgetary proceedings. He tells us in historical reflections from the previous period in the municipal committee about how, Morten Lund in opposition plus billions of dollars, and now he tells us that we in the Labour Party are not good enough to do exactly the same. But we have been and we are a responsible party, so we have a budgetary policy that is in line with reality. It will be exciting to experience the representative Morten Lund when he comes into opposition and see what the budgets will look like – because they're pretty tight now when he's in position. The labour party's 1999 alternative state budget represents a significant strengthening of labour market policy. We want to grant 500 million. kr more to ordinary labour market measures, corresponding to approx. 5000 additional places, and approximately 12 million. to the operating budget of the labour market budget in relation to the budgetary settlement. In the original proposal in St.prp. No In 1998, the Bondevik Government proposed a strong cut in the ordinary labour market measures, from an annual average of about 1 % in 1998. 15 000 places to an annual average in 1999 of about 15 000 places. 8 000. In addition, the Government has proposed to reduce the number of posts in the Labour Market Act by 147 in 1999. The working party believes that this is too big and too drastic a cut. There are still many unemployed people who want to participate in such measures. The Directorate of Labour was also not satisfied with the draft budget of the Government. In the budget agreement, the Government and the right-hand side have proposed further cuts in labour market measures of 100 million. kr. This corresponds to about 1000 fewer sites for action next year. The total level of ordinary labour market measures then amounts to about 7000. The working party believes that this extract makes the situation even worse for the unemployed who want to take active action. The level of response sites is too low as long as there are more signals that unemployment may increase next year. This will affect the weakest and is a very poor policy for distribution. The Youth Guarantee is now under heavy pressure. New forecasts from the Directorate of Labour suggest that registered unemployment can start to increase in the spring of 1999. The Directorate of Labour believes that we need to be prepared for an increase in the unemployment rate from about 50 000 full-time workers at the end of 1998 to about 70 000 unemployed at the end of next year. From this point of view, the Labour Party considers that the budgetary agreement results in far from the soundness of the appropriations for labour market measures and the labour market set-aside. Until next year, there will be a need for increased appropriations for labour market measures, not less. In its alternative government budget, the Workers’ Party proposes to increase the number of ordinary labour market measures by 4000 compared to the central government’s original draft budget. Following the budgetary conciliation with the right-hand side, the Workers' Party's proposal represents 5,000 more action places than is currently being adopted. Overall, the Labour Party’s proposal provides around 12,000 action sites in 1999. In addition, the Labour Party has proposed a 12 million increase in the operating budget of the labour market budget. kr, which would contribute to more jobs in the building.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1033	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1036	In the 1999 government budget, the government has proposed a district package aimed at reducing the movement of people from the edge to the centre and eventually stopping it. This is one of the Government's most important profile issues. In the past year, the Government has taken several initiatives to improve this situation. First, it provided an opportunity to strengthen an administrative apparatus capable of providing a basis for political commitment. So the government has taken the initiative of a debate to clarify what forces are in motion, and what can be done to change them so that people will bus themselves more in the districts in the future. On his tour of the municipal committee in Troms in the fall, we received many encouraging signals that the local authorities were able to cope with the disembarkation with a certain amount of help from central authorities. All municipalities are in favour of a new offensive, a new awareness among politicians and the population, both on the outskirts and in the centre, in order to achieve a common effort to counter centralisation. I want to give tribute to the Progress Party and the Right to support the Government's district effort in the submitted budget. Here you can see the travel caps in this big reverse operation. More than half a billion dollars will be spent in 1999 to make things right, first of all, so that people can see that they too can have the good life in district municipalities, and second, to help local government and private initiatives to develop well-being and jobs so that district construction is still both possible and desirable. District bet will be a layer bet, with multiple levels of authority depending on each other and a constructive community. It is therefore very important that local, private and public authorities at regional level should be able to cooperate with these state initiatives in order to achieve a result that could provide a better basis for new growth in the districts. They need this after decades of emigration and pessimism. I want to express a strong hope that these money can be the decisive handshake for most people to seriously believe that there is a good and attractive future in District Norway. This will also remedy the pressure problems that we see in many cities, which are easy to express both in terms of living and in terms of increased costs. The Ministry also announces that they will focus on stimulating the development of municipal housing strategies and local action plans. The House Bank shall cooperate with the municipalities to facilitate a good local housing policy in order to improve living conditions and housing conditions. Proposals for development projects for an environmentally friendly housing sector, work on green cities, building practices, housing management and cooperative solutions are also priority tasks. That's why we're going to propose 35 million. 1999 to support the development of the urban environment, housing management and housing policy. The government suggested that the plan period for the elderly be extended from four to six years. This includes, inter alia: given that several municipalities have given positive feedback that this will be appropriate, as they need better time both for thorough planning and proper implementation of the construction projects – not least to provide the professional personnel needed for defence operations. In the Committee's budgetary configuration, it appears that one must support the fact that the municipalities that do not benefit from investment aid for more than four years can receive investment aid for a further two years. This will not result in a delay, and the municipalities that have the plans for development can start next year. When it comes to immigration to Norway, it is particularly important that a time limit be given for the shortest possible procedure, both for the benefit of the asylum seeker and for the integration process for the individual. It is positive that the new receptions established are spread throughout the country. It is important that the reception facilities allow asylum seekers to have an active life by taking care of the most practical tasks and quickly starting language training. It is positive that the Government is changing the law, so that there is nothing to prevent asylum seekers and refugees from being offered work immediately after they have come to the reception. We in the committee propose that this process capacity be increased by 3 million. kr. The budget that is headed has a growth of 1.25 pst. for the municipalities. It is a positive challenge for the municipalities, and we believe that 1999 will be a good year for the municipalities in an exciting interplay with central government powers.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1053	The representative Gedrem now pointed to the positive signals recorded by the committee on its journey in Troms early in the fall. But it was before the centre party rapporteur in Karlsøy, the head of the KS in Troms, so the consequences of the budget, not to mention the consequences of the budgetary agreement with the Right and the Progress Party. The signals that have arrived after that time are probably not as positive. The economy of the municipal sector is one of the most important carriers of decentralised housing and the objective of maintaining the main features of the housing pattern. The Labour Party has therefore proposed, through its alternative state budget, a significant strengthening of the economy of the local government sector. Erna Solberg said in a reply to the chairman of the Committee that the composition of the Labour Party for the local economy is almost as strict as the budgetary agreement. This is obviously wrong. The right-wing rapporteur in Bodø said that the municipality economy of Bodøs was weakened by approx. Six million. kr following the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Right and the Advance Party. The same situation now experiences the rest of Kommune-Norway. Then it becomes strange when the Council of State claims that the changes resulting from the budgetary agreement go to zero. For the Workers' Party, it is also important that there is a reasonable relationship between the earmarked grants and the municipality's free revenues. The Council of State and the Government shall be commended for the regional policy effort made under the regional and regional policies of the draft budget. The problem, however, is that the government parties, through the budgetary agreement with the Right and the Advance Party, have reduced the income of the municipal sector so dramatically that the entry ticket to these district policy funds becomes completely hopeless. I am of those who believe that District Norway – or Municipality-Norway for that matter – has a district and regional minister who understands both the challenges the municipalities face and wants to do something about it. That's why I don't think the government council has a good day today. The budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Right and the Advance Party has reduced the appropriations within our framework area by less than 700 million. kr in relation to the proposal of the Workers' Party. This has made it possible for us in the budgetary position not to see our real priorities, but to see them only in the financial position. As a result, within the considerably smaller framework resulting from the budgetary agreement, the Workers' Party has chosen to give priority to the labour market seat. The vast majority of trade unions believe that next year we will have an increase in unemployment. I guess only the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance have a different view in that way. Recent developments in the labour market also indicate a sharp increase in the number of bankruptcies and an increase in unemployment by 20,000 and upwards. Norwegian Fine Paper in Sarpsborg is just one example of what we can expect. For this reason, the Labour Party in the budgetary position has chosen to make it visible its willingness to invest in measures for the unemployed. This, in turn, has resulted in a relatively sharp reduction in the budgetary framework resulting from the budgetary agreement reducing the appropriations allocated to other areas. I noticed the Council of State's amazement at the Workers' Party's cut-off proposal. Let me therefore repeat that our primary priorities are reflected in the financial position, and that this budgetary position bears the mark of an excessively small framework. We believe that it is important to bet on the big district policy. It is an overall objective to maintain the main features of the housing pattern. However, in order to achieve this objective, the key prerequisite is to facilitate sustainable, profitable and, not least, attractive jobs in District Norway, while safeguarding important welfare services for children, young people, the elderly and the unemployed. It has therefore been far more important for the Workers' Party to provide industry with good and stable framework conditions that make them competitive rather than establishing new individual measures for which we are uncertain about the impact. One of the major challenges we have is the deportation from the districts. Many district municipalities will have a decline in the population even without net relocation. How the Center Party and the Government will meet this challenge by leaving the steering wheel to the Advance Party, is probably more than I wonder. There's still more women than men moving from District Norway. Women are largely employed in the public sector and therefore the challenge will be to create a more varied job offer in the districts, with a focus on private business. That is why the big district policy is so important. Founders' scholarships are a scheme specifically designed for small-scale business start-up in District Norway. Priority shall be given to economically vulnerable areas, women, the unemployed and disabled. It is therefore with amazement that I record the criticism of the Riksrevision directed against the use of these funds.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1074	It is quite entertaining today to hear the representatives of the centre parties when they almost desperately and heroically try to defend the scheme they have come up with. But in a way, it's quite worrying what's now happening. Because if you look at the entire budget – i.e. several committees – together, I would say that the direction this is going on is not good. What is happening now is reducing and building down the universal social systems, that is, the measures that will apply to all of us, all of whom are to be included, for example. the elderly and the school leisure system, which is cut in primary schools, in the labour market and in kindergartens. Thus, the sectors, the services of society that are to be used by everyone are now down-prioritised in the budget, while personalised measures such as cash support, private schools – private solutions at all – are growing and become a focus of the entire budget. That's not good! And on behalf of those of us who talked a little bit to the center parties in the last period, I think I could say that we didn't think they were going to go in this direction. There must have been something that would have made them rotate 180 degrees. I also feel that one has a slightly old-fashioned perception of district policy, that district policy is dripping a little here and a little there – and then one forgets that it is the big district policy that is crucial. It is crucial in a way to bring interest down and facilitate the conditions for businesses and businesses in the districts to go well, and then it is wrong to drop some more or less random business areas around, is what is being put into focus. It's probably a great move, but when it somehow becomes important, I feel that the focus has gone a little wrong. This contrasts with what the Workers' Party is trying to do in its alternative arrangement, where we say that what is important for the districts, among other things. is to obtain education, research and competence in the different regions. We spend the same amount of money getting educational services from colleges and universities decentralised in the regions, as the government spends on these business areas. I think a much better way to run district policy is to make sure that the districts get the skills they need, in order to be able to stand on their own feet. So to the local economy, there's no doubt that the year ahead of us is going to be tight. It would also be tight with the Labour Party's arrangements, there is no doubt about it, but our arrangements for the municipalities are considerably better. And then it's no use that representatives of the settlement parties stand here and say that if we increase by 400 million, or a billion or something like that, it doesn't matter. It is important because there is more money that municipalities can spend on welfare measures for the benefit of their citizens. That's what I think everyone should take inwards. Because nobody thinks that all the rapporteurs who are now saying that this is going to be difficult, we are not doing this, are we just kidding, that they are going to be in a state of hesitation? I do not think anyone would say that when the rapporteurs express disappointment at the proposal. No one thinks that counsellors are unprofessional when they propose to put down 150 schools around the country? They do it because they have to, and because it's tight and difficult. There is no one, either, who believes that municipal politicians from all parties are unprofessional when they now look around to have to propose and adopt budgets that do not balance, which have a deficit. It is important that the government assumes responsibility for the arrangement that they are now taking part in. They go with open eyes into this. The representative Morten Lund had a post here instead, and I asked him some questions that he did not answer – and I expect that he will not answer them whether or not I repeat them. I'll still be allowed to comment on his post with a few sentences. I'm recording that he's not 100 pst. Satisfied with the community structure. I also note to my amazement that his solution is to establish a so-called right of reservation for the municipalities, so that the municipalities should not be able to implement the measures and reforms that come from the centre, because he himself is not able to get enough money when he is in position. He also boasts that he was much better than us in opposition. We got a lightning course on how to operate the opposition, and I understood that the more money an opposition promises, the better it is. I think I can say on behalf of the Workers' Party that in that fight we give ourselves. So we're not going to go into the fight with Morten Lund and the center games from the last period. We just have to realize that there we have to see ourselves turned. The center party was in the last period, and it is still, the unsurpassed Norwegian champions in giving unprofitable promises.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1090	Norway is in the sixth year in a row with strong economic growth. This has led to very positive developments in the labour market: from 1993 to 1998, employment has increased by 235 000 people, and unemployment is almost halved. According to statistics from the Directorate of Labour, 2.1 pst. by the labour force registered as completely unemployed at the end of November. This is the lowest level recorded since July 1998. The result of this development is that the labour market is tighter now than it has been in many years. Many different groups of jobseekers have benefited from this development: long-term unemployment has been reduced in the last few months more than total unemployment, unemployment among immigrants continues to fall, and many people with disabilities have been sent to work in the last year. Unemployment is reduced by about 14 pst. in the last 12 months. If we look at the sum of the unemployed and the action participants, the drop has been a total of 24 pst. during the same period. However, there are some signs that labour demand is decreasing. The Labour Market Act records reduced demand for labour in several industries, including: in construction and in industry. In other parts of the world of work, however, job access remains open. The 1999 national budget assumes that the growth in labour demand will decrease significantly and that the decline in unemployment will stop next year. So far, progress is consistent with this. I am aware that more people expect a different development in 1999 than the Government has planned. In the national budget, the Government underlines the uncertainty associated with future developments. This includes, inter alia: illustrated by sketching the alternative course of development of the economy. I still expect the labour market to be tight, and that there will be labour shortages in many sectors throughout most of the coming year. However, the government will follow developments in the labour market closely. We also have to assume that we are now ahead of a period when normal seasonal variations indicate somewhat higher unemployment. Therefore, some increase in registered unemployment during the next few weeks will not imply a labour market cover. I note that, despite the disagreement on the level of action for next year, there is a significant degree of agreement on many of the main tasks of labour market policy. Labour supply shall be given high priority. The labour market seat shall make it possible to provide employers with the labour they demand. By being active in this area, the department provides the basis for providing work to vulnerable groups. It is also positive that a Joint Municipal Committee concludes on the strong priority of action places for people with disabilities and supports the objective of three-quarters of people with disabilities in action. I believe this is an important and necessary effort to improve the ability of people with disabilities to get into work. The Committee also supports the distortion in the structure of measures proposed by the Government, with growth in work places with assistance, work preparation training and ASVO actions. In particular, an overall committee has proposed increasing the allocations for ASVO measures by 10 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal. As the Committee has proposed a general increase in the fixed rates of ASVO measures, I am prepared to divide the increased funds between increased rates and an increase in the number of places. As a result of the budgetary agreement with the Right and the Advance Party, there is a reduction in the appropriations for labour market measures of 100 million. kr in relation to the Government's original draft budget. The appropriations will thus provide the basis for implementing some 7 000 ordinary action places on average next year. A majority of the municipal committee points out that the measures must be targeted, focus on training and be targeted in particular at the long-term unemployed. These clarifications are in line with the Government’s assessments and priorities. The Labour Party's fraction in the Municipal Committee believes that the level of labour market measures will be too low next year. To this I would say that we will keep up with developments in the labour market. In particular, the Government will review the level of action taken in the context of the work on the revised national budget in 1999. I would also like to point out that experience has shown that, at relatively short notice, the labour market movement is able to adapt its efforts to changing conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1112	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1115	I agree with the Council of State that there has been a very positive development in the labour market for a long time, which has been the result of a totally conscious policy. But now we see that the warning lights are flashing, and the signals from both the Directorate of Labour, the Central Statistical Office and the Bank of Norway — to name a few — suggest that next year's unemployment is most likely to increase. A headline in the newspaper today, based on information from the Directorate of Labour, says that one expects several thousand lay-offs from January. Key companies are asking for legislation on lay-offs, there is little demand for labour, construction, construction and industry. Young, unskilled women and foreigners are particularly vulnerable. In such a situation, therefore, the Government, in cooperation with the Right and the Advance Party, is proposing to cut labour market measures very sharply, which would have to make the most vulnerable groups worse. In the corresponding debate last year, the Council of State Løwer said that she was pleased with the large majority’s commitment to labour market measures, which were significantly higher than the level that will be adopted this year, where the labour market situation is also different. Now the Council of State says that she will follow developments closely and possibly come back to it in the revised national budget. The Minister of Finance contests the clear speech of the figures. And to everything, the representative Morten Lund says here today that the Workers' Party is talking about unemployment. I have to say, I might have expected a little more seriousness from representatives of the government parties, and I have to ask the Council of State: Where does the Government have its figures for the development of the labour market next year, when the Directorate of Labour says that unemployment is likely to increase by over 20,000 people? Is it true that the Government does not trust the Labour Directorate? And can the Council of State show where it is stated in the documents that solitary dependants must be secured and that they should not lose it while inside, as government party representatives said in a reply earlier today?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1124	Many forecast next year's employment growth, possibly an increase in unemployment. It is the Statistical Central Bureau, it is the OECD, it is the Bank of Norway, it is the Directorate of Labour – and there are also assessments in the national budget. Some of the findings of these assessments are the high uncertainty associated with an exact figure, and not least at a time when this vacancy will increase. This uncertainty makes us, as I said in my post, very careful to follow developments, not possibly to come back to the revised national budget, but to come back to the question in the revised. There are very few who say that there will be an increase in unemployment immediately over the New Year. There are usually seasonal fluctuations at this time, and that will of course be expressed. But a general increase in unemployment is no one saying it's coming now. That's why we'll be able to have time to get back to that question. That is how we defend that we can live with the budget negotiated in a conciliation with the Right and the Advance Party. It is the budget that is given the majority in this Chamber, which must apply to politics. For this reason, the level of action on average of 7 000 is now available, which is the starting point for the budget and for labour market policy, but also in the comparison it is expected that we will return to the figure in the revised version. I do not now have time to answer the question of lone dependants. I hope I get a chance to do that later.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1140	First, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that we have an unemployment rate of less than 50 000 people in this country. It's a real low leave. Many of the unemployed are actually just inside a swing door. We have 450,000 people who change jobs every year, and one will always have someone in the employment office waiting to get out again. What I will be allowed to ask the Council of States is ASVO. That's how the committee made an extra 10 million. kr to Chapter 1592, item 72. Now, to the extent that the Council of State had in mind my line, that this amount was to be shared between the expansion of the number of seats and the raising of the rates. But I would have been happy if the Council of State could suggest something more about how the 10 million. kr shall be used by the Ministry. Is the majority going to raise the rates, or is most going to increase the number of places in addition to the 70 places that have already been taken into account? I would like, if possible, to have the Council's view and assessment of exactly that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1147	We've talked about 7 000 action sites earlier today. It is an ordinary place of action. It is with pleasure that I can record that the allocation to the 19,700 job vacancies proposed by the Government has increased by another 10 million. kr. I have understood the Committee's comment there that it has both wanted to raise the rates for the ASVO sites that you have today, and in addition to a few new ones. If I can confirm here that that's the committee's position, I could imagine dividing the amount roughly into two. Now, of course, it also costs something in the administration to create new ASVO sites, so that if you divide by two, that is, by five million, it won't be immediately possible to count as new ASVO sites. kr to increased rates and 5 mill. kr to new places. But that's about where it's acceptable to lie down.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1152	Unlike our previous minority proposals, it really seems that the Blaalid selection's settings should be able to bring together multiple changes. Now it is that not all of us get all premeditated comments for the budget settlement and the setting. I fully understand that the Council of State cannot ignore future hearing responses, and do not signal their depriority in advance. However, I still have a question to the Council of State attached to its size in the future, where a phase-out of responsibilities and tasks is possible. Does the Council of State look forward, with pleasure, to possibly being able to govern a smaller body, where tasks that can be dealt with equally well or better by others are out of the State's hands? We have the hope that a government council from the Left might see the points here, and look forward to resolving them in an even better way if possible. I would like to get a comment from the Council of State on that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1161	The location of the Blaalid Committee is being consulted and will close on 14 December. After New Year's, I will come back to Stortinget with how we politically want to follow it up. The Blaalid Committee takes up the functioning of today's labour market and asks if we have the means to deal with it. In my view, the condition of having a seat on the labour market is that it must remain a size sufficient to enable it to operate in all the areas it operates today and must have a weight. Then we can imagine that it can be supplemented by private communication based on the setting of the Blaalid committee as it now exists, and that there will be changes in rental and rental. I do not imagine that there will be a smaller labour market seat, but a labour market seat more well functioning in being the tool that politicians need in order to have a central labour market policy. That's my preliminary answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1168	SV wants a policy that reduces unemployment even further, and we want to use the labour market seat actively to get it to and to qualify those who are now out of the labour market. And the signals I've received from the Labour Directorate are that if they get more room, they can offer the qualification and training of the groups that are now out of the labour market, so they can get in. It would be a huge advantage for the individual and a huge advantage for society, who needs skilled labour. That's the most important resource we have. What we know about narrowing down policies like the Government is now leading – and what we are absolutely sure of – is that unemployment increases when you tighten up so much. There is a lot of uncertainty about whether it affects interest at all. Therefore, it will be very difficult to understand the Government's argument that unemployment will not increase to next year. So I have to ask the Council of State again directly: is it that the Council of State does not support the signals that the Directorate of Labour has now given, that unemployment is actually going to increase? It must be important for us to know. I would also like to give the Council of State an opportunity to answer the question that was put to them, in relation to the lonely caregivers. Furthermore, I hope that the Council of State may have time to say a little about first getting the level of action down and getting the labour market seat to plan after that, possibly cutting down the measures and course that are in progress, and then taking it up again in June if it turns out that the unemployment rate is increasing dramatically. Would it not have been better to go to a level that is roughly in line with what we can expect from such a tighter budget as the Government has actually committed itself to, so that the labour market seat can offer courses of qualification adapted to those now outside the labour market? Many of them need more than a few weeks of course.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1177	Let me take the lonely caregivers first, so I don't have to pay for it too. The Directorate of Labour has not provided information on changes in how to deal with single dependants. It could have been heard on the post from Sylvia Brustad that the Directorate of Labour had now changed its follow-up and signals to lone-parents. Lone dependants shall be provided with assistance on the basis of individual needs and labour market opportunities. This shall take place and take place in cooperation with the State of the labour market and the State of the social security system and shall be followed up in the same way as other unemployed persons. This means that some people will be able to interrupt their arrangements if they are to be provided with a job, and some may also want and need more education than the modules that the labour market seat can offer. Then there are no labour market measures that are right for these people. In fact, for many of the unemployed we now see, labour market measures alone are not enough to qualify them up to the level and areas where there is demand for labour. In this context, the forthcoming skills reform is crucial for how we will be able to use the labour force we now have in the future. And even though we see fluctuations in the labour market, perhaps over the years, the underlying undercovering of labour in Norway is. In fact, the major challenge we face in Norway is to provide labour for the jobs that we will cover in the future. But there is an imbalance between the unemployed and those who are asked for in the labour market. Therefore, qualification, training and skills enhancement are crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1186	If this government receives what it wants, it will be decided today to halve the labour market measures to an average of 7,000 action places next year. The Labour Party believes that this is irresponsible policy. Many actors, including the State Council’s own office, the labour market seat, believe that the level of action is becoming too low. Yet later this government as if this were just empty threats that they would not listen to, and it is alarming, but not unusual from this government, which is constantly in decline. Although we do not get any increase beyond today's level, which everyone of course hopes, but which we in the Labour Party do not believe in, I want to hear how the Minister of Labour and Administration will resolve the need for the many unemployed. We have as we know 50,000 unemployed today, and in addition we have 8 000 who were on the move at the end of October. And not enough with that, we have 2,300 unemployed under 20 years of age who have a guarantee, and now the Council of State promises that single dependants will also receive a guarantee. Furthermore, we have almost 5,000 that goes out of 81 weeks and more, and they have a guarantee – to some extent at least. And then we end up with a number where there's a couple of hundred places left for the group of 20-24 years, which alone is 7,000, immigrants and refugees that we know have high unemployment rates, and older workers. Then I have to ask the Minister of Labour and Administration: which of these groups I have now mentioned will not be offered any action? Which of these groups will the Council of State downgrade? And is it that one can get the impression that the Council of State has no special readiness to meet a challenge of greatly increasing unemployment to next year, as well as to come back to revision? Isn't that a little too passive?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1194	I have tried to pass on the assessments made by many teams regarding labour market developments. What goes on is the big uncertainty about what it can become. And then it's a little difficult to relate to an absolute description that there's going to be a lot of leave and that it's going to be 20,000-30,000, depending on what you want to focus on. The Directorate of Labour has indicated that there may be 20,000 at the end of the year. But even it's obsessed with question marks and uncertainty. Therefore, the level of intervention is a focus we need to follow. I would like to think of a lot more action areas, I! But what we have to live with is the budget that has a majority in this room, and there are now 7,000 ordinary action spaces, plus that we come back if development should come faster and to a greater extent than it looks now. Otherwise, the measures adopted will be directed towards the groups which the majority or the Committee as a whole have expressed in their comments that they will give priority and are in line with the Government's assessments of the priorities. This will be further reflected in the 1999 Labour Directorate's letter of assignment, which means that we take special care of young people, foreigners, those who find it most difficult to get into the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1203	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1206	In the 1997 election campaign, the Centre Party promised SEK 3.5 billion more to the municipal sector. They didn't get that. Local authorities have not been compensated for the wage and pension costs, not for the increase in interest rates, nor for the extended employer’s period for sick pay. In reality, this is a budget that reduces the income of municipalities, once again a clear break in promise from the central government. After a year of central government, the situation is in many ways influenced by a government that does not have economic governance. It seems to me that they are more concerned about prioritising the three different parties to their brands than they are about pursuing a holistic policy. We see today an ever-increasing public poverty in Norway, where the everyday lives of very many people have been more difficult. Important welfare tasks such as the strengthening of health services and the strengthening of schools and research have gained an increasingly smaller share of resources than before. The state’s support for running kindergartens has fallen monthly, and with a kindergarten expansion of about 2,500 new places for the next year, one will never be able to reach the plan for full kindergarten development by 2000. It seems that kindergarten expansion should be reduced in order for the Christian People's Party to have room for its heart issue no. 1, cash support. The consequences in the municipal sector when they now have to reduce their budgets are that the supply of older people becomes weaker. In particular, this will affect home-based care and the supply of psychiatric patients around the municipalities, which we know is very labour-intensive. The parental reform will be postponed by two years, and there will be 2 100 fewer sick homes in 1999. This applies to the weakest groups, which we know need a lot of care and care. Likewise, when the school leave scheme is reduced by 125 million. In the budget agreement, municipalities will have to take higher ownership from parents in order to have their children in the school leisure arrangements. The sum of what these five parties have been agreed on in the context of the municipal proposal is a far worse offer in relation to the Community solutions, and it is the local authority sector that is being favoured. It is also becoming more difficult for municipal politicians when they now have to cut down on important welfare benefits, such as health and education. In 1998, the municipal sector experienced a monthly increase in costs. There is an increase in labour costs and an increase in pension expenditure, and that is the increase in interest rates. The working party's proposal for an alternative state budget means that we collect a set of approximately DKK 1 billion more for the municipal sector in the form of increased transfers and reduced costs than is in the budgetary agreement between the centre party and the right. This would improve the ability of the municipal sector to ensure good care for the elderly, kindergartens and schools. When it comes to the efforts made by the Labour Party within the public sector in recent years, this argument is often used from the right of Norwegian policy – we have heard that today – that the public sector in Norway is too large and that it is the public sector that is choking the growth forces of the private sector. This is completely wrong. We know that much of our income is, among other things, transfers to private persons and payments made by people. I agree with the fact that it is important that the public sector is effective, and that people know that the public sector provides social security and a good supply to the individual. But there is no contradiction between an efficient and strong public sector and the desire to generate growth in the private sector. A good education system, public investment in research and development and public investment in profitable road and rail projects will strengthen our entire society, as well as boosting the competitiveness of business. Similarly, a well-developed health care system and housing funding make most people get a good and reasonable housing, helping to increase the security of the individual. I also think it'll make the individual person make an extra effort. A strong public sector and a fair tax system are also a clear commitment to pursue a fair distribution policy. I heard a right-wing representative here in the debate say that we have enough room for manoeuvre in the public sector. I'm of the opposite opinion, I think we need more health care settings in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1221	That's about. a year ago we discussed the first budget that the new government was supposed to have adopted in Stortinget. At that time, it was said that all the breaches of the promises that were in that budget came a lot because the government had taken over a budget that the Workers' Party had submitted and that they were only allowed to do, but to the next year – that is, in the autumn – we were to see what was the central policy. In the fall, it was really supposed to look what the center was prioritizing, and we've seen that. We have been confirmed that the transfers in the municipal sector, as in all other sectors, have not been followed up. I think it was quite clarifying the post that the representative Morten Lund made here today, where he actually criticized the Workers' Party for not overcoming when they are in opposition, for it should be a tough party. It was quite clarifying how the Center Party looks at its opposition role, and a clear admission of why it has gone as it has been in the Government. Now it is even such that the Government does not follow up adopted reforms, and it is serious, more serious than not following up all of its own promises. The parental reform was unanimously adopted by the Stortinget. The postponement that is now taking place, i.e. a reduction of 2,100 places to the next year, as the government claims to have better time for the municipalities, is completely unnecessary, because everything in the proposition and in the setting from 1997 it is clear that if some municipalities need longer time, they should get it. That's not what the government promises. What the government is proposing is to decide that we should slow down. That's what's happening, and there's no reason to try to make it any other way. Then the Labour Party gets bullied because one year ago we talked a lot about the risk of increasing money consumption, using more of the oil money. What we said last year was that if we make ourselves more dependent on oil money, we risk having problems, among other things. with the level of interest if the oil price falls. When we said it last year, it was described as pure terror propaganda, but now we see that it was the result of the government's policy. And then it's pretty daunting to hear the Minister of Labour take as easily as she does, on the many signals that now come about that we can face a trend towards increased unemployment, because the government is now saying the same thing that the Minister of Finance did in the financial speech: No, it's probably going well! Despite warnings from the Labour Market Act, from the Statistical Central Bureau and from other heavy trade unions, the Government chooses to ignore the possibility of increasing unemployment to the next year, and it does so in a situation where the labour market is at the highest interest rate in Europe, in the country that should have had the best starting point of all European countries to have a stable low interest rate. So our business has special challenges, and we're starting to notice it in the construction industry, where it's ordered less than it's been in the last few years. We also notice it within the shipyards, which is an important district industry along the whole coast, and we know how it works if it starts to rake in those industries first. Then it spreads to the rest of the business. But instead of grasping that situation, the government's response is to reduce labour market measures, the means we have to help those who have problems in the labour market to change. Having the opportunity to get people into work is, in fact, the most important distributive action we can have here in the country. We get the big difference between those who don't have a job and those who have a job, and now we see the possibility that young people, immigrants and other disadvantaged people in the labour market get a worse offer. One year ago, the Minister of Labour and Administration stood here and told me how important it was that the Stortinget followed up the labour market measures. It was important that we got 17,500 places. It was in a situation where it seemed to be increasing employment and less unemployment. Now we're in a situation where we seem to be at risk of increased unemployment, and the Government – the value-government, which it chooses to present itself as – performs to reduce the measures to 8 000. It's the jam a value-regoverning!
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1232	In this budget setting, the Government shows its true face. The right-wing centre option turns its back on both the municipality of Norway and the unemployed. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party state that the reconciliation between the government parties, the Progress Party and the Right means a further deterioration of the local economy, a unilateral contraction in the public sector and an increase in taxes on sickness and municipal services. The agreement also means structural changes that will lead to more unsafe jobs, more privatisation and greater economic and social differences. What's next, that the whole of Velferds-Norway is being offered for so-called competitive exposure, that the budget-mates from the right-wing parties are getting full penetration to privatize what's left? We have already seen the impact of the Right and the Advance Party in this year's budgetary settlement. There are many municipal politicians who are – and have good reasons to be – worried about the lack of backbone of this government. In the past, we have heard of politicians who are so thick-skinned that they are upright without a spine. Now we have an entire government that can, and that does. The Labour Market Act has made a formidable effort to get back to work in recent years. It has done well to do the job when politicians have been willing to use the necessary resources. The Bondevik Government shows through the budgetary agreement that this is no longer a priority area. At the same time as the signals are moving towards a new increase in unemployment, the Government chooses to cut dramatically at the level of action. The government gambles with some of the most important things in people's lives, the ability to manage itself through paid work. In reality, the reduction in the level of action involves a downsizing of labour market policies. The country’s main instrument in the fight against unemployment has now been reduced to a symbolic level. The unemployment rate next year will most likely rise to the same level as in 1997 and possibly more. On average, more than 24000 persons went on ordinary measures that year. For 1999, the level proposed is 7 000. This level represents more than a halve from 1998. These are clear figures and clear evidence of a lack of willingness to take the unemployed seriously. We know, as others have also said, that those who will be worst hit are long-term unemployed, young people, single mothers and immigrants. Labour market measures are also important so that unemployed people can be qualified to take jobs where there is a shortage of skilled labour. This is obviously not the government's policy anymore. It would have been a good idea to create a contingency plan that can be implemented at a new increase in the availability. The government already knows the signals in the market, and I believe that it is both irresponsible and immoral not to take these signals seriously. Planning takes time, while it has been shown that leave can increase very quickly. Over a number of years, we have had to hear the current government parties, especially the Central Party, darken our country. It was black all over the country – in every corner – when the Workers' Party had the government power. Of course, we got blamed for everything. Now the Center Party, which they said would reduce the differences between people, has really laid a foundation that will increase the differences among people. Unlike the Workers' Party, they do anything to cling to the government taboos. That's what Kommune-Norge's got to do. The worst thing I think is the message the unemployed get from the government: that they are redundant and completely innocent are used as pieces in a cynical game of government power.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1251	The budget we are discussing today concerns the districts and the individual. When the municipalities have to save, we all know that there will be consequences for the inhabitants. We also know that the most difficult are those who are hit hardest by the government's economic policy. The high interest rate, with which the government has no power to do anything, obviously hits them hardest with high mortgages and student loans – the young families, the families of children, which the government is talking so much about in theory. Every year, the Labour Party has put a fair distribution on the political agenda. It is sad that the Government did not realise that the National Assembly of the Workers' Party as a whole was concerned with fair distribution. The centre party should have noticed it more than being so busy sitting in government that they cheerfully renounced everything they said before the election, and instead threw themselves around the neck of the Progress Party. Equal opportunities, social protection and solidarity of funding are the pillars of our welfare state. I actually thought the government agreed. Some of us remember very well all the additions the Senterpartiet proposed in the budget for 1997 – the election year. Morten Lund had a lot of fissures and told everyone that the center party had more money for the municipalities. Then there was black in District Norway. Where has Morten Lund been in the harvest? Now the Central Party has pushed the Advance Party to its breast and reduces the Ministry of Local Affairs budget by 373 million. kr. No wonder it's been quiet by some people in the Center Party. For whom is the government taking the money from? Yes, among others. the elderly. The lightning is out in the blue – not to say dark blue. But not only that, we can now read in the newspapers that Kommune-Norway reduces the cash support for those who receive social assistance and who have it difficult from before. This is heartbroken. Lonely caregivers are hit and thus the children. Is it really the government's opinion that there should be witch hunts on weak groups? In that case, I understand very well why a value commission is reduced. All this happens so that those who can afford to be at home with the kids will receive cash support. The Labour Party has been committed to the line of work and training. It's about the welfare of the individual. Work for all is the most basic issue of distribution. Those who for various reasons do not have work are entitled to use their skills and to make an effort with others. In order to give all that opportunity, the community must make an active contribution. But what does the Government do? Indeed, they reduce labour market measures, which should help those who are at a disadvantage in the labour market: young people and older workers. Long-term sick and disabled people with long-term and chronic disorders who can still do a job adapted to their residual working capacity need additional assistance from the staff of the labour market establishment. But what does the Government do to take the Advance Party? Well, they're reducing the number of staff in the department where they're really qualified to deal with just this group of people who depend on good help. I have not criticized Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad in my post. I think she's having a hard time today. But as we say in Hedmark, "It costs to be a guy." And the collaboration with the Progress Party is probably costing it so far into the centre party. Everyone remembers what Anne Enger Lahnstein said before the election: now there's enough right-wing politics. Ah, yes, 'it was then and it was now'. I don't feel sorry for the government. My concern goes to those affected by the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1266	Because it's been mentioned one thing that I said here about what we did in opposition, I'm just going to come back to it a little bit. I have not said that a party in the opposition should permanently overcome the local government sector, and that is the recipe for an opposition party. What I've said is that there must be consistency between what is said and what one does. We justified our proposals on additions to the municipal sector every year during the previous period that the tasks had increased from the previous year, that prices had increased, and that the tasks had become heavier in the individual municipality by, for example, doing so. had become more young in the kindergarten, and that the older ones had become more. That's the number we got from the Municipality's Central Association. That was the basis for our proposals. We had proposals for a further 1-2-3 billion kroner each year. And then the evolution showed the year after year that we got it right. The municipalities got more money, not because of the Storting's decision, but because of increased tax access, and the money was used. What in the world would it have looked like today if the money hadn't come? The municipality that was given over the four-five years was exactly the same – almost at the crown – as the Centerpartie suggested, with the exception of 1997. Then it was the Stortinget that made the decision, and then a further 6-7 billion kroner was adopted for the municipalities. They've also used them. It matters what it looks like today. I think it would have looked worse if they hadn't got this money. So during these years the municipality got approx. Plus $20 billion in taxes. It is clear that the picture would have looked different in some municipalities if the money had come in the form of framework transfers. Because it was the wealthier municipalities that got the most of the money. I believe that an important reason why so many people are struggling as much as they are today is that there was no consensus in the Storting that the needs were there in the municipal sector. Today I feel that the Workers' Party uses the same words as we used in the previous period, but they do not follow up with money. They did the same in spring in connection with the revised national budget. Then it was said that the problems are giant, we're going to do something to solve them. But all they did was say to the department that you'll see if you can find a solution within what's already been granted. And it has proved not to be that much.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1279	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 869]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1293	I will not keep any post, but only correct an incursion in the setting on page 2 at the top of the second column, where the Working Party has a note. There's just the first sentence to include. The remainder shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1300	It shall be deleted from ‘Twist...’?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1303	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1308	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 880]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1316	Then we should be ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1322	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Sylvia Brustad on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 2, by Sylvia Brustad, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, 3 and 4, by Lodve Solholm on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 5, by Lodve Solholm on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 6-8, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First, there is a vote on the framework areas and then on the minority proposals. Then we'll take the explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1345	I urge the SV Group to vote against the proposals both from the Labour Party and from the majority under Framework Area 6, but for the stand-alone Roma figures that are outside the framework, and for the vote's proposals under Framework Area 7.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1350	Because of the answer given by the government council to Erna Solberg in a line change earlier today, the Progress Party and the Right will make proposal No. 3 to a transmission proposal. – just so it'll be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e1355	We shall begin voting with proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I. The 1999 budget provides for: Chapter.PostDestinationCronesCronesExpenditure500Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5312 and 5615)]] Income3520Directorate of Foreign Affairs [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2412)]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e4783	The vote will then be taken on the proposal for a decision in the case of stand-alone proposals under Framework Box 6.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e4808	The President then goes back to the remaining minority proposals, and first takes the proposals No. 6 – 8, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider raising the age limit for the integration grant for lone minor asylum seekers to 23 years in line with the rules of the Child Protection Act.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the inclusion of several of the regional policy instruments in the allocation frameworks available to municipalities and counties according to agreed plans and local needs.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a regional policy strategy for the Labour Market Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e4832	We shall then vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to allocate funds on top. Item 521 73 Aid to nationwide organisations only to member-based organisations.»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e4848	Proposal No. 3, by the Party of Progress and the Right, has been converted into a transmission proposal and the introduction of the proposal is amended accordingly. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit to the State Budget for the year 2000 an assessment of various reception organisations including the Swedish model where asylum seekers also live in private homes.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government in its corrected form without any responsibilities. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to reduce the number of annual jobs in the Labour Market Act by 10 p.m. by the year 2000.’»
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e4871	Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government, within the given powers of attorney, to maintain open offers and to ensure the provision of services to lone dependants in need of training and action, as provided for by the Welfare Communication.The Government asks the Government, in the context of the Revised National Budget, to make proposals for the allocation and necessary guidelines or legal framework to ensure such offers.’
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e4886	The vote on the proposal for a decision to be taken on the Framework Section 7 will then be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e5428	Here it's going to be written mailly, and it's going to be voted first over items 01 and 45 under chapters. 520.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e5437	It is then votered over heading 21 under the heading. 520, and here the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e5447	It's going over the hood. 521 heading 71.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e5455	So we've come to battle. 521 heading 72 and cap. 551. Here the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e5734	Here the Progress Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-12-08.ana.ud1721e5841	Then we would have finished voting in case No. 1 and 2. The scheduled time for the morning meeting is late. New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 6:00 p.m.
