ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e45	Ot. pp. No 59 for 1997-98 contains 14 proposals for amendments to the Law on Population Security and in some other laws. Most of the proposals concern minor administrative simplifications, regulatory adjustments and technical adaptations. With regard to the concrete proposals for legislative changes and comments on them, I would refer to the Committee's position. The Committee, in consultation with the Ministry, states that the proposals relating to the extension of the employer's period in relation to the worker's illness are not being dealt with at this stage. In the Government's 1999 draft government budget, a proposal to extend the employer's period by one week is well known. In Ot.prp. No 4 for 1998-99, the proposal for a law is promoted which takes account of the latest extension of the period of employment. The majority of the Committee supports No one's proposals for legislative changes in the other 13 proposals. In addition, there has been an amendment from the Right to the third paragraph of Section 21-9 of the Social Security Act. This proposal is a clarification of the intention of the proposal in the proposal, and the members of the Committee from the Christian People's Party and the Central Party support this. Moreover, I would like to comment here in particular on three of the proposals in which the Committee does not unanimously support the proposals contained in the proposal. The government proposes changes to the provisions on the amount of the basic pension, so that cohabiting pensioners who have lived together for 12 out of the last 18 months receive the same basic pension as spouses also when one or both cohabitants receive a pension or transitional benefit as surviving spouse. This amendment will also apply to the basic pension for family care. The majority of the Committee considers it necessary to make this amendment to the law in order to equate the rules for reducing the basic amount of those cohabitants with the rules for reducing the basic amount applicable to other couples and cohabitants. At the same time, I would like to point out the strength of the part that left behind who became a cohabitant, by keeping their survivor's pension, while the person who remarried loses the right to a survivor's pension. The second point on which it is referred to in the Committee concerns the proposal for amendments to the provisions of the Law on Civil Protection relating to the obligation of professional secrecy. The government suggests that lone dependants who are user contacts, i.e. the follow-up manager of lone dependants shall be provided with the name and address of single dependants in his or her district. Since 1992, the social security system has run follow-up projects for single dependants. The user contacts are even lonely dependants. They act as a link between the individual lone dependant and the public services, and are key actors in activating, motivating and creating a social network of single dependants. The majority of the Committee supports the proposal for amendments to the rules on professional secrecy in order to enable these user contacts to be made available to single dependants in their territory. In this way direct contact can be made. However, the same majority emphasises the confidentiality of user contacts and the voluntary nature of the sole provider. The majority disagree with the comments of the Advance Party that no single dependant should be sought for public assistance. On the contrary, the majority see it as very important that single dependants who have a passive life are motivated to work and education. The third amendment proposal, which is the one in the Committee, concerns the amendment of the provision on child allowances for pensioners who are eligible to be paid to the Centre for the Collection of the Social Security Agency if requested by the Central Bank. The majority of the Committee would point out that the child supplement should not be a general increase in social security benefits for own use or a remuneration for having a relationship with the child. The child supplement shall be provided to the day-to-day care provider. It can also be noted that until 1994, the child supplement went directly to the caregiver. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e64	Now, when I take the floor for a position that is largely unanimous, it is to address the proposal that has been distributed. I am very sorry that the proposal has not been included in the vote, but it is not always clear as soon as you should be aware of it. In this respect, the third paragraph of Paragraph 21-9 of the People's Security Act, which provides for the provision of assistance through user contacts and follow-up managers, such as the case rapporteur, to the benefit of passive social security and to the benefit of work or education, is to be added. The background for this was that when the Storting treated the welfare message in the previous period, a unanimous committee expressed its wish to help lonely caregivers who have their main source of income from popular fear, to get out of, as I said, the passive and institutive social security. We had seen projects in several states that showed that this was a positive scheme, which of course is based on volunteering both from the lonely caregivers who are such contacts, and the lonely caregivers who are to be helped out of a passive social security life. It has produced very good results, and that's why you want to go on with it and make it a nationwide system. However, it is important to stress that this is a traditional way, that the public engages in voluntary contact with beneficiaries, and I think it is important that the scheme be continuously evaluated so that we ensure that the obligation of professional secrecy is not eroded and that there is also a voluntary nature of the lone carers affected. So what I am referring to here is not a change in reality in relation to what is proposed by the Government, but a clarification: the lone carers who are to be visited here are those who receive transitional benefits. It's for them it can be problematic to get out of a passive social security life, and that's who we want to make with this decision. That's why it's a clarification -- it's not just any lone parent, but lonely dependants who receive transitional benefits. I am therefore addressing the proposal and hope it can be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e75	The representative Annelise Höegh has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e78	The attitude of the social committee is essentially unanimous, but at one point SV has a committee comment that I want to elaborate. On the basis of the bill, there will be an adjustment between the cohabitants and the couples with regard to the fifth paragraph of Section 3-2, and SV disagrees with the adjustment that is taking place. In reality, there is a downward adjustment of the pensions of cohabitants to the level of cohabitation of pensions, while SV wants to go the opposite way, i.e. to adjust to the level of cohabitation with the objective of having their pension rights without coordination between spouses. We will therefore vote against Section 3-2, fifth paragraph. So until the clarification that Annelise Höegh came up here regarding the third paragraph of Section 21-9, where it has been included in the text ‘receiving transitional benefits’ in addition to what was originally stated there. That's a pretty straightforward clarification for SV, and we agree that it takes place.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e85	The proposal under consideration today is mainly subject to technical adjustments in the law on social security. The aim is that the content of the rules should be clearer by law and make the arrangements easier to manage. Continuous work on updating and simplifying the legislation is an important part of the work on making people's rights more accessible to most people. However, the proposition has some proposals which are more principleal and which act on the rights of the individual. The most important changes are already mentioned. First, there is a clear indication in the laws on how to calculate days of self-declaration for workers with work sessions that go over a 24-hour separation. An absence which passes a 24 hour separation should be considered to be a self-notification date. It is an important burden for people who have changed jobs. It also includes absences due to children or child care in case of illness. Then there's a clear rule in the law that civil servants on missions abroad are to be part of the public interest. There is an follow-up to St.meld. No 22 for 1995-96, where it was opened to take up civil service abroad. Pensioners with a pension as a surviving spouse shall have a reduced basic pension if they enter a stable partnership, i.e. that they get the same pension as if they had married. All the proposals in the proposal have been supported by a majority of the Social Committee. I interpret it as a signal that it is undesirable to continue working to make the law simpler and better. We can't settle for the fact that the job was done with the promises of popular peace from May 1, 1997. I would like to further simplify the rules, and I would like to highlight the Rikstrygdewerk's feedback channel for their addition. I have asked the Rikstrøgdeverket to sort these feedbacks and, for the first time, to suggest five points for improvements and simplifications for quick follow-up from the Government. But I would also like to stress that today there are well-developed complaints in the social security system through the social security offices and the administrative ‘judgment’ for social security, social security. This year, following a massive effort to improve efficiency and review the treatment process, social security rights have come down to a very short average duration of treatment. This means that this instance has become a much more real complaint body for the users. The future of public security can only be secured through closer contact with users and understandable and fair regulation and use of rules. It's my opinion, having followed the social security system a little bit more on the inside of the last year, that there's a good ability to catch signals from users at a time when some of us are getting more demanding in meeting with those who provide us with services. The budget lies primarily in the state in the development of so-called customer guarantees, the service statements. Nord-Trøndelag County Strygdekontoret has received several prizes for its bet. The rest of the social security fund is about to follow. Yesterday, Hedmark and East-Agder were declared to be a service state, and during the year 2000 all counties should have such declarations. Finally, let me say when it comes to Right's proposal, that a user contact should only be able to get information about a single provider within a defined geographical area. It is a premise that those who are single to the sympathizers in question receive transitional or child care benefits from the social security system. It is only in these cases that the social security offices have information. User contact has obligations to do so. I see Right's proposal as a clarification of the intention that the amendment is intended to last, and I have no objection to the adoption of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e111	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 11]]
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e125	The proposal to repeal the Education Act and instead to introduce a separate chapter on teacher training in the Law on Higher Education is the result of a thorough and, in addition, long-term process between government and corruption. The Ministry's proposal, as set out in Ot.prp. No 77 for 1997-98 is therefore a follow-up to previous decisions taken in the Storting. The proposal outlines the repeal of today's teacher training law and the inclusion in a separate chapter of the Law on Higher Education of provisions aimed at ensuring common objectives, content and organisation of teacher training. Only the specific features of teacher training are to be covered by this new chapter. A new third paragraph of the Law on Exam and State Grants to Private Higher Education § 9 proposes a basis for the King to provide for private teacher training to be covered in whole or in part by the new provisions. There is a tradition in Norway that teacher training has a special role in legislation as well. The school is one of the foundations of society — the educational provision we provide for future generations, and an orderly and proper teacher training has an all-embracing impact on society both in the short and longer term. It is in such a perspective the teaching profession has a particularly important role. Proposals for amendments under consideration by the Inst. O. No 4 is primarily a coordination of the law. The specific requirements for teacher training which have so far been met by the Law on teacher training are continued in the new chapter of the Law on Higher Education and through framework plans, in addition to the provisions already contained in the Law on Training. There is broad support in the Committee for the changes proposed in the proposal. It has been important for the Committee to stress the importance of schemes to ensure the recruitment of teachers from linguistic minorities and teachers with a foreign background to the Norwegian school. With regard to the student fitness assessment scheme, the Committee stresses that this must be done with caution in order to ensure the legal certainty of students. The proposal also promotes a proposal to amend the Law on Higher Education, which deals with a completely different issue than teacher education, namely the question of who should be eligible as Vice-Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor at departments of higher education schools. The Committee supports the Ministry's proposal that annual targets should also be made available at higher education institutions, and considers this to be a strength for the internal democracy of schools. On a few points, it is the same in the committee. A smaller number in the Committee, the members of the Progress Party, emphasises that Norwegian knowledge at a high level must be a requirement for all teachers. This note is related to a statement that the Ministry considers somewhat reduced requirements for teachers from linguistic minorities and with a foreign background. Furthermore, the members of the Right-wing Committee wish to remove the general teaching competence and, instead, wish to see a greater differentiation in teacher training, so as to align their competences with that of the child, the middle and the youth respectively. The right-wing members also propose that teachers who teach the theory of youth should have at least one year of professional immersion in the subject. Despite the disagreement in some points in the Committee, I am nevertheless convinced that the changes that are now being adopted are changes that coordinate and take care of the specific arrangements that the Committee as a whole considers should apply to teacher training, and I would therefore like to end by recommending the Committee's suspension and reference to the comments made there.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e146	It is true, as the rapporteur's deputy said, that there is a broad consensus in the committee on the formal aspect of this legislative work. It is also true that the proposal that has been submitted is a response to an order from Stortinget, and so on, all have reason to be satisfied. All the hearing bodies involved have also expressed their agreement that the former independent law on teacher education is being replaced by a legal chapter incorporated into the new law on higher education. So far, the matter is curative. What is important to emphasise when this reform is being implemented is that, on the one hand, legal work does not detract from the importance of teacher training. It would otherwise be a possible interpretation, when you take away a law of your own that has a long tradition and long claim to regulate training specifically, that it means that you attach less relative weight to teacher training than before. There is no basis for that interpretation. When the Right in connection with this case has made two proposals which involve a professional upgrade of the qualification requirements for teachers in Norwegian school, it is precisely because we consider it so that in the current situation there are a lot of serious reasons to do just that. We are in a situation where the recruitment of the teaching profession is problematic. The size has had an interpellation debate on this recently when it became quite clear that we are struggling with problems. These problems are both of a quantitative nature, the number of stakeholders who wish to sign up for teacher training, and of a qualitative nature, the professional prerequisites of those who are applying for teacher training. It is worrying that higher education in today's Norway is in a situation that will last some years in the future, where the teachers who fall below the age limit and leave the school have on average a higher level of professional qualifications than the young teachers who enter the school. It's a cross of thought. It is also a cross of thought for me that in recent years we have expanded the compulsory primary school, so that today it covers a whole ten years starting at six years of age, without having taken the necessary consequences of this expansion. We still practice, as one of the very few European countries, a system in which a general teacher's competence gives access to teaching in all subjects at all levels of a ten-year schooling. I think this is an anachronism, and that's why we found it right from the right to link this matter to the two proposals in the committee position. The essence of proposal No. 1 is to replace the undifferentiated principle from class 1 to class 10 in terms of the right to teach with a differentiated principle which sets different professional requirements for the stage, the middle and the youth respectively. The second proposal is at least as important at my discretion. It is not enough in basic subjects, such as mathematics or, for that matter, Norwegian, to make the current requirement of general teacher education, namely, a ten-weight depression to teach at the upper level of primary school. It is Right's proof that these two reforms are overdue if we really want to strengthen teacher training, and if we really want to enable the school to meet the demands of the future on professional quality. With this, I will address the two proposals that have been put forward by the right in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e161	The representative of Inge Wohnung has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e166	The two proposals that have been put forward by the Right may well in many ways give the label greater professional depression and greater professional demands for teachers. Being concerned with the content, the professionalism, and highlighting the importance of the subjects, the Left sees as a good and important errand, which in some context we feel can be underestimated. But the question that I think it is close to asking on the basis of these two proposals is whether the Right has thought through the question of whether these proposals, if they are adopted, would have consequences for the school structure in Norway. With as many small kindergartens as we have, including many untrained schools, schools with both childhood and childhood, which are relatively small, is it possible to imagine that this school structure could continue if the professional requirements of the proposal from the Right were made?
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e171	I am pleased to note that the representative Hove expressed his principal support for the idea of lifting the professional qualifications to teach in Norwegian school. To the questions of Hoves I will draw his attention to the wording of the Right proposal. Both proposals 'began the Government to propose...' I assume that, like me, the representative Hove has a fairly high level of confidence in this government, and also trust that the Government is able to see the practical adaptation problems that we all know lie there. It is clear that in small, out-of-date schools it will be very difficult to implement such a general rule as this. I'm quite clear about that, but I have full confidence that the Council of State and the Government will be able to take account of it and, if this is to get a majority in the Stortinge, come back with a sensible proposal to adapt it to the school's terrain.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e178	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e181	This matter concerns something as important as the technical content of communication throughout the Norwegian school. That's what we're communicating to approx. 550 000 Norwegian children at all times. That is why I have an infinite sympathy for the two proposals on the Right. But what is at least equally important in this context is precisely the ministry's insofar as noble thoughts about other, more flexible schemes for students from linguistic minorities without diplomas from exams in secondary school, or students who do not have diplomas from Norwegian high school. These people who don't have a midterm exam from Norwegian school, I guess I don't see the big danger, because they have what they've chosen, as their main goal, and they have to be able to do it up to a reasonably high level. However, if we are to train teachers who do not have diplomas from Norwegian schools and give them general teacher competence, i.e. the right to teach – or rather the ability to be instructed by the principal to teach in all disciplines – without being able to Norwegian at a sufficiently high level, then I am very concerned. But I am glad that the department has not proposed this in the form of law. General teachers are a tradition of the child. General school teachers as a type make schooling rational for school owners. But in spite of that, I would already say that the Progress Party is of the same opinion as the Right in this, that when the children come up to the secondary school class, higher professional content is also expected in education. The annual leap is big – from six-year-olds to 16-year-olds – and we will therefore support Højre’s proposal No. 2, which goes on education and immersion for those who teach theory at the upper secondary school. Unfortunately, we cannot support proposal No. 1, as this will result in relatively large recalibrations throughout the Norwegian school system. But we hope we can come back to that and discuss it another time.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e190	This is partly a technical adjustment, as one shifts parts of the Law on Teacher Education into the Law on Universities and Higher Education, and one omits part of today's Law on Teacher Education, which one does not include in the Law on Higher Education. I agree with Inge Wohnning that when teacher training is given a separate chapter in the new law, we promote teacher training as an important part of our higher education system. I still think we should take care of that and underline it. With regard to the two suggestions from the Right, I want to comment on them. First, to proposal No. 1, which is aimed at differentiating the last two years of teacher training towards childhood, middle and youth. In fact, this is the situation today in many ways, because today's teacher training has been set up in such a way that one in the last year will choose a rather extensive professional depression. The same is true for the second last year, even though the depression is not as deep as it should be the last year. So there are different possibilities, and you can combine different subjects with different degrees of depression, and that's where the different stages of primary school are directed. I therefore feel that in many ways this is a little unnecessary, because if today's education system works, what you're looking for in many ways is just what you're looking for. As regards proposal No: 2, suggests that teachers who are to teach in the youth should have a professional immersion in the subject for at least one year. The situation in high school today is such that no special professional depression is required to teach there. It is then difficult to understand that we are going to introduce such a system for youth. I have some sympathy for the proposal in many ways – I can stress this – but I also see, as others have been aware, that it creates some practical problems. We have a lot of schools, and we have a school system with a lot of small units, where it's going to be really hard to implement a system like this. In addition, I also believe that it is per. Today there will be too little access to the type of qualified teaching staff, making it quite difficult to realise. But I wish, and I also hope, that one of the consequences of the new teacher education law is that the students choose a relatively deep professional depression, so that we approach what is on the Right's agenda. We're going to support the setting as it exists.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e203	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e206	I took note with interest of the fact that the representative, Mr Reikham, also expressed agreement and sympathy on the matter in the Right-wing proposal. I would like to attach a few comments to his reservations to the same proposals. It is true that the intention contained in proposal No. 1 on the reform of teacher training, a step on the way is ensured by the reforms we have implemented in setting minimum requirements for the central subject of general teacher training. However, I do not fully agree with the representative, when he presents it as if the reforms we have done so far have been motivated or aimed at a stronger differentiation between the steps and the teaching skills of the different stages of school – the childhood, middle and youth. I still think it's a bit of a way to go, both in the thinking and in the practical organization of general teacher training, before we get there that intention in proposal No. 1 is fully guarded. So a little note about Reikvam's reservation for proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox As far as I could see his reasoning, it was that because we do not set precise minimum standards for teachers in higher education, we should not do so in the youth. It's a reasoning that I have little understanding of. If you need an upgrade, you need to upgrade both places. But once we've put it in at youth, it's because in today's recruitment pattern to Norwegian education, it's the weak point. It is in the early stages that important choices are made. And when we see a tendency to recruit for example. natural sciences studies at university and higher education levels are becoming weaker and weaker for each year that goes by, it is clear that the qualifications of teachers at the upper secondary level are too weak.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e219	I understood that Inge Wohnung is most concerned with the professional depression in the field of teacher training. When he then adds up to a distinction between the steps, the way it's put up here, that you have to distinguish between the childhood and the childhood, then I see it primarily as a distinction of a pedagogical nature. That means we're going to have a teacher training with different pedagogics for the different stages of primary school, and I think that's not very important and especially central. In this respect, I would like to see primary school – I ignore the 6-year-olds – as a unit when it concerns at least the main educational orientations. For me, therefore, it is in many ways a professional immersion that applies when we talk about a scheme for the different steps. Then I feel that we are on the way to the reform that has been done, as we have previously stressed that we should have a stronger professional depression in recent years in teacher training. I feel therefore that what has been done so far on the teaching side, in many ways, will cover it as right here demand. When I did a comparison of high school and high school, and a small reference to high school, it wasn't to use it as an argument against us introducing a minimum of professional immersion for those who are going to teach in the upper secondary school, but it was to give a little briefing that the situation today is so that there is no demand for professional immersion for those who are going to teach in the the theories of high school.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e226	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e229	First, I would like to say very much that there is a clear plurality in the committee for what we have presented. It is quite right, as both working case-speakers and the other side have said, that it is a follow-up to the teacher-training reform discussed earlier in Stortinget. I have a few comments. First of all, I am very pleased with the clarification that the representative Wohnung made in relation to the fact that it is not a down priority that a law repeals, but it is a clean-up. And when one gets an own chapter, it's clear that one specifies that it's equally important. It is, as the representative Ursula Evje said, one of the most important things you can do, to train good teachers. It is not surprising either that the Right again presents the proposals that they are making when we last deal with this matter. In my view, it is the right of the representative, Mr Rikham, to say that very many of the changes that have now been made will lead us in the direction that the representative, Mr Wohnung and Mr Right, have proposed, but they will not have the negative results of these proposals. Almost half of the country's schools are a few schools, and the likes are not automatically a natural division as one has done here. There are also many arguments against it. Now, we're getting a greater degree of professionalism, but one doesn't go away from what's also a doctor in an understanding of what the general teacher is, that as important as the professional deepening, without ignoring it, is the perspective of well-being that the general teacher has developed. The representative's salary said it was an anachronism, and it could be. Our country has a special geography. I heard an interesting article by the representative of the payroll earlier today, where he said that he was a person who had a great sense of anachronisms, so I would ask him to consider whether this anachronism is actually also a strength for us overall. Of course, I was very pleased with the representative Wohnning's statement that, like working case spokespersons, he has great confidence in the sitting government.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e240	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e243	The councils fell well for the temptation, as many of us do, to quote a little bit incompletely. My statement was not quite as general and as unlimited as it was reproduced. I said that just in this context I have a high degree of trust in the sitting government. But what made me ask for the word for a little clarification was the Council's comments on the proposals again. I have trouble seeing that this is of the anachronisms that are protective, because, as I pointed out, I think the problem here is that we're dragging a tradition that is probably valuable, but that was actually adapted to a completely different school structure than the one we have today. General teaching was quite the right thinking as long as we had a 7-year-old primary school. Now we have a ten-year compulsory school, and then the challenge is completely different from before, and it goes not only to the question of professional immersion, but also to vocational education. For there is not such a clear difference between the educational aspect of teacher training and the professional one could get the impression from the representative of Reikham. It is both the purely professional immersion and the skilled part that sets completely different requirements for teaching 15- to 16-year-olds than for teaching 6-year-olds. And it's high time we took the consequences of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e250	First I have to give the representative a salary right in that it might not be a completely complete quote I came along with, but I allowed myself to say that it pleased me anyway. When it comes to the points made by the representative, the teacher-general is not alone here either. On the six-year-olds' page, it is clear that there is a great deal of work to be done here with pre-school teachers, and it has provided the first classes with valuable impulses and educational challenges. Similarly, we know that when it comes to youth, there is also a lot of other types of recruitment. And it'll be more and more clear to both school owners and school leaders that one has to try to see a recruitment that takes care of several pages in a way, so that one can cover it both at the beginning of the school with the six-year-olds, and that one can cover it with a professional deepening at the end, i.e. where there is a large enough school to make it natural with such recruitment. I don't want to say that there are simple answers here, because the reason one has gone more towards professional deepening is of course that one saw that a school where one didn't even have mathematics as a compulsory subject in the teacher's education was wrong. And then we've taken some steps. After having a meeting a couple of weeks ago with math experts and going through the real science and mathematics, we see that today's stand is difficult. But there is also a deal that many of the grips that are done should be able to give good results. So I think we should try them out now.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e259	No more lines have been requested. Nor has anyone asked for the floor in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e267	The time for tomorrow's meeting is too late. However, the President will propose that the sitting proceed to the vote on case No. 1 and 2 are done. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e275	In the course of the debate, the representative, Mrs Høegh, has put forward proposal No. 1, on behalf of the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e325	Here you have the Progress Party and SV notify that they will vote against the second sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e406	There is an aberrant proposal here, proposal No. 1, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Law of 28 February 1997 No. 19 on population protection is amended as follows: the new third sentence of the third paragraph of Section 21-9 is replaced by the following: A user contact/follow-up manager referred to in the fifth paragraph of Section 15-12 may be provided with the name and address of lone dependants receiving transitional support within the scope of the user contact without prejudice to the obligation of professional secrecy. [[People's Security Act]] ‘... The party on progress has announced that they will vote against both the vote and the proposal. So it's going to be voiced first over the proposal and then over the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e418	I have reason to believe that all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, as explained, will vote in favour of the proposal that I have presented. At least that was the outcome of the debate before today.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e423	The right-hand proposal is a clarification, in which it is formulated that this applies to lone dependants receiving transitional aid, precisely in order not to be allowed to be eroded in relation to the obligation of professional secrecy. So it would be surprising if you couldn't go in for that kind of clarification. At least SV goes in for it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e428	That is right, as the two previous speakers have said. This proposal by the Right is a clarification, which the Council of State also expressed that she perceived it as in the debate. I would recommend that the representatives of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left vote in favour of the Right's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e435	It is true that the proposal is a clarification, which the Group of the Workers' Party must also vote for.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e440	Then we'll talk about the proposal from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e451	Since the proposal of the Right is now accepted, the new third sentence of Section 21-9 is deleted. Since Odelstinget has adopted a proposal which does not have our orders in the committee, the President will refer to the third paragraph of Section 31 of the Rules of Procedure, which reads as follows: ‘If the Odelstinge adopts amendments to the processing of laws and has not been proposed by a committee, the Committee shall, as a general rule, give its opinion on the decision to amend them before being dealt with in the Lamentatione. ‘... It was also recommended that: In the preamble to Chapter 22, the fourth indent of the table of contents is replaced by the following: the payment of child allowances to contributors is set out in Section 22-3a;
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e484	The progress party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e582	There is an error in the configuration. the text shall be replaced by the following: ‘Law of 22 June 1962’ and not 2 June.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e616	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e623	The legislative decision will be sent to the Saving Decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e629	In the course of the debate, Inge Wohnung, on behalf of the Right, has presented two proposals, No. 1 and 2. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for changes in teacher education with a view to establishing differentiated approaches to the stage, the intermediate and the stage of youth for the last 2 years. ‘... Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a change in the requirements for the competence of high school teachers so that teachers who teach theoretical knowledge should have at least one year of professional immersion in the subject. ‘... These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e863	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1998-11-05-lower.ana.ud390e870	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
