ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 29th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Jani Prednik, Franc Jurša, Franci Kepa, Aljaž Kovacič from 10 a.m. to 12 noon. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 17. This is for a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the Area of Education and Education. At its 29th extraordinary meeting on 19 January 2022, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the Field of Education and Education should be re-elected. To explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Branimir Struck.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! As you know, the State Council, with an unusually high proportion, has adopted a veto on the above-mentioned law. This vote goes beyond this normal division; only a few of the saints were against this veto. Why is that, I'll try to answer in these two minutes. The Council of State has drawn attention to the views of the Ministry of Education. As you know, the Ministry of Education has rejected this law on purely professional grounds, which are problematic, as far as the objectives of the changes to the law are concerned. On the Committee, the Ministry also made this clear and precise. You probably know that attitude, too. It is a matter of sharpening the conditions under which, in schools with Italian learning language, it is possible to obtain a job for teachers, teachers, as well as to tighten the conditions in Italian language for all other employees, starting with cleaners, administration, accounting and other staff. Two facts stem from this or two consequences from this law. Schools with Italian learning language have already been very difficult to provide for quality teachers, since, of course, they have not been available under these conditions by now. At the same time, by introducing certain specific conditions that the Slovenian education system does not know, differences in relation to this part of the education system are deepened in some way. Although the law, which provides education for both minorities, clearly states that this part of education is an integral part of the Slovenian educational system, there seems to be absolutely unnecessary differences here. What is essential is the answer to the question whether this extreme exacerbation in creating the conditions actually brings the objectives that the Italian community rightly expects, which is the highest possible quality of Italian language knowledge in schools with Italian learning language in Slovenia. The problem with these schools is that they have an extremely mixed population of students and students who walk — from these migrants, Russians, Ukrainians, anyone who does not enter this process with their mother Italian language, but who are practically learning Italian from the beginning. And this problem, of course, probably reduces the quality of communication itself in Italian. This issue, with a clear threshold that will cause difficulties in providing experts and likely a decline in quality, cannot therefore be resolved. However, it is clear that a substantial number of teachers and teachers will need to be received from Italy, as such conditions in Slovenia will meet significantly fewer people. In these, as we have received many letters, there is some practice that they do not know the Slovenian language when they come to Italian schools, although of course we should master both, including the language of the environment; and for this they even receive an addition. This problem, in my view, is misinterpreted and causes problems in deepening differences, but it does not bring solutions. We believe that the solution to the mother tongue itself, which the common European language framework does not know, will bring further problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent of the labour force. In order to present the opinion of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Mojca Škrinjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Chairman. Hello, colleagues, colleagues and viewers! The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth is at its 43rd emergency meeting. 1. 2022 addressed the request of the National Council for the Renewal of the National Assembly on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the Field of Education and Education, submitted to the National Assembly by Member Felice Žiža and Ferenc Horváth, which was adopted at its 93rd extraordinary session. 1. 2022. The Law-Legal Service has examined the law in accordance with its powers. Her representative said that she noted that the State Council's comments on the request for re-decision referred to questions related to the assessment of the appropriateness of legislation which were of a substantive nature. However, the content of the request goes beyond the scope of the tasks of this service set out in Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and is therefore not defined until those reasons and thus does not apply to the request of the Council of State. In the introduction, the law was presented by a representative of the Council of State. He was followed by a representative of the proposer, who said, inter alia, that it was a law for the implementation of Article 64 of the Constitution, which governed the special rights of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities in Slovenia, as it had so far only been partially realized. He explained that, already in 2018, the Institute of Education, in cooperation with the Ministry, conducted knowledge tests and that the law was prepared in cooperation with directors, professors and other experts working in bilingual schools. He stressed that only constitutional rights regarding the learning language would be realized by law. There was a discussion in which a member of the Committee felt that the law had been amended in 2018 precisely because of problems with the recruitment of the relevant staff, which required a lower level of language knowledge and the employment situation has not changed to date. He also did not think it appropriate that graduates of tertiary education who had completed studies in the Italian language would not be able to teach them without a test of Italian language knowledge. He also drew attention to the unequal treatment of the required knowledge for Italian teachers in place, to the fact that the Coastal Self-Governmental Community of Italian Nationality had not submitted an opinion on the law and to a large number of additional negative opinions. A member of the committee explained that multilingualism has become a necessity in Europe and that much work will be needed in this area in the future. She felt that the global world required additional language skills outside Europe and that the latter was also linked to the culture of the interlocutor. She pointed out that those who teach a foreign language in Slovenia must also know their mother tongue well and that there is already an expert examination for teachers in the whole field, which contains knowledge of Slovenian language, pedagogical performance and knowledge of legislation. With regard to staffing problems, however, she explained that they stem from 1996 where by then the first sicko rate was sufficient to teach today, and after that year university studies were needed. This has created a huge gap in which schools have helped with the employment of people who have not yet completed their full education, which is still permitted by the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education under certain conditions. Finally, it expressed its wish that the quality of language knowledge would also be reaffirmed in Italian territory. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted an opinion that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the Field of Education and Education was appropriate because it had been voted on by the majority of all members and members of the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u5	Thank you very much. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler Felice Žiži.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u6	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and friends, nice greetings. I also welcome everyone else in the hall. Egregio Presidente della Camera di Stato, Grazie per la password. Un cordiale saluto and tutti and presenti. Tiste Hölgyim és Uraim! In the previous week, the directors and directors of educational institutions with Italian teaching language in the municipality where the Italian National Community lives wrote a public statement by the National Council, stressing that they themselves, as field experts, have found a major problem with the use of Italian language by teachers and professional colleagues of educational institutions with Italian learning language and, thus, with the help of other experts, have prepared and formulated a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the field of education and education. As has already been said, and as we all know, the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities have the right to education and education in their mother tongue in accordance with legislation and the Constitution. They also have the right to design and develop it. As we have already said several times, the existing law, which was passed in 2018 with certain compromises, because it was also targeted and implemented in this law, which is now in force, a good solution, has essentially come to compromise that this knowledge of the Italian language is being reduced at the level of the foreign language in the SEA, i.e. the common European language framework, to the level of C1, which was immediately known and we were aware that the matter will not be possible. Today, this law gives the possibility that Article 15 which contains the knowledge and quality and competences of teachers who do not have the conditions to be admitted to Italian schools with Italian learning language must be tested in Italian language level C1. We know that languages are defined in three major categories. The first category is the language 1 or the language which is a learning language in schools and can represent the mother tongue; the language 2 which is the language of the environment and is used as an example in the national mixed areas where the Hungarian and Italian national communities live. So for us, the language of the environment is Slovenian, and for Slovenian schools and students and teachers in these areas, the language of the environment is Hungarian or Italian. The second issue, which is very important, is highly discriminated against by this law in comparison with Slovenian schools, schools in Slovenia, with Slovenian learning language. Slovenian schools, in order for teachers and professionals to be able to be permanently employed in schools, must pass an expert examination where no one thinks that the quality of the exam itself could be at the level of foreign language or at the level of C1 by category SEEO. We therefore propose that this Article 15 with the other 14 articles, which also enhances the knowledge of Italian by teachers of Slovenian language and technical-administrative staff and other professors, teachers of foreign languages, be increased to C1. This will give them the opportunity to receive a bilingual supplement and improve those competences and create a better environment in our schools so that Italian language and Italian culture can be better and better taught at a higher level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Nice greetings to all present! In the National Assembly on 13 January this year, we adopted a new Law on the Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the field of education and education, which redefines the level of knowledge of the Italian language, which must be maintained by professionals and other workers in schools and schools in the national mixed area and the way or procedure for proof of Italian language as a learning language. By 44 votes in favour, we confirmed the proposed amendment, which increases the level of knowledge of the Italian language. In the Desus Group, we stress that there is a higher level of knowledge of the Italian language in educational institutions with the Italian learning language and a higher level of language for professionals and other workers in these educational institutions. Members of the Desus Group have already stressed, at the time of the adoption of the amendment, that in the field of the protection of minority communities, the right to preserve and use minority languages in both private and public life constitutes the right of minorities. In order for the language of the national communities to be maintained in a quality manner, quality education is essential, which is implied, of course, by the appropriate level of knowledge of the language of the nationalities of those who teach. We are absolutely in agreement with this in the Desus Group, and I believe that no one can deny it. The second question is what level of language should be prescribed for professionals and other workers in educational institutions. The higher level of language undoubtedly makes it possible to carry out even more qualitative educational work, which, I stress once again, is one of the key factors for the continued existence and development of the national community. There was almost no discussion on this issue in the State Council. However, the Council of State highlighted the lack of transparency of the system as regards the level of knowledge of the Italian language and the lack of adequate staff, which is already a question of the implementation of this regulation. However, the drafter stressed that the solution was prepared together with all principals and educators, teachers, with the President of the Coastal Self-Government Community, and ultimately with the cooperation of the Minister of Education, which gives its weight to the proposed solution. Members of the Desus Group, we will re-support the law. We believe that the language of the national communities represents one of the fundamental rights of the national communities. The higher level of knowledge in schools and kindergartens, according to our assessment, is further increasing the level of protection of the rights of the national community, which is already at a moderately high level today. In fact, most other Member States, either of the European Union's species or of the entire world map, are taking our country as an example of excellence in ensuring human rights and fundamental freedoms in the field of minorities. Grazie.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mojca Škrinjar will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. We are born into the tongue, we listen to it in our mother’s arms, in the arms of my father’s protective arm, in the game with our peers and peers. Our mother tongue marks our mental processes, allowing us to express our ideas clearly. The only way to learn a foreign language is to move in a foreign - language environment to adopt it and start thinking about it is to express ourselves like our mother. However, if we learn it through school, it must be won in a different way, through language patterns, such as through an interface. This way, on average, three hours of foreign language in schools per week is not possible without special effort not only to understand the word but also to express our thoughts clearly and logically. Good expression requires extra effort, which is a study of a foreign language or a life in a foreign language environment. The one who teaches a foreign language needs to master his native language well, and that is to say, if he wants to translate not only words but also to translate the culture and logic of that language properly, he must be able to say so. And the same applies to the language of the environment. Ambitiousness is needed in the field of language knowledge in Slovenia in general, but not only in Slovenia, but also in Italian territory. We really want them to be equally demanding in Italy to their employees in schools visited by Slovenians and Slovenians. All of this is also a challenge for educational institutions, for universities teaching Slovenian and Italian. If we want to create Europe, Europe of the future, we also need to express it, to fight for our ideas. But we can only do this if we know a good language. Not only are languages translated in the European Parliament in order to understand their neighbours, their European fellow citizens, their culture, but they need language skills; and this good language knowledge. This is a huge investment in both man and society. For these reasons, we will reaffirm this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Lidija Dijak Mirnik will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues, colleagues! At the proposal of the National Council, we will once again decide on a new law defining the specific rights of the Italian and Hungarian national communities in the field of education and education. Already in the consideration of the draft law following a regular procedure, there have been numerous shortcomings which have been exposed both by the Council of State, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of State, including by the Legislative and Legal Service, and not least by our opposition. All of us, but we have all warned that with the increasing complexity of knowledge for Slovenian language teachers, there will be a lack of teaching skills in the education of the Italian national community. Our warnings have been heard, and despite this problem of school staff shortages with the Italian national community, they are already facing today. Moreover, it is also controversial to set the level of mother tongue for professional workers in schools with the Italian national community, and it is unacceptable that the level of knowledge of the Slovenian language for these workers would be set by ad hoc. There is no recognised methodology for motherhood testing. Also, the Slovenian Institute for Education and the Ministry of Education does not have established certification according to the common language framework of the Council of Europe. Only the State Examination Centre has adequate staff and financial support for this. In its consideration of the bill, the Legislative and Legal Service also pointed out that the amendment of the law with amendments does not regulate the situation of the Hungarian national community in education and education. The knowledge of professional workers will thus continue to be at the level of the Council of Europe's common language framework for the education and education of Hungarian national communities. For the Italian Community, however, it will be the criterion of the mother tongue. In LMŠ we strongly advocate the regulation of minority rights, as we are also aware of the problems faced by the Slovenian minority in substitution. However, there is unfortunately no reciprocity between Slovenia and Italy in this case. In Italy, according to the Secretary of State of the Ministry of State, the level of knowledge of Slovenian at the level of general schooling and, on the other hand, the proposer proposes that Slovenian teachers teaching in Italian be given the level of knowledge of the mother tongue. This is not acceptable for us in LMŠ. Therefore, we have already voted against the regular procedure, and we will also vote against this law in the LMŠ in the re-decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u14	Thank you very much, President. Respected and respected! In our first decision on the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly, the Social Democrats put forward a number of arguments why we do not support the proposals tabled by Members of the National Communities. We also agree with the State Council's statements on the decision-making requirement. Today, we reiterate that the proposal for a law unjustifiably strengthens the level of language knowledge for teachers as well as for professional, administrative and other technical workers in educational institutions with Hungarian language. While we agree that the quality of education and language skills must be at the highest possible level, we believe this is already ensured by the existing language knowledge requirements. We are convinced that the proposed changes would bring more weaknesses than strengths and that the feasibility of the proposal in practice is also being questioned, as there is already a marked lack of staff for individual jobs in the field of education and education. It is precisely due to employment problems that the law was amended in 2018, but the staffing problems remain. The adoption of such a proposal would likely even lead to a human resources crisis. The test catalogue has already represented a major obstacle for participants in the past, mainly due to a narrow circle of experts or interrogators for individual languages in the examination committees and to ensuring objectivity and a sense of fairness. And that's why the S.E.A.K. standard of knowledge was introduced. The amendment of the law reintroduces some double criteria, namely one of the SEJO criteria for teachers of the Slovenian language and foreign languages, and for others a test of knowledge to be carried out by the competent Ministry in cooperation with the Slovenian Institute of Education. It is also problematic to carry out a knowledge test at the Institute of Education, which is not involved in any similar tests. And this was also exposed during the discussions. We are therefore convinced by the Social Democrats that such changes should be proposed by the profession and also prepared by the profession; not by the Members of the National Assembly. Of course, we will not support the proposal again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u16	Thank you, President. Once again, we must all agree that in schools with Italian learning language and bilingual schools, where one of the learning languages is Hungarian, the teacher must be as familiar as possible in the language. Of course, even a member of the national community. But in view of all the past legislative changes that have taken place over the last 20 years, at such a step, of course, the applicants should seek some broadest possible consensus and take this process wide and inclusive, with appropriate analyses. We have heard why the Ministry of Education and the State Council are opposed to the law – because in recent years there have been difficulties in finding appropriate personnel; and, of course, by seeking a broad consensus of the profession, of course, ministries, in order to bring this process to the widest and most inclusive conclusion. I ask myself about the honesty of this bill. The fact is that for a long time there has been overriding of rights in the field of education or in schools with Italian learning language. If you look into the old laws, in 1982 Yugoslavia, I think it was the first time that it passed a law regulating this area. There it was very precise that teachers who teach in Italian schools could be members of the national community. This was the first basic provision which, of course, provided enough or the highest possible level of language. In the event that such personnel could not be received, other criteria such as the completion of primary and secondary schools with Italian learning language would then be included; and if this could not yet be met, then, of course, the examination at the appropriate level of language knowledge. The first blow came in 2001 when the current law was amended and, of course, introduced, which we also enforce. And then a novel in 2018 proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which received a positive opinion from the Coastal Self-Government Community. At that time, President Scheriana supported this law and Mr Žiža, the current proposer, was a member of the Coastal Self-Government Council. Now the solution that someone was defending a few years ago is being criticized by the same people. That is why I really wonder about the honesty of this bill. If we have to think about changes, I think we should go in the direction of the 1982 Yugoslav regime. What's the problem with all this? The outcome of the procedure to which the adoption of this law was brought has been a very clear indication of the problem when a member of the national communities essentially decides to become a language on the scale and when they are actively supporting any government, regardless of the fact that there is currently a coalition like that which we have. And I think that today's law that we're dealing with is essentially the most plastic indicator of that. We were given a polarised National Assembly, where 44 members voted in favour of the law, 33 against 5 abstentions. We have opposition from the Ministry of Education, we have opposition from the Education Institute and for the first time in the history of independent Slovenia we have a suspension veto to the law governing the rights of the Italian and Hungarian national communities. For the first time in the history of Slovenia, the law on the special rights of national communities is vetoed. The veto, which was voted by an incredible majority, was 23 votes in favour, 5 against, 5 abstentions. I think that this clearly shows that unfortunately the issue of rights, which should of course be absolute over any debate, is being instrumentalised for some very special interests. Finally, about the letter of directors you all received a few weeks ago. Note, in particular, that this letter is sent with the head of the Coastal Self-Government Community and without signatures or indicating the names of those directors. For all these reasons, we will vote against the law again.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u18	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the field of education was tabled by representatives of nationality, Member Felice Žiža and Member Ferenc Horváth. In the Republic of Slovenia we have two indigenous national communities. These are the Italian and Hungarian national communities. Members of the Italian national community live in the areas of Koper, Izola, Piran and Ankaran. Members of the Hungarian National Community live in the areas of Lendava, Dobrovnik, Šalovci, Moravian Toplice and Hodoš. Both communities have the right to education and education in their own language and to form and develop education and education. The education and education of members of both national communities is an integral part of the education and education system in Slovenia. In the national mixed area where members of the Italian national community live, educational work is carried out in the Italian language. In Italian schools, Slovenian is taught as a language of the environment. In schools with Slovenian learning language, Italian is taught as a language of the environment. In the national mixed area, where members of the Hungarian national community live, educational work is carried out bilingually – in Slovenian and Hungarian. In Novi Slovenija we have written in the basic programme: the country must guarantee individual freedom and must realize the democratic desire of the majority, while also protecting the rights of minorities. Therefore, it needs a credible legal framework based on free democratic fundamental regulation and the division of power. The New Slovenia Group will once again support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u20	Thank you, President. Good morning, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! This amendment strengthens the level of knowledge of the Italian language, which must be met by professionals and other workers in schools with Italian learning language. As a basic reason for the amendment of the law, the proposer cites the provision of higher quality education in the Italian learning language on the coast. It highlights an uneven approach to the required level of knowledge of the Italian language for professionals and those performing administrative, technical and other works. This minimal and, as they say, a harmless change is indeed flawed. The profession, including the Ministry of Education, highlights serious systemic dilemmas with regard to the novel, and we also expose possible discrimination against Prekmurci, Štajerec, Notranjci, Korošcev, Gorenjci and Dolenjci, who are looking for employment on the Coast and will never speak Italian at the level of their mother tongue and will not get a job at school, even though they cook meatloafs and bake pancakes for children for fingers to lick, are super reliable drivers or maintain school technique as a Swiss watch with the tools of Slovenian production. Today we are deciding this for the second time because the Council of State at the initial decision of the National Assembly has almost unanimously adopted the veto. We do not support changes in the SAB Group in the light of all the comments that took place during the hearing. The novela is weak and potentially discriminatory and does not in any way enhance the quality of education by changing it. It reduces the possibility of employment for many Slovenes. We agree with the opinion of the Commission of the State Council that the common language framework is a sufficiently transparent and comparable methodology for assessing the level of linguistic knowledge; at the same time, we wonder how the reciprocity of the same criteria for the Slovenian minority in Italy is. This novel also greatly increases the differences in the conditions that Slovenian teachers in Italy must have in schools with Slovenian learning language. There is only enough graduation in the Slovenian language, while we are trying to introduce the required level of Italian knowledge on the mother tongue also for a school janitor, cook or accountant. Thus, neither the common language framework of the Council of Europe nor our legislation is known. This is a derogation from the principles applied in the European Union in the verification of foreign language knowledge and are also introduced into Slovenian educational legislation. The requirement is completely unreasonable in the light of the shortage of professional workers in schools, as well as the unanimity of the approach in relation to the Hungarian language. In the SAB party, we also advocate the excellence of education in the language of minorities in the east and west of our country; but when under the pretext of raising the quality of education in Italian, actually in the gift paper, we cannot agree to this. Neither the Government nor the Member cares about all those from other parts of Slovenia who will be prevented from working at Italian schools on the Slovenian coast, even though they would only drive a school van, prepare school meals or switch lamps in classrooms. Why? Because they weren't born to Italian mothers. And all this in your own country. Therefore, the SAB Group will not support this law. Pertanto, el Grouppo parliamentarians SAB non sosterrο questa legge. Grazie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u21	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The re-decision on the law will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law on electronic communications. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 37 Members and Members with their initial signature, Matjaž Han, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister without a department responsible for digital transformation, Mark Boris Andrijani.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u22	Dear President! Dear Members, honourable Members, all in attendance! Today is a new, good day for the digital transformation of Slovenia. After extensive and comprehensive public consultation and in-depth inter-resort coordination, you have before you the proposal for the Law on Electronic Communications or so-called ZEKom-2. The fundamental objective of this law is to transpose the European Directive, the so-called European Electronic Communications Code, into our national legal order. The transposition of this Directive promotes the connectivity and use of highly powerful networks across Slovenia. At the same time, it is easier for consumers to switch service providers, which will be free from now on. There is also a cost-effective, broadband Internet access that will allow for the use of a wide range of services for all users, regardless of their location or income. A system of public information and alarm will also be established. Thus, by sending warnings to citizens about their mobile phones in the event of natural or other accidents, we will be more effective in protecting their lives and assets, and operators will be given greater regulatory predictability and, consequently, greater security of their investments. The authorisations for use of RF spectrum will be issued for wireless broadband networks for 20 years and not for less. This will also encourage greater investment in advanced technologies, especially in the area of 5G. In addition to the benefits already mentioned, ZEK-2 will be given additional advantages in Slovenia. It will significantly strengthen the security of communications networks and services. This is particularly important because of the increased risks posed by 5G technology. This will ensure security through the use of a set of European Union cyber security tools in the field of 5G technology. These tools are the result of joint efforts by the Member States of the European Union, the European Union Cyber Security Agency and the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been a long time for honourable Members to make this proposal. The Ministry of Public Administration, which drafted the proposal for a law, opened a public debate in 2019, first with a preliminary opinion-gathering and then with a public publication of the bill on the eDemocracy portal. During the creation of this proposal, many additional consultations and coordinations were held with all key stakeholders. This has strengthened the democratic nature of the law itself, and has also improved its quality. On the other hand, the adoption process has been slightly extended and Slovenia is already somewhat behind the transposition of this Directive. The draft text before you was approved by the Government on December 17th last year. Let me add that the whole process of its preparation and coordination with key stakeholders has been led by the Ministry of Public Administration, as competence in the field of electronic communications has been transferred to the Government's digital transformation service since the beginning of this year. Dear Members and Members, we have taken into account a large number of proposals and comments from key stakeholders during the launch of this proposal. I believe that, while carefully balancing the interests of all stakeholders, we have drawn up the best possible proposal for a law that will primarily benefit users, as well as the development of the economy and our digital society as a whole. That is why I propose that you recognize the text of the law as suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u24	Dear President, Minister, all present! Finally, in the temple of democracy, we have welcomed the law on electronic communications, the happiest of which will be the younger generation. In the past, even our old parents, parents had no idea in their dreams that modern technology could be used so quickly. Most of us used public phone booths, writing and sending mail, sending postcards from the sea a few decades ago for communication. In the past, the majority also had classic fixed phones at home, including those connected to the long cable. Today’s youth, our children are all new because they are daily involved in the latest electronic communications, from Snapchat, TikTok, Vibra, Messenger and so on. All of this has its advantage and weakness, but be aware that unfortunately the genuine human contact that Slovenians as social beings need is lost. That we don't even talk about addiction to young people and their propensity, bad posture, sleepless desires, and so on. Today, we would find some older person in a village, a village that uses a regular phone, for young people, and the middle generation, it is unacceptable. We, if we do not have the latest, most expensive mobile phone with as much data as possible, are not “and” in the trend of a society that assesses us by material goods. Hand to heart, today modern communication technology allows us, in addition to long phone conversations, unlimited SMS messages, a large amount of data transfer, painting, use of the Internet for official and private matters and other things. Sometimes this was not as advanced as it is today, but it was more expensive because you paid every minute of the conversation, each text sent, and at the end of the month, a lot of Slovenes got a headache when they received the ticket. Today, many operators offer affordable packages that are tailored to the wishes of citizens and citizens to get what they need. In doing so, it is important for operators to have competitive packages and for as few conflicts between them as possible in the long term. In the countryside, Slovenia lacks coverage of households with electronic communications technologies. Current coverage is 60%, which is very low. There's still a signal to be upgraded in the tunnels. There is almost no signal on the highway near Ljubljana in the tunnels. There's also some other parts of the highway that's running out of signal. The state of law in the field of electronic communications in the Republic of Slovenia follows many directives of the European Union and is also being renewed over the years by new directives. In the Slovenian National Party, we certainly favour the fact that the law wants to increase the safety of public communications networks and services, precisely because of the increased risks posed by the new 5G technology. The aim of the renovation is therefore to contribute to connectivity in the domestic internal market and to increase the choice for all citizens. Who doesn't want a very high-powered network that will be set up in our cities and also in our villages, in the countryside, and will be able to be used by all segments of our society?Oh, my God! Since we are talking about an information society or technology, it must be accessible and especially practical for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as for small and medium-sized enterprises. We must not forget that this is a universal service where the protection of users' rights is also very important. Here, in the first place, we think of our vulnerable groups, such as disabled and socially weaker households, which must not be discriminated against. We Slovenians have always been a very skeptical nation, and the privacy of the users of public communications services is also important. However, the safety of networks and services must be in order not to create a variety of unloving intrusions, a place of identity, all in the light of the management of the risks posed by new technologies. Finally, I would like to add that the accelerated development of electronic communications networks and services in our country will enable economic, social progress and development, while our citizens will be provided with as secure electronic communications as possible in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! Today we are considering a proposal for a new law on electronic communications, which is intended to implement large-scale changes in this area brought about by the amended regulatory framework for electronic communications. This framework was introduced by the 2018 European Directive, which should be transposed into national law last year. The transposition of the directive into the Slovenian legal order is therefore already late, which is why Slovenia has already earned a reminder from the European Commission, which is happening too often in our country. The new Government Law on Electronic Communications is intended to promote the development of electronic communications networks and services in Slovenia and thus economic and social development in the country. The proposed solutions in the law would strengthen the development of the information society, including access to highly capable networks. In this way, by providing more transparent contracts and better quality services to consumers, we would provide more choice and rights. The proposed solutions aim to regulate the efficient use of radio spectrum; to promote investment in high-quality and high-quality networks; to ensure the safety of networks and services, including the increased risks posed by 5G technology in providing these networks and services to entities that provide so-called critical services from the point of view of the state and society; to protect consumers and to improve access to services; and to protect lives through access to emergency communication numbers. Everything sounds nice and right to this point. However, it should also be noted that there are a number of concerns and unacceptable news that have been rewritten in the draft law, which is also pointed out by a number of actors, such as the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce, the Association for Information and Telecommunications, to various providers and producers in the electronic communications market such as Telemach and Huawei, and finally the Agency for Communications Networks and Services and the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia. One of the key findings we see in the opinions of the various stakeholders concerns the provisions of the new proposed law relating to network and service safety, which are particularly problematic in paragraphs 115, 116 and 131. In general, these provisions allow, for the first time, the arbitrary exclusion of a particular manufacturer from the market and the failure of operators in the Republic of Slovenia to use the equipment of that manufacturer in the future, thus narrowing the possibility of operators to choose the best equipment for their users; and, secondly, it allows the arbitrary prohibition of entering the market for a particular existing manufacturer whose equipment is already used in the electronic communications network, which would require substantial investment in the replacement of that equipment. We believe that such arbitrary interference by the government in the electronic communications market and the arbitrary exclusion of suppliers will cause great uncertainty on the Slovenian market. This would limit the development and construction of the network, business plans, block investment cycles and prevent operators from freely involving equipment manufacturers in the search for the best technological solutions for their network, their users and for the strategic objectives of digitisation and economic growth. We are also convinced that such an approach will unduly burden the telecommunications sector, reduce its suitability for investors, including foreign investors, which will ultimately reduce the index of the Slovenian digital economy and the company that takes over the digital performance indicators of Europe and monitors the digital development and progress of the European Union countries. I would like to point out that due to the export orientation of the Slovenian economy and thus the dependence on balanced and clear rules of international business, the area of internationalisation must be given our particular concerns and caution. Moreover, for the Slovenian economy, free access to foreign markets is crucial for the implementation of business plans and the strengthening of international competitiveness. We must also be aware that while we express our interest in the equal and safe operation of Slovenian companies abroad, the same is expected of business operators when they operate in Slovenia. But today's law changes legislation in the opposite direction and thus closes, but does not open our economic and digital market, where investors will no longer feel welcome. Instead of checking on the basis of objective and non-discriminatory criteria the actual adequacy of equipment and thus the safety of networks and services, the criteria used relate to the supplier itself, his country of origin, whether such circumstances actually affect the equipment and safety of those services or not. The introduction of such a mechanism would also allow exclusion in the absence of any actual impact on the safety of these networks, which is contrary to free access to foreign markets and to the free movement of goods and services and is totally unacceptable to us unrelated Members. In doing so, it would be reasonable to ask whether such a mechanism would even pursue the objectives of the proposed law. The issue of interference with protected constitutional rights is also raised with regard to the proportionality of these measures and the consequences for consumers and the Slovenian economy. We agree with the position of the Chamber of Commerce, which proposes that the law should also provide for other options, such as that operators could participate in the risk assessment process and have a dialogue in which the regulator, for example, Akos and operators who know the network best, are working together to find mechanisms to address potential identified risks, rather than merely being subsequently informed about the Government's conduct by publishing a government decision in the Official Journal. This actually has the effect of banning the purchase of equipment from a particular manufacturer, and the law does not at all set a minimum deadline for the implementation of such a decision by the Government, which does not allow for any predictability. While the government refers in its proposal to the so-called European Union cyber security toolkit, we believe that it is trying to implement it incorrectly in the Slovenian legal order for years, since the toolkit explicitly requires that the assessment of supplier risk profiles should be carried out solely for safety reasons and on the basis of objective criteria. Compared to other legislation of the Member States of the Union, a range of tools can also be implemented in a more objective and non-discriminatory manner, which constitutes a much slower intervention into the market economy if regulations of other European countries are already going in the direction of banning the equipment under consideration and not banning suppliers. Unlike other members of the Union, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is leading digital policy in a completely different direction. If I were more specific, today's law could be called lex anti-Huawei. With him, President Janša would, following his diplomatic slips about the clumsy statements about Taiwan, which greatly upset the Chinese authorities, have already imposed a second slap in China within a month, since the law could even prohibit the presence of the world's largest equipment manufacturer, Huaweia, on our Slovenian market. We strongly oppose this kind of display of muscles to the detriment of the Slovenian economy, especially in today's highly volatile times for the economy. It is our opinion that, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, all companies should have the right to act as investors, operators or as providers of goods and services, regardless of where they come from, provided that they comply with the rules, competition and consistent compliance with the legal and security rules laid down by national and European legislation to protect consumers and the environment, and to ensure a level playing field that represents elements of economic and political sovereignty. Such local treatment as we expect in the event of Slovenian companies performing in any foreign market is expected first of all by foreign companies in our country. And if they don't get it, foreign investments will move from ours to other, more friendly countries and markets. On the basis of this view, we believe that a state intervention in the electronic communications market should be more predictable, more specific and justified by serious security concerns in the transparent process, without unduly limiting the introduction of network development. In addition, we propose that the review process includes all stakeholders, operators and producers and is not addressed to the entire network, but only to certain parts of the network considered critical; and that it is addressed only to specifically possible security disputed equipment, not to specify the risk of the manufacturer as a whole. Such an approach has been introduced by Germany, and we believe that our country, which wants to achieve a digital breakthrough next year, should follow the example of these most economically and digitally developed countries. For all these reasons, we will object to the proposal of the Law on Electronic Communications in the Parliamentary Group of Non-Aligned Members, especially for the reason that the law allows for the exclusion of suppliers according to the country of origin and on the basis of different criteria, but does not take into account the technical standards of the European Union and the examples of good practices of other Member States in this area. As a result, it does not act in the spirit of bilateral economic agreements with third countries or in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation. Thank you very much. I'm sorry I have a bad voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. A very nice welcome to all on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party! Today we live in a world of electronic communications. Especially medium-sized, younger generations live simultaneously in the real world and also in the virtual world that modern technology offers. Of course, all of this brings advantages, but it also carries traps. The special construction of modern networks of 5G and successors is of course vulnerable. This is an infrastructure that allows extremely wide-ranging interference with human privacy; and who, at least from a distance, has had the opportunity to learn about the field of hackerry knows that there is no system in which it could not be infiltrated. If you have enough time, enough money, then you can break through any electronic protection of this world; and this is, of course, the trap that all this modern technology brings with it. All of this needs to be taken into account when adopting legislation in which an appropriate level of services, freedom – including freedom of choice, freedom of supply – must be ensured for the user and also for the entrepreneur involved. On the other hand, it is important to ensure security and, above all, it is the law that is before us today. The law offers security solutions, which are also harmonised at European level and are appropriate, and at the same time responds to some of the challenges facing us today. It should be borne in mind that individual entities today no longer perform on the global market through, say, an equal market approach, but also through sometimes even blackmail. In particular, there are some who do not respect the principles covered by international agreements which do not respect the principles of respect for copyright, but also all the other rights that a particular producer who invests in its technology has in its development, and then someone else copies them irrespective of all international rules, irrespective of all patents. And then the sale at a lower price on the world market, and it helps itself in some way, we'll say, a diplomatically unconventional way, which of course is not in line with modern law and understanding the market as the face of free entities. All of this has to be taken into account when it is being put in place and when the legislation before us today is being addressed, the legislation on electronic communications. In fundamental solutions, this is in line with European standards, and it also implements certain things that should already be established in our legislation and must be adopted as soon as possible from this point of view. On the other hand, it allows the establishment of a system that will protect, protect, protect, and protect the consumer's privacy, which will prevent any modern systems from being abused for anything other than communication, for what they are actually meant to do. We will be able to improve some solutions in future readings, so there is an opportunity for amendment, and by then there will be enough time for all the ideas that have yet to arise or may still be studied; and if we assess that they are good, they will also be adequately supplemented in the law itself. For all these reasons in the SDS Group, we believe that the proposed law is a good and appropriate basis for dealing with it and we will support it in a uniform manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u30	The Law on Electronic Communications — Today we have heard quite a few nice words. Some think it's just WhatsApp and TickTok, and I don't know what else, others say it's a holiday today because we're discussing this law. Well, I'm just saying, you can see where this government is headed in this marriage, too. And this obstinacy and belief that it must have control over everything is very clear in this law. Yes, this marriage has been in preparation for quite some time. It's started in the previous government. In fact, very few texts have been changed, except on individual articles, which are crucial. We would very much like to control the regulator for these areas, this is Akos, where it is more than clear what changes have been made within the articles and how the Director can be resolved. Watch this. This one's the best. Everything remained the same as basically, only one thing was added – that the director could be relieved if he was late for marriage. And now you understand what that means. Do you have any idea how late your marriage is? In administrative proceedings. Does the director have any influence on that? Nothing. In all other procedures led by Akos and the parties to the proceedings complain, delay, become passive and so on, not to say what else. Such an incomprehensible provision is more than clear that there is only one reason in there — because someone wants to get rid of someone and needs a new provision. The next thing that's basically clear and said from the very beginning. Remember the remarkable visit of Secretary of State Pompeii to Bled, where this government has literally celebrated the epochal, what achievements it will achieve with this visit, except that the Americans, of course, have drawn the most. And then the Foreign Minister signed the agreement or then made a joint statement. And we all knew at that time what would happen to that law that we are dealing with today, which is crucial. In fact, the US side, of course legitimately in its interests, has ensured that it will receive another more country, which will be obedient within the framework of the Multi-Garden countries. And when it procures, it will, of course, procure their equipment and not those that are today — at least today, I do not know how it will be developed in five years’ time — essentially and best developed. And we're all saying, today was already mentioned, about Huawei. The fact is, with this law — or government — it does not simply fall into a free or free economic initiative. An undertaking already established in Slovenia and already in operation and, in fact, already offers on the market and, finally, several operators have their equipment, if it is adopted, on the basis of the criteria and criteria set out in this law, which are absurd – I must say that anyone who is first familiar with the criteria and criteria can see that it is literally targeted and in advance who will have to be excluded if he wants to perform on the market, it is a matter of so-called risk suppliers, we will talk more about it in the debate itself – where it is determined who will fall out of this system in advance. The European Commission gave very clear guidance and recommendations in 2020. And none of these recommendations speak of any of the suppliers being excluded. But of course, he's talking about some equipment that needs to be looked out for. We've reclassified it to suppliers. What's more, this law goes even deeper. In fact, legal protection is virtually gone because, unlike other countries, of course, which will have the option, those who are in some way excluded or who will be asked to be expelled from the proceedings will be able to seek their right before the courts. Of course, this will not be possible with us because it will be the basis for this order, which is a kind of absurdity. In fact, we attack Article 22 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and say more than plainly that in the Republic of Slovenia not all will be treated equally before the law in terms of legal protection. The essential articles in this law are, of course, 115th and 116th articles, which came after this signing of the agreement, and later in the discussion, we will also show how certain things are literally copied from what the Americans have agreed with the representative of the Slovenian government and in fact bowed down and complied with the Visegrad Group and, of course, exclusively to the American interests in this part. Why is that? Why is that? Things are very clear. When you make big mistakes first, someone puts out an account. And this account will be paid again by us – users. Cybersecurity is one of those things which, of course, can be protected by the Constitution when it comes to public interest. Absolutely. That's indisputable. Even when we're talking about operators. But where will this limit be when we talk about natural persons? Who's gonna break it down? This marriage doesn't even talk about it. It will be very interesting to listen to this debate, especially in spirit, when the Minister said the following sentence: We have taken into account many of the proposals that emerged in the public debate. But we get piles of mail – so Akosa, the Association of Consumers, certain companies that want them in advance and will, of course, also pay up because of this law, and also, in some ways, have been disabled – that in fact not a single proposal they have proposed has been taken into account. [[…]] So who were they talking to in this government, and whose suggestions were taken into account? Yes, they probably took into account those proposals that came from those interested in adopting such a law. This is another proof of how ruthless this government is and is not interested in anything just before the elections. Today, I have even heard that some have invoked it — you know, this law has to be adopted, because otherwise we will pay the penalty because we are already a little late and so on. I'm sorry, but from May to today, we've been waiting for no one. That's what the government should be asking, not the National Assembly. That's the most important information. But something else happened. In December, as the minister had said, a bill was passed and rummaged in the National Assembly. Who did the Foreign Minister meet recently? That says it all. We do not intend to support such a law in the LMS.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u32	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Today's general debate begins with the proposal for a law on electronic communications. In broad terms, since it contains as many as 321 articles and many different but interlinked areas are regulated in a very difficult matter. At the same time, the law must be in line with the legal order of the European Union. The Law on Electronic Communications, which, by the way, prepared and coordinated for two years, was adopted by the Government last year, on 17 December 2021. The purpose of this law is to regulate the more efficient use of radio spectrum, to promote investment in high-quality and high-quality networks, to ensure network and service safety, including through increased risks posed by 5G technology in providing these networks and services to entities that provide so-called critical services from the point of view of the state and society, to protect consumers and to improve access to services, and to protect lives through access to emergency communication numbers. The universal service provides a transmission speed that allows the use of a wide range of services, such as eGovernment, online banking and video calls. Instead of seeking to prepare the proposal for the Law on Electronic Communications as soon as possible, to coordinate it with stakeholders and to mediate it in the legislative process, the Government continued to abolish the Directorate for Information Society and Information Technology and set up two new and six months before the elections, and set up a new government service for digital transformation. And after two years of coordination with stakeholders, as we have heard today, we now need to adopt a demanding and extensive law in the National Assembly for a quick, in-depth view of individual articles and not least without review whether the proposed new law on electronic communications is in line with the requirements of the European acquis. As I have already mentioned, the proposed law is substantively very demanding as it lays down the conditions for the provision of electronic communications networks and for the provision of electronic communications services. It defines the management of radio spectrum, the use of numerical space, the regulation of consumer rights, defines the conditions of operation of networks and services, defines the requirements for the protection of the confidentiality of electronic communications, lays down rules for the resolution of disputes between entities on the electronic communications market and the powers, organisation and functioning of the Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia (Akos). After two years of coordination, stakeholders continue to point out individual derogations. First of all, the Slovenian Consumer Union has pointed out the regulation of consumer rights in order to improve the provisions on the right to object. The Law on Electronic Communications on the one hand does not regulate the right to withdraw from the contract in the event of a connection with terminal equipment, while on the other hand it allows operators to alter contractual terms at the time of the connection. The Association for Informatics and Telecommunications, which brings together the five largest electronic communications operators, highlighted some of the shortcomings of the bill's proposal at the time the law was drawn up, particularly with regard to the construction of networks and related infrastructures and the management of radio spectrum. Among other things, the association points out that it is not possible to extend the allocation of radio frequencies for events. They also deliver opinions on a more precise definition of network and service safety. Operators point out that they need the predictability of system regulation and that this chapter for them brings a great deal of confusion to be addressed. This is so much more important because operators expect new suppliers to enter the Slovenian market. The proposed law establishes an additional obligation for mobile communications network operators to comply with additional safety requirements when providing mobile communications networks to certain categories of customers. Taking into account the proposal for a law, operators are prohibited from using equipment or third-level services provided by high-risk suppliers. In January 2020, the European Commission issued recommendations on the European Union's 5G security toolkit and recommends an approach based on a cybersecurity approach based on a so-called risk assessment approach based solely on security reasons, based on an objective assessment of the risks identified, fully respecting the openness of the European Union's single market. Consequently, the set of tools does not directly relate to any particular supplier or country and provides objective and proportionate security measures applicable to all and seeks to harmonise safety standards across Europe and certification for the whole of the European Union. In the draft law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia ignored the recommendations of the European Commission and the technical criteria for unnecessary politicisation followed the example of the Multi-Garden States. Such arrangements result in the exclusion of certain producers on the basis of political criteria and discriminatory criteria, such as those of the country of origin. The Agency for Communications Networks and Services also made a number of comments on a proposal from the law, which is worrying. So Akos points out that the proposal for a law fundamentally interferes with its powers and functioning. Akos has already addressed a request to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for legislation and other stakeholders before the introduction of the law into the National Assembly to take into account its comments with a view to technological neutrality. Akos points out that work will be difficult under irregular conditions to plan the Agency's regulatory activities and, consequently, financial resources and human resources. We believe that the Government should take into account the opinions of the independent and independent competent Akos agencies when preparing the law, which is also undeniable. I should also draw attention to the opinion of the Comparative Law Institute, in which there is a serious concern about the compatibility of the proposed law with the Constitution, in terms of procedural guarantees in the process of identifying suppliers with high risk, in particular in terms of the rights to equal protection of rights, in terms of the right to entrepreneurship or the free economic initiative, in terms of the general principle of equality. The draft law is also controversial in terms of the principle of clarity and the specificity of the rules as part of the rule of law. The Law on Electronic Communications, in line with the European legal order, we need to do so, but the bill before us raises a number of questions. If the bill is recognised as a suitable basis for further consideration, we ask the Social Democrats whether we will be able to address most of the comments and concerns received in the follow-up to the amendments, particularly those relating to the independence of the Agency for Communications Networks and Services and to compliance with the Constitution. Before deciding whether a proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we would also like to know the results of the technical notification procedure of the European Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Boštjan Koražija will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u34	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. Thank you very much, ladies, for always being so kind and conscientiously clean. Thank you. Today's proposal for the Law on Electronic Communications calls for a new recast of the Law on Electronic Communications. In particular, for the transposition of an EU directive aimed at promoting the development of electronic communications, communication networks and services in the Republic of Slovenia and thus economic and social development in the country, including the development of an information society and access to and use of very high-powered networks for all citizens. The aim of the law is also to strengthen the security of public communications networks and services in particular, including due to the increased risks posed by 5G technology, in particular in providing those entities which provide so-called critical services from the point of view of the state and society, which is also relevant for national security. The Law on Digital Broadcasting is also repealed by the adoption of this law. However, its provisions are included in this new law. It also determines the use of radio frequencies and lays the basis for measures to extend digital radio. However, as regards the possible traps of this bill, it is important to note the strategic limitation of 5G technology providers. In particular, this applies to providers that are ownership-related to countries governed by a policy under the influence of stronger allies, such as the previously mentioned United States of America, regarded as dangerous; and cybersecurity, how and how radio frequencies will be divided; and access to infrastructure and interpersonal communication services. The 5G network as a tool of digitisation will play a key role in achieving digital transformation in the future and will influence all segments of society as a tool of digitisation, affecting the economy, health and mobility as well as the lives of each individual of us. The introduction of 5G networks has the potential to make it possible to significantly more than just improve mobile communication. It can also provide new services. And here, of course, I am also thinking about the economy and the other things that it will affect, it is said in the smart villages, in the smart places and so on. However, every technological advance brings great uncertainty, fear, and skepticism. And the 5G network undoubtedly raises a number of questions, particularly in terms of cybersecurity. Hacker intrusions and poorly protected information and communication systems are a major threat to the modern world. While these are mostly issues and challenges that we have been facing for a long time, the introduction of new technology requires further efforts and the introduction of new measures at both national and international level. The state of cyber security is not a technology problem, but it is a reality that concerns the more involved in this system, namely the operator, the equipment manufacturer, the policy and the individual, whether it is a legal or private entity. The right path to cybersecurity is, among other things, strict standards that must cover all those involved in this process. Standards to be set by an impartial profession that will be solely guided by scientific verifiability, not by political influences and pressures. How important is a reliable and stable link to the global network, especially during the current Coronavirus epidemic, when students have to study remotely and many employees work from home. I don't know if you're aware of the hardships that families were in when you ordered them to study remotely. In fact, children have been discriminated against on the basis of whether they have access to the Internet or not, although they are guaranteed the right to education under the Constitution; but you have not even looked back when thousands of children and their families have become even more unequal. By distance training, you gave your parents no choice, you gave them obligations, without giving them material opportunities to study remotely. Not everyone lives or lives in Ljubljana or elsewhere. But in the middle of the city, you put your family in enormous distress. Let me just say one personal experience, one particular case. Single mother with two compulsory children, one is a student. With her salary, she paid her bills as much as she could, according to the importance of the basics. But unfortunately, even public school, we all know that very well, it's not free. And in this case, the Coronavirus epidemic has become even more expensive or even more expensive. And during this infamous lockdown, this single mother actually stayed with a minimum wage at home with two school-bound children; with bills for Internet service or internet provider that she could not pay. Of course, we jumped in and helped her. But I would like to draw attention to a problem that, even at this time of coronavirus, all of you, who are ruling, have ignored that Internet providers, regardless of how children should be trained remotely, have demanded that families settle their accounts. And if they didn't, they just shut down the Internet; and so was almost in this case if they hadn't settled all the costs of these accounts that that single mother couldn't settle. The circle of children you took away from them the basic right to education and the families to fall into enormous distress is therefore very large. These diverse videos and distance conversations can be a welcome tool for schooling, also as a kind of enhancement, but this is only an addition to basic schooling. The school is just a school and in fact children want to be in school, want to study and also to live up to education and social networking. And the country – that is why we are here in the National Assembly – must ensure that all citizens have the opportunity to access broadband electronic communications services in all areas. In Slovenia, however, we still have so-called white foxes where actual coverage with mobile signal is poor; which broadband network can only be dreamed of or dreamed of. I would like to point out here in particular the eastern part of Slovenia, in particular the Haloz area, Goričkega, and also in fact the northern part of Slovenia, is the area of the far north of Slovenia – Koroške. In view of all this, we hope in Levica that the legal system will not be just a dead letter on paper. With an active policy of investing in the construction of a broadband network, the country has to arrange, throughout Slovenia, that, even when we are talking about students and those employees who have to work remotely, they can also do these things. However, the right to access the world's Internet is a necessity today and must be universal, which we believe is also tax-free and also free of charge. I hope that we will come to this as soon as possible and that we will arrange, as has already been said, broadband networks so that everyone can do the things they are called for or must do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Hello, Minister! Dear colleagues and colleagues! We live at the time of the fourth, on the transition to the fifth industrial revolution. Digitalisation is a pervasive phenomenon, because of new technologies we communicate differently, we work differently, we live differently. All these changes require an update of all processes and systems surrounding us. New business models are changing the global economy. The development of an information society is based on a capable electronic communications infrastructure. Economic and general development is directly linked to the development of high-quality broadband infrastructure. OECD studies identify a direct link between broadband growth and GDP growth. The positive effects also point to the equitable development of rural areas and the creation of a favourable environment for small and medium-sized enterprises. In New Slovenia, we want Slovenia to become a giant society by 2025. In the construction of optical networks, we want to pursue the European Union's highest objectives, as Internet traffic is increasing exponentially. On the basis of growing needs, however, the private sector should be encouraged to build reliable networks of maximum permeability in a timely manner. In New Slovenia, we support the development of the fifth generation mobile network as it will enable new internet services, including automated driving and transport connectivity, which will enable the development of self-propelled mobility. We are also committed to more active radio spectrum management. In Slovenia, we are still underexploiting the ability of information and communication technology. The already existing ICT capabilities outweigh the actual benefits in people's everyday lives. This has changed to some extent over the last two years due to the epidemic, when we were forced to work from home, for education and for other things to use these modern technologies to a greater extent. Digitalisation of everything and everyone must be time-consuming in line with developments in the global market, and this must also be followed by national legislation. Today we have the first reading of the text of the Law on Electronic Communications. The aim of the law is to regulate the more efficient use of radio spectrum, to promote investment in high-quality and high-quality networks; to ensure the safety of networks and services, including the increased risks posed by 5G technology in providing these networks and services to entities that provide so-called critical services from the point of view of the state and society, to protect consumers and to improve access to services and to protect lives through access to emergency communication numbers. The universal service provides a transmission speed that enables the use of a wide range of services, such as eGovernment, online banking and video calls. Directive (EU) 2018/1972 is implemented in the national legal order. At the end of December 2018, the adopted Directive amends the existing European Union regulatory framework for electronic communications. At the same time, by complying with the provisions of the Directive, it is proposed to improve existing legislation in the workplace when national provisions are concerned or where a clearer and more appropriate way of transposing the provisions of the European Union is possible. At the same time, the section on the safety of networks and services and the operation of hazardous situations also ensures the implementation of the measures contained in the European Union cybersecurity toolkit 5G, which is the result of the joint efforts and accession of the Member States of the European Union, the representatives of the European Union Cyber Security Agency and the European Commission, supported by the Republic of Slovenia. In line with the objectives of the Directive, an additional objective on connectivity is laid down, namely access to and use of very high-powered networks for all citizens and businesses in the European Union. In the area of network building and related infrastructure, the Minister responsible for electronic communications shall be appointed as the operator of the area of public communications network planning and related infrastructure. This aims to simplify the conditions for the construction of public communications networks in spatial acts, reducing construction costs and having a positive impact on the environment. The news is that the obligation to lay a sufficiently capable free cable pipeline does not apply in the case of construction by public means for the construction of a broadband network. However, once these networks are built, all interested users will be able to connect as well as all operators' access to this network. At least every three years, Akos will have to issue a public call to inquire at the intention of investors in order to build, within the time limit set by the Agency and not less than three years, very high-powered networks, whether to upgrade or expand existing networks by allowing a speed of at least 100 megabytes per second. In accordance with the proposal, the Agency will issue a decision on the allocation of radio frequencies for the provision of wireless broadband electronic communications services for 20 years. For other radio frequencies, the duration of the decision shall remain for a maximum of 15 years, except for radio frequencies for air and maritime mobile services issued for an indefinite period of time. No prior authorisation shall be required for the establishment of low-area wireless access points. Public sector persons will have to enable operators to place these accessible points on their physical infrastructure, which is suitable for installation. In the area of the protection of cyber security of 5G networks, which is of strategic importance for Slovenia and the European Union, the operator shall not use a strictly limited range of high-risk supplier equipment provided that they are designated by the Government on the basis of a prior opinion of the National Security Council and on the proposal of the information security authority on the basis of the prescribed procedure and criteria. The safety of networks and services is and will be increasingly important in a digitised society, so security must be as optimal as possible. In New Slovenia we support the proposal for a law aimed at transposition of the directive into the national legal order. We also support the objectives of the law, which go towards greater security, in particular communication networks and services, which are also linked to the establishment of 5G technology. In particular, we need to strengthen the security of all those entities that provide critical services from the point of view of the state and society, which is also relevant in the final stage for national security. The purpose of the law is also to promote the development of electronic communications networks and services in the Republic of Slovenia and thus economic and social development in the country. The widest possible access to high-capacity networks for the widest possible range of citizens and businesses under strict safety conditions is important. In New Slovenia, we are also pleased that users of disabled persons and users with special social needs have been included in the law, while ensuring better protection of rights for all users. It follows from all the above that the Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u38	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Today we have before us the bill on electronic communications. This is a new law that follows, above all, the changes introduced by the European Directive in this area. As the proposaler points out, the legislative objective of the transposition of the directive is also to strengthen security, particularly due to the increased risks posed by 5G technology. The law should also allow for more efficient use of radio spectrum, consumer protection and improved access to services. Among other things, certain provisions also concern the taking over of the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for information security. In the SAB party, we are aware that the deadline for transposition of the directive has already expired and the early implementation of the directive is essential to avoid sanctions by the European Commission. Nevertheless, we cannot go beyond the comments made by the stakeholders. According to them, in some parts the bill is contrary to the directive and even the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Agency for Communications Networks and Services, as an independent regulator, firstly points out that certain provisions of the draft law have a fundamental impact on the competence and independence of its operation. It is an independent body which regulates the functioning of market stakeholders with its powers and, consequently, the operations of companies in majority state ownership. The independence and independence of regulators also underlines the European acquis. In this way, it is intended to prevent the influence of every time political authority in order to achieve partisan interests through the regulator. We have already opposed the establishment of two superagencies in the SAB party in October 2020, bringing together 8 existing independent agencies with a government proposal for rationalisation and demobilization. We opposed it at the time and today we oppose it because we have recognized the intention as an attempt to subdue independent regulators. Today, we are reminded again of this by the Agency for Communications Networks and Services. It is important for the client of the SAB to ensure, in the first place, the quality of the public service by companies owned by the majority of the state. Therefore, supervisory agencies must maintain their independence as they can only ensure that the area for which they are established is subject to adequate supervision. The Agency therefore specifically points out that the law in question is inadequately transposed into the Slovenian legal order by the European Directive and that there is a serious risk that proceedings will be initiated before the European Commission and the Court of Justice of the European Union. The essential comments relate to ensuring technological neutrality, access to the network, ensuring equal treatment, the possibility of verifying the adequacy of wholesale prices and thus ensuring a non-discriminatory approach, and not least to government staffing, but also to the appointment of the Director of the Agency for the smallest errors, for example on the basis of an undefined concept of late issuance of administrative provisions. These are more than 5,000 per year, which are subject to an instructional deadline, i.e. a deadline that is not mandatory and is only recommended. In the SAB party, we want to ensure and establish conditions that will enable the economy to be stable, developmental and sustainable, innovative and digitised in Slovenia and create high-value jobs. Therefore, in the SAB party, we are aware that a strong economy is key to a strong social state, higher wages and higher pensions. In the SAB, we would like to see a law in front of us that would provide a friendly business environment that would enable innovation, entrepreneurship and innovative business models. However, the comments made by the independent regulator, the Agency for Communications Networks and Services, do not inspire us, but they do raise a number of concerns. That is why we will not support the proposal in the SAB party today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mag. Dusan Verbič will present the position of the Group specifically.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament, what a lovely greeting! Today we will have a first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Communications, whose main objective is to transpose the Directive into the national legal order. At the end of December 2018, the Directive on the European Electronic Communications Code was adopted, amending the existing European Union regulatory framework for electronic communications with a deadline for transposition by 21 December 2020. Due to the complexity and scope of all changes, it has been decided to prepare a new system law instead of the amendment to the existing law, which will continue to regulate the conditions for the provision of electronic communications between networks and the provision of electronic communications services. In addition to the transposition of the Directive, the aim of the proposed law is to promote the development of electronic communications networks and services in the Republic of Slovenia and thus economic and social development in the country, including the development of an information society, access to and use of very high-powered networks for all citizens and businesses in the EU. At the same time, the aim is to strengthen security requirements for the provision of networks and services, which will facilitate the use of the services in question as well as the development of the EU internal market and the enforcement of the legitimate interests of all its citizens. The proposed solutions aim to regulate more efficient use of radio spectrum, to promote investment in high-quality and high-quality networks, to ensure network and service safety, including through increased risks posed by 5G technology in providing these networks and services to entities that provide so-called critical services in terms of state and society, to protect consumers and to improve access to services and to protect lives through access to emergency communication numbers. The universal service provides a transmission speed that allows the use of a wide range of services, such as eGovernment, online banking, video calls and the like. Greater network security will also be ensured through the implementation of the EU cyber security toolkit 5G, which is the result of joint efforts and accession by the Member States of the European Union, representatives of the European Union Cyber Security Agency and the European Commission, supported by the Republic of Slovenia. Many decisions are maintained in the law in the same way as some innovations are introduced. Among other things, the paragraph governing the situation shall be supplemented when the contracting authority, in view of the changes in the contractual conditions on the part of the service provider, gives the service provider a favourable terminal equipment back to the service provider. In order to avoid any financial consequences in the form of a monetary penalty due to the delay in the transposition of the directive, it is crucial that the proposal for a law be adopted as soon as possible, and that is why we will also support the draft Law on Electronic Communications in today's first reading in the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Law on Electronic Communications, which was adopted in 2004, transposed into the Slovenian legal order the provisions of the Directive of the European Union which deal substantively with this area. The first national law on electronic communications has comprehensively regulated their regulatory structure, which is still under the umbrella of the law in this area today. The current law lays down, inter alia, the conditions for the provision of electronic communications networks and for the provision of electronic communications services, the provision of universal service, the management of radio spectrum and the use of numerical space. It shall also regulate the rights of users, the conditions of operation of networks and services, the requirements for the protection of the confidentiality of electronic communications; lay down rules for the resolution of disputes between market entities and decide on the competences, organisation and functioning of the Agency for Communications Networks and Services as an independent regulatory authority. A good nine years ago, a new law on electronic communications entered into force, and it transposed into national law the provisions of all directives of the European Union, or from the regulatory framework, this time with changes and reforms. The last novelty of 2017, however, supplemented the law by the transposition of the Directive of the European Union on measures to reduce the costs of setting up high-speed electronic communications networks. These amendments are so extensive that they require the adoption of a new law. At the end of 2018, the European Union Directive on the European Electronic Communications Code entered into force. The deadline for transposition of this Directive into national legislation has been set at two years, which means that it has already expired. The fundamental objective set out by the proposer is therefore to transpose the Directive. This also restores at national level the solutions that have been passed on in the past through the implementation of the four European directives. Furthermore, the proposal pursues the objective of enhancing security, in particular public communications networks and services, also due to the increased risks posed by 5G technology. According to some forecasts, the 5G network is expected to have over a billion and 700 million subscribers by 2025. The technology of the fifth generation has already become widely known among Slovenian users, and more and more devices are emerging on the market that support such technology. Therefore, it is all the more important to provide security for entities which, from the point of view of the state and society, provide so-called critical services which are also of great importance to national security. The adoption of this law will, in particular, implement the strategic measures set out in the European Union cybersecurity toolkit for 5G technology. This set of tools is the result of joint efforts and accession by the Member States of the European Union, representatives of the European Union Cyber Security Agency and the European Commission. This toolkit was also supported by the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal defines the purpose of the law as promoting the development of electronic communications networks and services in the Republic of Slovenia. Their level of development and their level of application are indispensable structural elements of each country's competitive advantages in the global economy, as well as ours. Furthermore, the purpose of the law is to ensure effective competition in the electronic communications market, the effective use of radio spectrum and numbering elements, universal services and the protection of user rights, including users with disabilities and users with special social needs. Special emphasis is thus placed on the care of groups deprived of social status or disability in access to electronic communications and the right to the communication privacy of users of public communications services. The rules on the security of networks and services are being stepped up and strengthened, particularly in the light of the management of the risks posed by new technologies. Members of the Desus Group will support the proposal to conclude that the proposal for an electronic communications law is appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u43	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. I would like to inform you that the current order of the following five Members and Members who have been invited to the debate is shown on the screens in the Chamber. However, the entire order of reported debaters is shown on the website of the National Assembly in the Poimenska list of discussers. During the course of the debate, the order of the panellists declared may change. The first one has the word Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, now, based on what we have presented in our views, we can have a little chat and, above all, discuss more precisely what is what is actually bothering us in this law. The Slovenian public accompanying this debate must know that we are talking about a law that has over 441 pages. It is indeed vast matter and the average citizen does not really understand this law, because he needs to know more if he wants to understand what we expect or what we will achieve with it. Therefore, this is also one of the reasons why it took so long that we could even get a document like this. This term of office has changed. And every authority will see whether such a law, which is in the process, in intersectoral coordination, corresponds to it, and goes to correct it. In my presentation of my position, I made it very clear where serious changes have begun to control this matter. The undeniable fact is that the law needs to be recast and must be aligned with the European Directive, what the Minister said at the outset. But you know, one kind of paradox is that in this law we even have certain provisions that lower the criteria of what the directive provides. I will then go specifically to individual cases and this is a kind of absurdity where this government tries to usurp certain areas in order to better manage them. We want to do this three months before the end of our term? I spoke earlier about how Mr Logar and Mr Pompeo signed and, last but not least, gave a joint statement on what and how they represent electronic devices or, above all, communication and where America sees a serious opportunity here – well, that we will not be making a mockery, since Slovenia is a two million-million-dollar market, it does not pose a serious problem for America. Do you think she's going to make a crazy profit? However, it is an important number of countries. This is very important because of the reference to how many countries approach this story. And of course, the Multicity Group is in this package, where, contrary to our foreign policy strategy – this government is, of course, working against everything that we have written in the strategy, of course, is approaching some different policies. What does this agreement say? I will not torture you with a text that is on the one hand, how they promise, how everything will run with 5G, but what is important for this law and in this debate are four key points where, in fact, Slovenia commits itself to America, what it will actually do. One of the points is whether suppliers of network, hardware and software can be subject to the supervision of foreign governments without an independent judicial judgement. If you take a good look at the law, you'll find this in 115 under 2nd and 3rd, you have a pretty fragmented and written down in your own way and exactly what they've agreed with the Americans. Whether suppliers of network, hardware and software can ensure transparency............................................................................................................................................ ­ ownership, partnerships, corporate governance structures and are subject to legal rules that require transparent management practices. What's that? How will we guarantee or verify this? Only God knows that and this government, of course. So in marriage, of course, they work it out in a number of ways. Are network, hardware and software suppliers committed to innovation and respect for intellectual property rights? Please!? This government will assess who is the innovative and developmental achievement of the 5G criteria and criteria when we have neither standards nor develop any own affairs in this area. But obviously SNAV will be able to assess that. About that a little bit later. And last, can suppliers of network, hardware and software express ethical business practices? America has full ethical and business conduct; yes, but only in one matter of capital or return. Above all, what is most feared or feared is control. Excuse me, everyone is so afraid of the control of a third country, as the law says, in fact. I'm afraid of control from everywhere, including the Americans. I'm getting very, very nervous with my control everywhere and my interference with our sovereignty. And it's on the part of our government, which even allows it! Interestingly, Germany has not signed such a contract. We were in a hurry to sign this and some other European countries. She has no idea how to tie her hands to documents like that! She doesn't come to the point! Because, of course, they look to each other for their own interests. Makes sense. However, they have opened their doors and, of course, the European Commission, which has made recommendations and guidelines, has made it very clear that certain segments, of course, in terms of security, in the area of cyber security will, of course, need to be very clearly defined. We have gone a step further or in a direction where we are not talking about products, but we are just talking about suppliers in general. Here I see a very big problem; a big problem mainly because you know I will talk about names, because this way we will be able to imagine more plasticly. The Telemach company, unlike Telekom, which is not, has already purchased Huaweia’s equipment and products, and this law says that within five years all of this will have to be replaced, as long as it is clear that I will not be able to say that it is risky and so on. So, how do we figure that out? It's also an interesting, sort of way. If we look at how they do it in other countries, for example, the supplier says in this law that the government will be able to exclude the one who will assess it as a risk or a risk. Of course, the word “may” may exist in this law will give him the possibility of some kind of defense to explain and, in fact, to explain that there may be no risks. But this “may” means that there is no need for this to happen, and for the first time, where this party can be in a procedure that will be eliminated ï of course will only be able to seek its right in the Administrative Court, which, by the way, does not decide on the content at all, does not decide on the content at all, and this government knows very well, but only about the procedure, which means that it is automatically excluded from the whole story, already disqualified. Therefore, that provision of Article 22 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia that we must all have the same opportunity to be dealt with before a court is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. But if we go one step further when we talk about a free economic initiative, well, it's really interesting that the right government is doing this, which would like to privatize everything, and in this case it's only interested in who to eliminate. Of course, it is clear that Slovenia here only nods and bows, in fact someone else would like to eliminate someone, we will do it on an operational basis. Personally, I say, and also all those experts who know about this matter very clearly; I will explain very plastically. Let's go to the car, because Slovenia is in love on average, everyone has their own car in Slovenia, and each, especially the male part, has an orgasmic experience of their own success and is shown by car. The car itself, if you buy it, can't be dangerous from the point of view if you give this comparison so, plastic, very simplistic with electronic communications. The problem is somewhere else; the problem is what we're going to install in this car, what software, how we're going to track it, where we're going to monitor it. That's the problem! And Huawei doesn't do what the Americans want to do to me, and so do the Americans. Therefore, suppliers need to be excluded; in order to be cyber-safe and to establish security. And that's the inequality! While certain companies already have companies in the Republic of Slovenia and we will now throw them out of the market in such a fine, simple way through the side door. This is very clearly defined by Articles 115 and 116 of this Act, where we are talking about criteria and criteria. These criteria and criteria, please read carefully what some of them are, the whole page, read them carefully. I'm sorry, to judge this the way this government has conceived by this law, but this falls in every regular court, let alone in the Constitutional Court. Come on, please! Everything nice and right for e-development or what would you call it, but not this way, please! Minister, I know that you inherited this, that the Ministry of Public Administration used to do this, where they actually had to move some of the people, and some of them you chose so that you could even move on. Before that, however, the former government, which had actually coordinated before we even got to the first things. Most of this law, most of it was written two years ago. The consequence of this text is that we have only a few articles, which are radically changed to so many that they are, of course, addressing those issues that are necessary if we are to implement this law. To have order in this area, of course, we must have a very good regulator. The regulator is one of the most important articles, which essentially exercises independent control over operators, over all the topics which, of course, this law deals with. But look at the fragment! The principal city of Akosa is going to someone's freakin' nervous. I have to say, personally, I don't have a lot of pressure from the individuals who are sitting in this place. But do you know when the most dangerous thing is? When the government wants the regulator to implement their policies. Well, that's what I'm afraid of. Then it's over, sweaty doesn't need a regulator anymore, then you make a Directorate within the Ministry and you shut down the regulator, which is it. At least then, legally and legally, what the minister will do to control the regulator. How does he control the regulator? Well, let's go see what they wrote in the article. After the new board of the institution, the Director of this regulator will be relieved. Do you know what that means? Direct interference with regulator procedures as well! This is one way in which you can actually control and regulate the work of one regulator. All regulators in the European Union, in all the Member States of the European Union, are independent and do not need to listen to anything at all, but by law they do the procedures they have set out. It is said that tasks: from control to not least review, analysis of the development of the area itself by the regulator, and ultimately also conducts procedures for the allocation of either frequencies or all those tasks which he has just now – I am speaking by chance because it is one of the tasks of Akosa. And if, of course, we want to drive these kinds of control procedures, then we have to head Akos first, and then we'll do some other control somewhere else, and we'll do the proper procedure. This is, excuse me, far from what we want from Slovenians and Slovenes in our country. Cybersecurity is certainly one of the most important issues of modern times in the 21st century. As many have said at the outset, this is one of the things where our lives are actually running and is actually a driver. It's going to get worse, we're going to be increasingly dependent on these electronic communications, and as far as development is concerned and so on. The market and the fight in this area is enormous. I personally agree that the State is exercising security control, whether we are safe enough to protect our national interest or, ultimately, the rights that come out and the tasks that the State has. Finally, in association with neighbouring countries, especially those with whom we are in a family, I am talking about the European Union and where we have talked about certain agreements on how we will work. But not that way, I'm sorry. That's definitely not the way it is. That's what I'm getting away from. Convince me, amend paragraphs 115 and 116, respect the Constitution and, above all, I count on you to wake up, stop serving one of the countries with the greatest interest in this area. Not because she'll make money with us. Once again, the Republic of Slovenia is a pebble in nothing, in what someone could earn. It's the number of countries. See just one piece of information on how this will look, say Germany, Finland or Slovenia. I'll give you a case. The scope of the review of such infrastructure: in Germany it is only critical infrastructure and the most sensitive component, they have this set. In Finland, the same, only critical and most sensitive components. In Slovenia all components that can potentially be included, which is irrational and does not meet any proportionality criteria. If we look at the criteria and criteria of how they are set in Germany. In Germany they are technically limited to critical safety components; in Finland they have technical, strategic only for critical components. Well, how are we in Slovenia? But we do have technical, strategic and political criteria. Even the political criteria are set, for example, by the country of origin and democracy, if it is a sufficiently democratic state. In short, we put such nebulosis inside for one simple reason: to suit someone so that they can disqualify and exclude one in advance. Why didn't they do it in Finland and Germany? Are they under-examined there? They're underdeveloped, don't they have their own interests? They're not interested in state security? Please don't sell us that kind of pumpkin, come on! Let's open our eyes and wake up to where the real interest is. But I'm sad, you know. You know why? Because I know that after my debate you will convince me that this is not true, how this is all in line with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, how there is no political interest here. Please don't sell us what we can get and see, of course, at the time of electronic networking, how elsewhere this same issue is settled; and this, for example, in the Member States of the European Union, not in third countries. If we go to see who the competent authority is to review the decision-making mechanisms. In Germany it is a federal network agency; in Finland it is a Finnish transport and communication agency. With us – watch out, watch out – who will be there? It will be based on the opinion of the Slovenian National Security Council, which is a consultative and political body. Come on! Is that anything else normal in this country? It seems that the President of the Government is completely burdened with this national security and that he must have everything in his hands, of course, someone who also has political power. And last comparison: legal option and possibility of legal protection. In Germany, a complaint before regular courts, in Finland, an administrative decision to which an appeal can be lodged and a complaint has a suspensive effect. In Slovenia, look at the fraction, the immediate binding decision of the government on the basis of the regulation, which is also legally and constitutionally controversial. Someone said in his presentation that it is time to say what we agree on and what we disagree with. And maybe you can fix it with the amendments. As far as I know this government, and as far as I know this art, I see it in all the legislation that goes through this national council: you are not proposing any change and correction! Not even those proposed by the Legal and Legal Service. I look forward to the debate on the Committee when the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service is drawn up. I hope that you, Minister, will have answers for the Law-Legal Service at that time, and that's very clear because I already think what the Law-Legal Service will write. But, as always, some then like to hide and say, "You know, that's right, the law enforcement service is not bound by the body or their opinion is not binding." Rather, one even generalized the matter and said: “You know, two lawyers, three different opinions. Who would do that now? Yes, we just have to make a decision." And in the end, let's make a political decision. Do we know that? Yeah, it's just political with this government. Minister, at the hearing, I listened very carefully to you and also followed you. You've taken some certain steps that I've even been pleased with. Who really did it, I don't know, but it happened at the time, and that's why you deserve it. This marriage will finally tell you how serious you meant it. I won't judge in advance. I'll wait. But most people make decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm glad at least someone read this marriage very seriously. On Wednesday, Manuel Castells will be 80 years old. You'll tell me what this has to do with this marriage. It's huge. Manuel Castells, a spatial sociologist who has been there for about the end of the 1980s, has put the thesis that we are living in an information society and that we have been living for 30 years. Each company is informational, because without any kind of information exchange society as such does not exist. This law is essentially – Jani showed how fat he is – this law is essentially a carrier in the field of legislation. How many countries in the world is it appropriate to make an aircraft carrier? Who's first on an aircraft carrier - usually with an admiral's act. It's kind of taking time. Beyond what Jani pointed out, if you go brother this material, you know, very nicely writes, quote: “The bill of law no longer foresees the issue of a rule that would determine the categories of consumers who are entitled to special price options » etc. [[…]] “The content is regulated directly in the law On the date of the entry into force of this law, the Digital Broadcasting Act ceases. [[…]] The following regulations, general acts, statuses “are terminated as from the date of the entry into force of this law and are listed here above 40 of the relevant acts of law, in fact 42, and in fact two laws on broadcasting, and of course the previous version of the ZEC. [[…]] Four more directives are included here; these are the oldest, essentially from the beginning of this century 2002. To be honest, I've been dealing with this area for over 30 years. I got my degree from this class, I got my doctorate from this. If I really wanted to deal with this law now, I would probably have to deal with it for at least 10 hours a day with the same law on a saint and Friday, Saturday and Sunday of the following six months. Maybe someone thinks it's pathetic, but it's not. It's basically one of the key laws that you understand the issue of all this. I was running down the hall here, and one of the MPs wanted to stop me, and I said I don't have time, I have something to say to the ZEKs - and I'm not going to tell you which group he's from. He said, "What is that?" Here we are. Let's stop making illusions. Now that I've been thinking about this law, I've actually been thinking that we should finally do something: end the State Council, like it is, make 120 parliamentarians, so that half of us can specialize in aircraft carriers like this. The serious drafting of this law would have resulted in the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space having a subcommittee dealing with it, but instead of having a trillion of some fucking investigative commissions based on a corrupt policy that has not been elected itself, each party would have one Member or a Member and several experts working alone on it. And probably two, three people in our research department of the National Assembly. This would then be serious parliamentaryism, this is what serious parliaments go for. And we're light years from this. And any slightly more complex law – and I will paraphrase the current President of the Government – will somehow become a half-pity; something. Because they're trenches, they're moving, the shareholders are burying themselves. Even in some government that's a lot more democratic. Since we now have, let's be clear, some government: the state, that's me, and usually the enlightened absolut has at least a castle nut, the current President of the Government doesn't actually have it. But you know. And then with some kind of perplexity problem – what? The SNAV told Janez Janša that these are fine, they're not right. In fact, we have a strong China when Russia is weak, when the European Union is weak, even when the US is weak. And also the United States, what the minister himself knows, has fallen asleep on a whole range of technology. Sorry, that's the way it is. In the European Union over the last 30 years, France has been quite lonely, it has been alerting these things, it has been trying to develop some software, some hardware, how successful, how unsuccessful, we let it stand. I know, say, a German liberal, a young man who is one of Germany-China's greatest relations experts and so on. We've talked about these things, too, but if there's house rules, I won't mention it again. Yes, and I kind of agree with Janie here; just because you're relatively small doesn't mean that you can, in some sense -- sorry, colleagues -- politically stupid to bow to one another, to another, to another. You really have to think. And, of course, one of you wanted to make comparisons with cars, either with anything or, if you want, with an industrial revolution, you translate some numbers here. We're increasingly skating into some so-called internet stuff where you'll soon be able to wait almost everything, right? He can do it now. Those of you who are a little bit hung up on cars — I am not — may a more talented high school student stop you in the middle of the highway. Especially those cars that want you to be connected all the time, so that they can check how to go, up and down. If you don't believe me, I don't know, go to YouTube and look. Now, if we're going to the content of some kind of perplexity, that's something that should come to the table, I don't know, at a third of the beginning of a call to the National Assembly, but that there are already some people there when they're preparing that seriously working on it, but not the way that they're trying to do it now. And now I'm not going to read the Levite to the minister like Jani, the fact is that he inherited it, the fact is that it's been happening for too long. The fact is that somehow we do not have a certain relationship in place, as to how professional and policy and a whole range of stakeholders, of course with different interests, should be involved in the preparation of such complex, perplexing materials. Even sometimes, when you have a lot more inclusive government or coalition than this one is currently leaving. Yeah, that was really something that waited for this government, and then this government or grand capo just made up his mind. And yes, there are some critical matters. On this critical issue, which falls on the constitution, if there is no fear there or freedom, if I put it that way, it is also problematic that if I use the vocabulary of the minister of this government, “the third balls of the regulator”. I personally think, some two areas, well, because maybe some agency, someone will say that it is their own intention – and I hope it is not – but there are three, four agencies that should be very strong and have autonomy to the visa of any government, the visa of any policy. One is there on Strossmayer in Maribor, where I will also run for the field of energy, the other is Akos, the third is not, which should be dealing with health care, quality and order, and some others could count. So, too, should somehow depoliticize in this sense of abuse and go in some sense what this body is supposed to be more in Slovenia. It is now kind of done as it is done, but it is, after all, as the Slovenian Consumers' Union points out. You know, we are also in this area, as far as consumer society is concerned, kind of very far behind. We're more out of the joke when you eat something bad, and the waiter comes along — I apologize to the waiters — and he says, "Is it good?" And you nod that it's good. As soon as you have some problems, you may also have some family or other stories about gambling screens and similarly talk about elderly people and personal experiences. Believe me, I have more in this area than my colleague Koražija — with all due respect — fast - paced. Quickly, some obligations to those who simply offer these services are filled with excuses. Even if we take this seriously, now we have these stories, here, the same quota within the coalition, the acquisition of weapons, armored up and down. I've said many times before, we should invest our money so we can wait for an attack from either side. And they had to be able to wait for the electricity distribution system of any of the neighbouring countries. Pika. This should probably be discussed in a closed session, and probably also colleague Breznik here agrees with me, who is just saying this in the SDS. I would have expected that if we had already presided over the Council, I had not heard that these topics would have been opened up to a greater extent there. Now we've got a pandemic – I don't know, the chips are missing, the ones that you're a little bit hung up on cars – that you have to wait four years for certain cars, they say. What are we gonna do here? But no! Something that was prepared is about to be abused, just as this government is doing. And that Pompeo story was also kind of hurtfully pathetic, and it was some swan singing of outgoing politics. Also on the basis of what debate of the legislative body to set the course of foreign policy was signed there, along the beautiful lake along the Alpine peaks. These are all some of the problems around me not to go into any more technical aspects: spectrum, frequency, protection of certain belts and so on, which is also important. It would probably be necessary to read this together with the Media Act, which would have to be adapted to the fact that we live in an information society, including in the face of fiction news and similar stories. But no; let's let the regulator cut our wings and give us in our government rooms some more decision-making power through some, basically even inadequate, organs or abuse of some organs that are intended for other matters. In view of the way that this has been sprinkled, this is not some bat — I apologize to the vegetarians — the deer’s back that I would eat as a messenger. And I definitely cannot support such a law because of these contentious issues, but somehow I am aware, yes; that in this area, as well as in those mentioned, when I spoke, what powerful autonomous agencies should have, there is a policy of a lot of work, a lot of challenges in the next decade, and also some serious reflection of the existence of one, by the number of inhabitants and by the territory of a small country in complicated geostrategic political conflicts. You know, with Slovenia comparable countries, there are some of them, they have very high-quality institutes; they are even called: institutes dealing with smaller countries. Now let's leave the methodology for how to define this. Nor do you want to bow down to the United States of America, nor do you want to bow down to a certain Chinese company, because if you get to know yourself a little bit from what has been said today, you can see very quickly who is being half-picked to some extent and who is not. In fact, there is no real way and, in particular, there is no right way to – how much? – 80 or 79 days before the elections, somehow trying this material on the hook, with some controversial articles to resolve and at the same time then again somehow as an excuse – we will pay some penalty. How much money has been scattered through a window in this country, and sometimes it is also possible to pay a fine to make you happy, even if you drive too fast and in some of these cases. I'm going to end up with something that's gonna make me harder on the future if that's what I'm going to be given. There are laws in constitutional parliamentary democracy. Not ruled by Janez Janša, not ruled by a colleague of Montenegro, not by me, not by Suki, ruled by laws. Parliaments are those spaces and Members and Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, we are those responsible people who should aspire to optimal legislation. What's on the table here isn't. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Andrey Chernigoy has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u48	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We all know that we are living in a time of the digital revolution, we can say, at the time of the fifth generation, that the sixth generation is already very much knocking on our door. We live in a time where we are digital, including revolution, digitisation, monitoring and surrounding at every step and without which we can no longer imagine our own lives. We are all aware that new business models are changing the global economy and we cannot escape it, we cannot hide and we cannot escape it. In Novi Slovenije - Christian Democrats we want Slovenia to become a giant society by 2025. Here we can also go thanking Minister Mark Boris Andrijani, who has made such great moves in such a short time. It also shows how much more needs to be done in this area. My predecessor showed how extensive this law is, he showed what it would be like to say, in a hard core form, I'm going to show at the time of today's society, there's 400 pages in here for me. Just a little bit of time so young people can imagine it. I am pleased that many of these laws will comply with the European Directive. On the other hand, I am sad when I look at the hall, I believe that many of my colleagues and colleagues are watching this on TV, but there are few of us fighting in the hall. Perhaps this is also the first indication that this law is good, that this marriage does not have many bad qualities, because if not, my colleagues and colleagues would be hardening here on the other side. This, too, shows me the agenda of the debaters, who are shrinking very much from minute to minute, and I think there are less than a dozen of us. It is said, Minister, that in such a short time you have prepared such a good marriage. But we're going in the right order. I would like to divide my debate into two parts, and we must be aware that at times the changes could have been at a century-old level, then this development started to develop, they became changes at a 10-year level. I also felt this perhaps in the age of computer science, changes at the annual level, but now we can see changes on the daily basis. And by the legislator, what we are in this esteemed hall, it is impossible to follow this progress in such a rapid gallop and the first thing we have to admit here is that it is very difficult to follow this progress by law. This makes it very difficult for me to understand some of the words of my predecessors who would like to sit down a little while longer, to discuss this, of course, in the circle around Najevna Lipa, to do another study, to pay someone, and then to do nothing, which we have already achieved here many times in the past. Only if we look at history, a little look at the following, can we find out that the Ministry of Public Administration has prepared a proposal for a law already in 2019. At that time, a public debate was also launched with a preliminary round of opinions; this is said to have followed the public publication of the bill on the E-Democracy 28 portal. 8. 2020 and the second time 14. 4. 2021. It is said that there was no discussion that there was no possibility of an opinion. From the data I have here, I believe that all of this has been enabled, of course you can convince me otherwise. Finally, here again I would like to commend the Minister himself that all the documentation, all the material with all the stakeholders, was led at the beginning by the Ministry of Public Administration and only this transfer took place with 1. 1. 2022. This is said to be the case with the Minister in less than one month, which is also commendable. As far as transfiguration is concerned. I listened very well to my predecessors – I may have made a mistake, but I think my colleague Möderndorfer understood very well when he said that this whole process was already going on in the past. That this whole documentation, which is very extensive, which it has also shown, has changed very little since before. That is to say, my esteemed colleagues and colleagues on the other hand, that you did not have time to process the matter, that you were not familiar with the matter itself, cannot be true. And these corrections were essentially very few. Of course, it goes on to say that these repairs are small, the repairs are crucial to him, but if there are few, then you can process them quickly, at least that's how I understood him. That is to say, all the arguments: too little time, lack of knowledge of matter here fades away, is not there, or is just misdirection and ignorance. Then, in this modern time, even if we do not agree on everything in this esteemed congregation, in modern society, at least according to my personal behavior, it is good, even welcome, because this means, not least, democracy. Otherwise, when you were able to think in uniform, there were perhaps a little different times, some of which you probably remember, the previous system. Here I would like to stress and commend that all European directives are trying to update themselves in some way with the time that Slovenia will also become a giant society by 2025. The law itself intervenes very precisely in a number of matters, encourages connectivity and the use of very high-performance networks, facilitates consumers from now on the replacement of the service provider, as the replacement of the provider for the end-user will be free of charge. Price access is provided for broadband access to the Internet, which will allow the use of a wide range of services such as online banking, eGovernment services, video calls to all consumers, regardless of their location and income, a system of public information or alarms will be established by sending country warnings to their mobile phones in the event of a natural disaster or other emergency, in their area we will be able to save people's lives. These are acquisitions that we personally and also support in New Slovenia, and these acquisitions are not over, but continue. Operators will be provided with greater regulatory predictability and consequently greater security, in particular in 5G connectivity, enhanced security of communication networks and services with a set of EU cyber security tools and more and could be counted. The law itself, which has many articles, could be divided into providing access to and use of very high networks for all citizens and businesses in the European Union, then we have a larger security network and services, from 113th to 124th Articles, more rights for users, from 183rd Articles to 209th Articles, and also could be listed. The marriage is very extensive, but I think it's about time we accepted it. Why? Because in this area it goes very quickly past us, and I think we can't afford such a thing as a serious country. I listened very well to previous debaters, and they did not go in very deep into matter, especially a lot of ballast, which was very obedient, perhaps even teaching for a class in a classroom, and there was little content, and there was a lot of intimidation. Nor can we accept that somehow the opposition accuses us that the current coalition wants to usurp this area, that we will now usurp this area before the elections and then, after the elections, we will adopt it. Here I have even noticed a hint of the prediction that the current coalition can succeed, win the next election, and this would be the biggest – as it might say – gap in the second part of the hall: what if So thank you for this compliment to see in us a serious partner who can also win the next election. [[…]] We also advocate in this law for more active radio spectrum management. I am the only one who, in this mandate of this esteemed national council, proposed a change to the media code, that is to say, I proposed an amendment to Article 77, and here was adopted an amendment with a large majority and no vote against where local radio status allowed to apply for the DAB+ network and here was taken a big step forward so that some small radio stations with additional status were not limited in the start and excluded in further steps towards the development of new technologies. You know, I come alone from the area of Illyrian Bistrica, which is close to the border, where radio signals from Croatian and Italian networks are covered, where at home when I open the radio, I listen more to Italian programs and learn Italian or Croatian than Slovenian. If I would like to listen to a very well-known speaker on Radio 1 in the morning, I can't do it in my car on my way to Ljubljana, because I am more or less listening to Italian programs and this DAB+ is solving what I am extremely grateful for, once again, that you have supported this to such a large extent in the National Assembly itself. Finally, I would like to commend the Minister and, of course, I will vote for this and look forward to further discussions, this is the goal of New Slovenia - Christian Democrats, to become a giant society by 2025 Slovenia. In the construction of optical networks, we want to pursue the European Union's highest objectives, as Internet traffic is increasing exponentially and, on the basis of increasing needs, we need to encourage the private sector to build reliable networks of maximum permeability in a timely manner. As for the rest of you, maybe I'll come up with something else next time. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Replica, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u50	Thank you. Even though I'm not part of the coalition, I must first step into the Defense Minister. Comrade Montenegro, don't be a fool from the Minister himself. A month ago, a man forged this marriage, and now you're talking like he's been working on it for at least a decade. As for the lectures and not the lectures up and down. The task of Members is not to quote you, “I could list”. [[…]] We're not counters, we need to read matter, understand it, and talk about it. But then I'll be able to talk about it in a meaningful way when someone on your side who really will read it understands. If Nova Slovenija is in the next call of the National Assembly, I hope you will come from this stage, that you are not trolling the beans, which you read from your computer or what your experts prepare. Just for a little while. You fuck me, I fuck you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Rudy Bear has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u52	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the beginning, the Minister correctly assessed the length of this law to the National Assembly. Yeah, it was a long one. Too long. Of course he didn't say why. He didn't say why. In fact, when I left the Ministry of Public Administration in March 2020, this law was practically written, more or less harmonised. Then what happened? It's like my friend Chernigoy said, and then they got a little seat. What happened in 2020 until the end of 2020, when, somehow, this is understandable, the law was still drinking and completing, but this was still in 2020. Then came threats to sanctions from the European Union due to the non-implementation of the European Directive. Then, to the best of my knowledge, the President of the Government ordered that this law should be adopted in the Government by 30 June 2021. And that's what happened. As far as I know, it was even so that things were still changing in it, even on the way from the government boards to the government, but it doesn't really matter. At that time, the law was practically harmonised and adopted in the Government. Now, then, what happened to him, that we are on the verge of being practically in the pre-appeal process, perhaps we do not need to stress what this means. It goes here in these cases for millions of fines. Given that I have been somehow familiar with this law all along, I would not have been able to object to it, since it practically summed up the solutions that we have negotiated with many stakeholders both within the Ministry itself, inter-sectorally and also with external stakeholders. But of course, something happens to this government all the time: at the last minute, there are other things coming into the bill proposals. In this case, actually, if we look at the scale, the minimum, but that's why it's so much more important. And that is why, of course, we are discussing the disruptive elements of the law, which is more or less actually acceptable on the basis of which there are no major objections to it. On the security aspect or the determination of a high-risk provider, this was explained by colleague Möderndorfer in plastic and detail, and it is true that when this working material was practically done, this area was not yet in the draft law itself. In fact, just before that, the Government had established the Information Security Authority and this Administration was obliged to process this aspect and to supplement the law accordingly on the basis of its professional findings. But I tell you that you will, not really you, but that the future government will have problems because of this law if it is adopted in such a form. Let me immediately say that, of course, I'm not some lawyer to Principal Akosa, because maybe someone knows that we've actually been in some things pretty much everyone, and I could say that we were in our hair once. So it's not about defending Director Acosta now. But I'm talking about the very institution of the agency. As far as I am aware, the Communications Networks Directorate of the European Commission has already raised its eyebrows due to these provisions on the conditions for the discharge of Director or Director Akos, however, whoever it is, since no one is forever there. I can tell you that the Communications Networks Directorate is extremely sensitive in this area and that after a few public statements or criticisms at the expense of Director Akosa, I quickly received a call from Brussels and also as Minister had to defend myself to interfere with the independence and independence of the Agency. But I did not intervene, nor did I speak of the politics or tasks of Akos himself, but it was a matter of principle. Such a sensitive area is this, this independence, the autonomy of the agency, and believe that this provision in the law to resolve the Director if Akos does not decide within the prescribed time limits, will not go through. It won't go through. He won't. And of course the future government will have problems, because you will not have them. This law cannot be adopted before April anyway. We all know that. Speaking of which, it will take a long time, but it will take some time, because a three-month notification is under way and it is not possible to adopt the law in the National Assembly at that time. Where are these two years now, unfortunately, late because last year we could safely put this law under the roof, but now we're here and we're just gonna have to wait a little longer. Whether it is possible to accept this in April or not, I don't know, but in any case, because of these threats with sanctions, something has to be done, because if the law is not adopted in this mandate, we know what that means. Don't you? It means everything new, means more – what? Six months or one year. And that's when they're going to rain these millions of fines. Therefore, we will certainly try to convince you, in the course of this procedure, to change certain things in this law in order to go through this law, because otherwise it will actually go to the detriment of the State and to the detriment of, of course, the budget. There's something else I'd like to remind you of. As I have mentioned, it has never occurred to me, whether it is possible or far-sighted, for example, between me as Minister of the then and Director of the Akos agency, that in the meantime I would propose a change in the law in terms of changing the criteria or changing the discharge procedure of the Director or Director. This, of course, will also be the case with the Directorate for Communications Networks in Brussels. In order for the Director or Director to resolve what the Council of Acosta has done, it will not go through. You know, in the past, I think that in 2019, if I am not mistaken, the Council of Akosa proposed the discharge of Director Akosa. He made a proposal, you know, but the proposal was on such torn legs, on such torn legs, so badly prepared that I didn't send him to the government at all. Because we knew precisely that if the Government trusted the Council, and also accepted it, of course, it would get into a lot of trouble because it was simply too weak and insufficiently prepared. But it did not occur to anyone at that time to change the whole procedure and to have the Council discharge the Director or the Director on its own. Look, whatever the members of this world will be called in the future, and the members of this world, and many others, you know that he always has, at least far away, his fingers in politics. This is all perfectly clear and, of course, in such situations, the Council can react fully politically and resolve the Director or Director, which, of course, causes additional problems again. I remind you of this watchful eye, which in this area, as far as autonomy, independence of the regulator is concerned, does indeed monitor you continuously and you know that in such cases sanctions may also be quite painful. That is why I think it is wise for these things to be cleared of the bill and for the time being, to remain the case as regards the appointment or the reasons for the resolution as it is. Yeah, it's a long way, it's really hard, even if it turns out that in any case there's a need for a replacement, but this path has to be with some professional basis, the decision has to be professional, and of course it's not political. So do, Minister, who, of course, is now the bearer of this law, which is a paradox, in marriage is still the bearer of the Ministry of Public Administration. This could be changed in the meantime, however, if the strategic view of this government was such that at first it was strategically aware that it would create this job for digitisation, or that it was just one glimpse one afternoon, and someone remembered whether it was a job and it was, but now we have a mix-up under the Government Act. Of course, there is confusion and this must also be corrected in the law, because it cannot be the Ministry of Public Administration, despite the fact that it has brought the law to the threshold of Parliament, it cannot now be the institution if the law says otherwise.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, the Secretary-General! Today, the minister began this session, or this legislative path of this law, with great pride and optimism. I did, as he mentioned, think it's a holiday today, but if you look at the contents of this marriage, what you'll soon find is not the case. Today, this debate in this National Assembly also points to all of this, and when my colleague Chernigoj said today that there was a lack of a greater debate between Members and Members, I am also joining him here. Yes, of course, as if I were on the other side as a coalition member, it would be extremely difficult to defend such a law that we have today on the table, because as many comments as we have received, you ask yourself, and really then you start to deepen into the matter and what you will soon find that all these arguments, which are essentially cited by all stakeholders, are very much in place. Of course, the coalition Members are having a hard time defending this story too, or my colleague will say a few things from this point of view. Mr Chernigoj, a colleague, also began with the adoption of this basic law. The basic law was adopted in 2012, followed by two less difficult amendments, in 2013 and 2015, and most importantly, in 2017, a large-scale novelty was adopted by a colleague who was not in the National Assembly to transpose the directive with a view to introducing measures that would help to reduce the costs of building high-speed communications networks. The Act also regulated the scope of the control and processing of personal data and the protection of private and electronic communications, addressed inconsistencies regarding the delimitation of powers between Akos and the Broadcasting Council in the process of assigning radio frequencies, and resolved the increase in the powers of the Board of the Agency. However, we have already warned the Social Democrats that, in order to avoid the possible threats to the European Commission due to the untransmitted directive, we must not ignore those solutions that are not linked to the transposition of the directive, but have brought more disagreements between the professional and the interested public, which would result in more disagreements and solutions. In addition, it wished to point out that in 2014 the Constitutional Court repealed quite one whole chapter relating to data storage and decided that all the data obtained under then Article 163 of the Law must be destroyed without delay. So much for that first part. The law, as we have found, is very extensive for those who have looked at it and read it, 414 pages of hard reading both by content and by terminology, followed by certain rules. At the end of the day, I am still reading this issue in hard form, in printed form, because it is only easier for me to examine the whole matter, some colleagues are already using this media communication, but at the end of the day I have to look very carefully, and I must say that I have looked at this very carefully. At the same time, I have been stabbed with the most of these comments they have made, but I will not list all these comments today. I will only touch on the Agency for Communications Networks and Services in the Republic of Slovenia, which has warned us that both the Government and all other stakeholders have been addressed by two broad explanations that the draft law under consideration contains individual provisions which the Agency has not been informed of, although these provisions have fundamentally prejudiced the competence and independence of their operation. I think that this way of serving the adoption of legislation in the National Assembly is very well remembered, especially in this government, because there is one content in coordination, and everything else comes into the procedure – as we have already said in the PKP laws – we have a set-up and we can talk about it almost here. However, the Authority explains that as a regulatory authority, the measures it adopts affect the functioning of several markets and stakeholders which are majority owned by the State. The Agency must be an independent regulatory body with the requirements of the European acquis, and independence and independence are essential and the law, in accordance with the European Law on Electronic Communications and other rules. Therefore, Minister, as I stated in my presentation on the position of the Group of Members, I once again ask: Is the law in line with European rules? Because the independence of the regulator by the European Commission is strictly required prior to the implementation of individual parts into national legal order. Why am I pointing to this subject? Because, as Slovenia has already said, we can be punished if we do not implement the directives, but we are also affected by penalties when we are misimplementing the directive in our legal order. And yes, violations in this legal order, if breached, amount to dizzying amounts, daily thousands of euros for each day of the infringement, and the penalty depends on the severity of the infringement. So once again — where are we? Does the proposed law follow the technical notification procedure with the European Commission? It would also touch on this independence and this appointment of Director. The Board of the Institute will immediately dismiss the Director. I don't know, we forget that regulators are independent and independent, and I really have big problems here. I would also like to point out that, while it will be interesting to hear or read the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, we are also reminded of this by the Comparative Law Institute, whether the law you are proposing is in accordance with the Constitution. For in terms of procedural guarantees, procedures, designations of suppliers with high risk, in particular in terms of equal protection of rights, a great question is asked. Also from the point of view of entrepreneurship or free economic society, which we have recently talked about extremely much, as well as the principle of general equality. In fact, there are a number of problems or notes in this law, and the question is really where we are. Will we not do more damage than is necessary by adopting this law? In this place, I would still touch or have a question for the Minister. In view of the fact that in the general state of the Electronic Communications Sector in the Republic of Slovenia, in 2019, household coverage by households with electronic communications technologies in rural areas, where 59.7 per cent is achieved, which is 7.4 per cent better than the average of the European Union, I am really interested in where this data comes from. Because I care, I know the Pohorje area, a huge area in Pohorje, a part of the village Smolnik, Šumik, all the way to the Top of the River, these are completely undetected areas with a signal. If I didn't talk about Gorenjska, Dolenjska, I don't know that much, I know that, and that would be really interesting to hear, because, according to my opinion, we are facing not as good data as are shown. But if they are, I'd like to know where they came from. I absolutely can't support this law. Once again, it will be very interesting to read the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. I will not only say whether the law is in conformity with the directives, but whether the law is in conformity with the Constitution, because it is extremely important. We ourselves know that if this law comes any further, that it will receive sufficient support today, and once again, the question arises to me whether it will be possible to bring it into line with our legal order and the directive accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u55	Thank you, too. Janez Moškrič has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u56	Nice greetings to all present. Thank you so much for saying that. Somehow we could start with the basic theme of this legislation, that technology must be in the service of man and is a man in the service of technology and, of course, that the only constant is changes in our lives. It was already established in 2019 or before that government had not been able to regulate it most meaningfully with the new law. Because the area of security in communications technologies was also a fast-track area in the European Union and the Directives already in force by the previous law, the law in force, were extensive. Therefore, today's debate, which is purely political, may not be necessary, since in these days the third or fourth law, where a broader preliminary debate was required before we came to a committee where experts can also participate, is always the result of our political consultations, if I may say so, whether the law was already ready before this government or is so good that it is consistent with the general public. In this extensive law today, however, the main focus is on so-called security, which is introduced mainly in terms of how the state must ensure the safe communication of citizens. Because technology is always ahead of the country. Large corporations producing components, both technological equipment and electronic equipment in terms of hardware, software, are always in front of those who are supposed to oversee it. If we know what is at home, when we want to give children the opportunity to use these technologies and there are certain elements to how to prevent something from happening to children, it is always good if we check for ourselves. And so it is in the sense of the country; it is said that technology is set, standards should also be set at the level of the European Union. However, for its complete sovereignty in this area of cybersecurity, the State must also ensure its actions. And that's what's at stake for some. It is interesting that some, in my opinion, have succumbed to the belief of a large society that they will now withdraw and that they will have to leave the Slovenian market because of this legislation. If they leave the Slovenian market for their actions, they will leave the entire European market. This is probably not in their interest, nor is it in Europe's interest. However, it will be necessary to make changes, especially in terms of the transparency of technology, what we can do, what we must do, what we must do. The State of Slovenia allows and encourages the full implementation of high technology, while, as a country, we are aware that we are vulnerable in this area, because someone can only know how it has been, we have had a debate earlier on this topic when someone remotely from another country, third countries, fixes the parameters on, say, the water system. [[…]] Thank God that's when someone noticed? Man. Physically in Florida or wherever it was, an operator, that supervisor, maybe a janitor, said something was changing there. Well, so it's about as easy to say, classically and plastically, in this case. It is not at all political control, but it is the responsibility of the State; it is the responsibility of the State to its sovereignty that all technology that exists can also have levers and proper mechanisms. Nothing else. However, this government has proven itself in terms of promoting competition. So much competitiveness that it has raised, so much encouragement in the economic field, has not been done in years and years. We're hearing from the Ambassador of Doctor Professor, that the law must rule. Look, the law, if people don't respect it, if governments don't execute it, is a dead letter on paper. My friend Chernigoy would say, "Electronic recording on the media." The law provides a basis for us, citizens. But when it comes to security law, let's say it's the government that's doing it. We always go around in circles: marriage, not legal, government, decrees. The foundation for the government is the law. And after the law has been adopted democratically, then the government has all the levers and must implement it. Then it is not a matter of authoritarian rule, but it is based on the basic criteria prescribed by the law. We do not know what lies ahead in this area, nor what Europe will do. We are at the point when Europe speaks every day, cyber security is currently the most important security. Infantry attack, thank God, I hope he'll never be in the world again. But it could be cybernetic in a second. This is only when Europe, which part we are, and Slovenia must be protected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u57	Thank you, too. It's Matthew the Widow, but I can see she's not in the hall. The word is Tadej Shuštar Zalar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. In Novi Slovenija we have always followed the progress, the view forward, the burden on people and, of course, the simplification of procedures. I am pleased that we have just taken over the work of the Government for Digitalisation and have received the first digitisation minister, Mark Boris Andrijanic. Having a minister who deals exclusively with digitalisation, technology and, of course, simplifying procedures is a major step towards developed countries. Successes after a good half-year of operation of our minister have been seen since Slovenia is making progress on the digital literacy scales. One step forward is the Law on Electronic Communications, which we are talking about today. Members of the Electronic Communications Operators Section of the Association for Informatics and Telecommunications at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia have actively cooperated and submitted reasoned proposals and comments from the beginning. They found that some minimum changes to the text of the law were still needed to help track Slovenia's objectives in the transition to a digital society. The changes relate mainly to eliminating legal uncertainty and harmonising with European law, and otherwise most of their proposals have already been taken into account. The main objectives of the draft law are to transpose the European Union Directive into the national legal order with which Slovenia is already late. At the same time, the bill aims to enhance security, in particular public communications networks and services, mainly due to the increased risks posed by 5G technology, in particular in providing that entity with so-called critical services from the point of view of the state and society, which is also relevant for national security. The purpose of this law is also to ensure effective competition in the electronic communications market, the effective use of radio spectrum and numbering elements, universal services and the protection of users' rights, including users with disabilities and users with special social needs, and the right to communication privacy of users of public communications, as well as enhanced rules on the security of networks and services, including in the light of the management of the risks posed by new technologies. On this point, let me just remind you that it is the Christian Democrat Lois Peterle who deserves to see the European Union accept that there is no roaming in the Member States, and that all people within the European Union can be called at the rate applicable in each Member State. We live in a dynamic environment that changes all the time, so our safety is not self-evident. Modern threats do not know national borders. If, a few decades ago, the security of the state has only been linked to wars, to conflicts and internal security to terrorism and other asymmetric threats, this has changed significantly. Wars, instability in our neighborhood, strategic neighborhood, and the international environment have become hybrid and have an impact on our security. Terrorism, cyber attacks, mass illegal migration. We believe that the sources of instability and threats are best addressed at their source, as this is most effective. Therefore, Slovenia will continue to ensure and maintain peace in the world by participating in international operations and missions under the auspices of the UN, NATO and the European Union. In the field of digitisation and electronic communication, much more could be done in Slovenia and the adoption of this law is one step closer to progress in digital literacy, which is why I personally support and will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, it is an extremely complex content, which, normally, also took a lot of time to coordinate with all stakeholders, and I believe that if we let the law, as we say, go to another reading, that there will also be opportunities for shortcomings – those who have been presented by the opposition in an corrective manner by the opposition, that these shortcomings will also be overshadowed on the committee responsible, and that we will also address them as necessary. With regard to the implementation of the European secondary legal order in our legal order, colleague Rudy Medved pointed out this, he already knows what it means if we don't do it, what awaits us. But I'm glad that we're in this area, and now I'm going to say, digital economies and digital society, we made a significant move a few months ago. In New Slovenia we would like to, and at the beginning of the mandate we have proposed that one of the working bodies of this National Assembly should also be a committee for the digital economy and digital society, which is what they call it in the Bundestag. I was thrilled to see the chairman of this committee run a delegation of friendships with Germany to the Bundestag, and the president said, inter alia, that when they appointed this committee as the new working body of the Bundestag, they did not really know what the field of action would be, which would be the responsibility of this committee. Despite these powers, they built up and said that it was one of the most important movements. I am counting on the appropriate political will to be in the next 9th National Assembly in IX. a reference to the National Assembly, as well as the establishment of such a working body with us in the National Assembly. If I turn back a little bit longer, I also agree with those who say that Europe is slow. Of course she's slow. Europe is slow. And then, of course, clearly, Slovenia cannot beat either on the left or on the right. He was President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, I think this was May 2010, which is said to have been for 12 years when he announced the so-called digital agenda. What has been left in my memory since then, he has been talking about ICT experts, pointing to a single curve in the need for ICT experts in the European Union at his presentation. When I made an extrapolation for Slovenia, I realized that by 2016 – 2016! – in Slovenia we needed an additional 3 000 600 ICT experts if we want to actually bring this digital agenda to life. Let me make this simple. This had seven objectives: to take advantage of the benefits of the digital age with the new single market, to improve certain standards in ICT and interoperability, to strengthen trust and security, to make a very important chapter, to improve the access of European citizens to fast and ultra-fast internet, to promote research and investment in the most modern ICTs, to digital literacy and to accessible online services for all European citizens. For all European citizens. I am pleased and grateful to the Minister for having concrete solutions in this area, which have in fact already fallen apart in the National Assembly and beyond, to take advantage of the potential of ICT for the benefit of society. This is now some European framework that we must first understand. This European framework also publishes the digital economy and digital society index every year. I am pleased that we have made a significant leap in Slovenia in 2021 and that Slovenia has made significant progress in this area, in the area of DESI index, which has turned to 13th place, which is the highest place ever. Fresh data from the DESI index, i.e. the Digital Economy Index and company 2021, reveal that our work has produced fruit in recent years. I'm not saying it's just the work of this government, not at all, it's a long run. Slovenia, in a joint ranking of the index measuring the digital progress of the Member States, gained three seats from last year and progressed, as I said, to a total of 13th place among the 27th Member States. I will support this law, or today we will not vote on the law, but on the conclusion that it is suitable for further consideration, I will vote in favour and then hope for such constructive professional discussions where the committee, these are my expectations, will invite various experts to help us Members to improve the law. I now assess that it is appropriate to put in a lot of work, a lot of coordination, and I wish him a happy journey to the final reception in the National Assembly. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Boštjan Koražija has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u62	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Very fast. I have mentioned this problem of white foxes in Slovenia before, it is called uncovered areas with broadband, and one of the most problematic areas is Haloze. I am interested because I know that 2020 was essentially a call for proposals at the Ministry of Public Administration, but the problem was that, in fact, that money, because the municipalities had already organised themselves and tried to arrange things on their own, was then the terms of the call were so modified or changed that, in fact, after they had applied, they did not have to come or get such a amount of money in case they wanted to build this broadband internet themselves. And there is an even greater problem that, in fact, the ministry or the government has actually divided the halo part into a commercial and non-commercial part. It's kind of illogical, actually. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u63	Sorry, time's up. Anya Bah Žibert has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Well, there's actually a new law ahead of us, because the fact is that we replace ZKOM-1 with a new text, and because the changes that were needed to that extent were, in fact, a new law on the table today, and this is ZKOM-2. It is true that this is primarily about the transposition of the EU Directive, but this Directive, respected, is already in 2018. Therefore, there would be no problem and no obstacle to the preparation of ZKOM-2 by the previous government, the real government of Marjan Sarca. She had every opportunity to do that. Today, this law has been drafted by the government of Janez Janša, the real ministry responsible for digitisation, has concluded and more than necessary solutions are needed in this bill. First of all, I have already stated that this is a transposition of the directive. Indeed, somehow by the end of 2020, the matter should have been resolved, but it has not been and, of course, could be harmful to us even before the European Court of Justice, so it is essential that we adopt this law today. The law has different solutions, I've already told you, which are all necessary and also useful. For the sake of citizens and citizens accompanying us, however, it might be possible to say that we can talk about really encouraging numbers about Slovenia and the coverage of areas with the LTE network. In 2019, the coverage rate of mobile LTE areas was 99.5%. This is a percentage that ranks us at the very top of Europe, and this is positive. However, it is true that the LTE network has already been given a baby if we can say so.We are already coming to the painting of another network, which will be very important that it will also in some way be managed in a way that will ensure that citizens and citizens are as secure as possible. Because the fact is, somehow, we still know how to use these systems that have developed quickly over the years, but we can't protect ourselves from them. And it will also allow citizens and citizens, as well as the economy, to be protected in some way from the weaknesses that modern technology also brings. I'm sorry. Unfortunately, it is, as it has advantages on one side, but it is important to know that it has more advantages than weaknesses. We will try to reduce these weaknesses by this law as much as possible, and we will not be able to get rid of them. The fact is also that what my colleague Horvat explained is that we have problems with education for IT systems. We're running out of footage here. We have also discussed these issues in the past in Knovs how difficult it is to get a really good staff that could also help in this area. I'm worried about something. The share of coverage of Slovenian households with electronic communications technologies of the so-called next generation is above the EU average, but was only 59.7% in rural areas. This, as far as Slovenian coverage is concerned, is a matter of consumption, a little too low data. And here are the areas that are in some way least developed in Slovenia, and you can see this manka here. However, as I said before, we are here for 7.4 percentage points above the average of Europe, and that is essential. In fact, what does marriage do when I take six points? For the first time, as has been said, the transposition of the directive; for the second time, the increased security of public communications networks and services, in particular, as I have already said, is due to the increased risks posed by 5G technology. Thirdly, the development of electronic communications networks and services in the Republic of Slovenia. This will make it possible for the economy and society as a whole to be more inclusive as regards the development of the information society. Fourthly, access to and use of highly capable networks for all citizens in EU businesses. Fifthly, ensuring effective competition in the electronic communications market. And six times, ensuring the right to the communication privacy of users of public communications services. And somehow a seventh point, reinforced rules on the provision of network and service security. Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken at several points about security, network security and services, and this seems crucial. As we say, citizens like to use, as well as Slovenian citizens – the information I have said, with percentages, shows that we are moving as fast as possible and using technology. However, we do not know how to protect ourselves that much or that is in some way impossible. And that's the kind of law that's going to make it go away, more than necessary. Today all those against this law, I seriously ask, remember when we spoke in this national assembly to make the application a healthy obligation. What a noise! Such a noise that it will invade privacy, that people will be controlled, that they will be watched, where they are, that they will see what they are doing and so on. Today, when we have a law before us that further regulates these matters, it is said, security risks, but some doubt that they will accept it. I'm different here. I just believe in this marriage. I also listened very much to the initiator, the minister in this area, who said that they had held a broader debate for different stakeholders to this end. These important things have also been taken into account, and this also makes it clear if you have looked at the law. It is said that one is this breadth, and the other is that it is the first to be dealt with and that another to be considered and then to be followed, and it will still be possible that if there are any matters that still need to be regulated, regulated or otherwise possibly changed, this can be done on the committee itself. So I welcome this effort, I welcome the fact that we have this bill on the table today, and I also hope that it will be given a green light for the second reading and that it will only prevail that the solutions contained therein are essential and that they bring benefits and, of course, help to both citizens and the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u65	Thank you, too. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government gets the floor. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u66	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, distinguished Members! First of all, let me sincerely thank you for all the comments and comments made. I will continue to try to respond to most of them, but we will certainly debate all of them professionally and thoroughly within the government service and reconsider and, if necessary, I can say, even after discussions with the European Commission, we will also include them in a further version or during the proposed amendments to this proposal. In short, I'm in favour of dialogue, so our doors are always open both to you and to the other key stakeholders. I myself am trying to make it as broad, as reasoned and as comprehensive a debate as possible, so that it does not hold that we want to adopt a law on the nose that is clearly systemic and that requires a strong and comprehensive approach. That is why we have proposed a regular procedure and not a reduced or urgent procedure. Such a debate must, of course, take place in this national assembly, so that no one is driving you anywhere. Another time. Let me say that we have taken into account the preparation and very long public hearings of a large majority of all comments and comments made by all possible stakeholders. But we didn't pay attention to all of them. That's right. But that's one simple reason. See, the comments of operators on one side and the Consumer Union on the other side are contradictory, so it is not possible to take into account everything because there were a lot of conflicting comments between them, so it required careful weighting of all the interests of the stakeholders involved. Let me further say that, as far as the security parts of this proposal are concerned by the law relating primarily to network security, here, of course, I am talking about 115th and 116th Articles, these provisions are nothing new but special. These provisions are easily transposed into the Slovenian legal order measures which are fully harmonised at the level of the European Union. These are measures from a set of tools fully coordinated by the Member States, together with the European Commission and the European Information Security Agency. In short, nothing new or nothing that we could make up for ourselves. This was led by two of us, namely the principle of proportionality and, more importantly, the principle of transparency. Let me say that these security restrictions apply exclusively to critical infrastructure networks. These are areas such as health, defence, water and energy, and I believe that we all agree here that when it comes to sensitive health information for our citizens or the provision of drinking water, simple security must be paramount. I can also say that the high-risk supplier determination process itself will follow predetermined criteria and procedures. The proposal from such suppliers will be prepared by the Information Security Office on a preliminary opinion from the National Security Council. The criteria under which these proposals, if any, are prepared are clearly set out in this law. On the basis of all this material, the government will end up with the last word. Well, let me say that these potential high-risk suppliers will be able to participate in the preparation of the expertise I am talking about. Nor does it argue that the decision on high-risk suppliers will be final and that judicial protection or legal protection will not be possible. On the contrary, legal protection will also exist in this case. In short, it is a measure which is extremely proportionate and a procedure which is as transparent as possible. As regards the independence of the regulator, let me say that this government is absolutely committed to the independence and autonomy of the regulator in this area. I'm talking about Akos, of course. I am very pleased that our government service has been extremely cooperative with Akos and that Akos has also been very actively involved in drafting the bill you have before you. I am grateful for all the comments that have been made, and most of them have been taken into account, and I believe that these comments have also contributed to the very quality and expertise of the proposal before you. On the part of several Members, it was said that, under the new law, the Council of this Agency could discharge the Director. I am afraid that this is a misunderstanding, because the proposal you have before you does not provide for this. So it just doesn't hold! However, I would like to point out that we are facing considerable delays when it comes to resolving interoperable disputes in the most important cases. We know that, according to European legislation, the resolution of such disputes can take up to four months, but we have cases where there are also extremely important issues in the two-year conflict. So much longer than the European deadlines and in the event of such delays, of course, there can be a systematic violation of the rights not only of operators but also of users; it is said, of Slovenian consumers. It is quite clear that not only one factor affects these delays, but we must nevertheless ensure that all disputes are resolved as efficiently as possible and in particular within the European prescribed time limits. As far as the change of the carrier is concerned, it is true that the Ministry of Public Administration is acting as the holder of this law, since when this proposal was adopted by the Government, this ministry, of course, had jurisdiction over telecommunications and so on over this law. However, we will soon correct this authority or carrier and thank you, Mr Medved, for this comment. Let me say that we also have a very well-established dialogue with the European Commission, which supports our efforts to bring this European directive into national law as soon as possible and as correctly as possible, so that once again, as we say at the outset, my or our doors are always open. As far as cybersecurity is concerned. We've heard a lot about this today, and that's exactly what happened. This is an extremely important area that we must deal with with with the highest degree of seriousness. It has been said that we should not be doing much in this area within our Presidency of the Council of the European Union. I'm telling you, there's obviously been a misunderstanding here, too, because that's just not true. Moreover, we have managed to achieve a general approach on the NIS 2 directive, which is the most important European legislation in the area of cyber security. And maybe as far as coverage is concerned. The data provided by Mrs Muršič are based on the data of the Statistical Office of Slovenia, which is based on the Akos report, and are not the data of the Government. And with that, I conclude and thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u67	Mr. Minister, I have to interrupt you here now because you only applied for an explanation. You've reported the government for five minutes, but you've been talking for nine minutes now, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u68	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u69	This is because – because it is not your fault, but the clocks that measure time have been hidden – that is how I interrupt you at this point. [[…]] We've exhausted the list of reported discussers. However, since there is still time for discussion, I ask or see the answer that you still want to discuss on the basis of time-sharing. In doing so, I should also point out to the representative of the Government, i.e. the Minister, that he can also apply further to the discussions by pressing the switch button on the microphone. I'm opening the list now. Please sign up for anyone you want to discuss. We have three panellists: Mr Jože Lenart, Mr Franz Breznik and Mr Marko Bandelli. The first one gets the word, Mr. Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Welcome to this time-sharing, because the topic seems so topical that we have not all arrived at this time, and I am also pleased that the Minister will be able to answer my specific question. Of course, the law itself is about aligning with these European directives, with legislation – and that is also true – and of course in line with the European Digital Agenda, which aims at the full coverage of the Member States of the European Union with broadband access to the Internet, of course via optical networks, it is welcome that is financed through EU dedicated resources, that the number of ICT service providers that have built each of their own optical networks has increased significantly in recent years and thus have become directly competitive with the leading providers of such services. In practice, it happens that two or more providers in the same area build this network and that they do not owe, of course, an impact on the environment. This is one, but above all, my dear, economics. Each has its own costs and ultimately affects the final price of services paid by the users. And that is the basic logic where the state should do more to make this infrastructure somehow under the state's view and that this matter will move economically forward. After all, people are also taxpayers, and if you close this circle, there must be some savings that could be used elsewhere by the commuter — if I express myself nicely at home. Of course, it is basically this cybersecurity and all the things that are involved in this law, of course, which are necessary. We know that new threats are particularly threatening in this area. Less, I'm sorry, we're going to be fighting front, but more, of course, with these modern weapons, where this area belongs. I agree with that. What I said before, I will also set up my own problem, and the National Assembly is now changing the operator. I live three kilometers out of the urban area, only three kilometers from Slovenj Gradz. I can't go to the new operator because there's only an A1 operator in my area who built a new transmitter five or six years ago. That's the only one that's hunting me. Is it not sad to look at it this way in practice? I've given it so simply on purpose. We still have that kind of problem. And, of course, I'm going to have to stay on A1 right now if I want to communicate at home as a Member. By the way, it may not be quite appropriate for me to discuss this, but I think it's very visual. The bigger problem with which I have come today, and I also want the Minister's reply, is the following. Look, in 2020, when this epidemic hit us, we went to remote learning. And what did we find in Koroška, where I come from? Koroška has a circus of 20,000 households with 70,000 inhabitants. Of these 20,000 households in Koroška, 891 households do not have Internet access. I took part in this meeting when the Government came to visit when we had the Council of the Coroners, and three ministers participated in this meeting and also representatives of the operators. No one has promised to solve this matter. I'm asking if this marriage is working out now. Under this directive, which I have started today, the European Digital Agenda, we are all citizens, we have the right to do so. Let me finish because I can see my time is running out. I spoke to three mayors today. Sub-large – half the households do not have Internet. Not even today! Nothing has moved in the last two years! Two calls are out, no one wants to apply because no one is economically acceptable. Where is the country here to help these citizens and children and so on? Are you even aware of this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u72	Look, this is one point for my speech, because today I didn't want to come forward at all, because this debate, where there are some things about technology at the time we live, including the regulation of this open space technology, is counterproductive. I'm surprised the minister has very good nerves. After ten years of working here in Parliament, as far as this eye-opening to some people is concerned, where the world is going, what modern technologies mean, but I could say that I have done something so far, I have failed something. The essence of the basic law is that it must be urgently adopted, respected colleagues. We can digitize, you can think I remember when we prepared that resolution on the digital transformation of Slovenia, which I co-authored; some laughed, some made a fool, that was relatively years ago. [[…]] When I was talking about technical professions eight years ago, some people were also muttering that I wanted to destroy some high school. All this is today, look, an urgent need. When you press today, my friend, against this law, you will try to make sure that your citizens or some part of your electorate, out there in the countryside somewhere in Koroška, will remain for even longer without any communication in the 21st century. The history of this, see, telecommunications, the history of transition, the monopoly of Telekom in Slovenia, the company that was at the time when I said it was to be sold, worth more than two billion, where the company was so exhausted that today it is worth 200 million, where it was even destroyed by Mobiltel, in order to at least bring some of the profits to Telekom, which today shows. And see if this legislation, respected colleagues, is not adopted, we cannot seriously introduce 5G technology, get more bidders and that serious competition will take place on the Slovenian market. Now, I'm just going to technically tell you a few things because we don't have enough time to even get into a tough debate. First thing that is. The 5G network operates on three frequency spectrums, on 700 megahertz, which is currently in use, comes on 3.6 gigaheric and later on, on the so-called 26 gigaheric spectrum, which will indeed be able to solve those maximum speeds. Why would that be necessary? It will be necessary to develop telemedicine, someone from America with a surgical robot to save the life of someone in a cell or a Maribor hospital, in real time after millimetre waves, by delaying perhaps a few dozen milliseconds, will mean that your son, the gods, will be able to save his life because one aneurysm will be operated by an American surgeon who is leading in this area. So remotely, with the help of a surgical robot and partly with the help of a team. It will continue in all areas of operation – traffic accidents, I listened yesterday, over 100 dead still in Slovenia. This 5G network will solve: smart traffic, smart vehicles that will communicate with each other – again in real time due to high frequencies. Without this legislation, which the Minister has brought before us, dear fellows, we will again be lagging behind in this area. It's basic infrastructure! They're not sidewalks, they're traffic lights. In the 21st century, telecommunications infrastructure is more needed at this moment for a serious breakthrough moment in Slovenia. The government has made a breakthrough in all areas, from your story with Taiwan Go to Taiwan, look at the technology companies – I was there, communicating with companies that have 45, 100 billion annual traffic – and you will see what giants are hiding there, to that. [[…]] It's all one package, dear fellows! But we've had ministers, it's done in drawers and so on, I don't explain all the other stories, because in five minutes it's gonna be hard to tell. But when you press "against", all of your, mostly, rural voters who are still looking for a combination today to have a decent speed – I am talking about a decent speed, still, even a few megahertz per second – you will do just that if the law falls, it will be passed on and there will be no competition. So I appeal to my fellow Members, a little reason, a little breadth, a little look into the 21st century, so that we can get something like this through. Prepare, we have first reading, prepare an amendment, help if you think there are serious concerns, to get through and to become a serious high tick society, with which we can then solve all other policies, from the social state and so on. Here is the basis, this is the telecommunications infrastructure and this is the basic, I could say, the law that will solve this telecommunications infrastructure market. That's why I'm also calling for us to do, step together, take one step forward in this area. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u73	Mr Marko Bandelli has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u74	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Minister! Today we've heard everything, all sorts of things about this marriage. I'll say we're not basically opposed to this case here. No, because it would be foolish to oppose it now, because it is only a conclusion if it is for further use — or not? In the second phase, we will probably require some changes with the amendments. I will now give you just a few cases that I know about, because I personally know what this is about, because I participated in the construction of the OŠO throughout Crassus, because I was the mayor and therefore in the first person, as here probably no one knows what the problems of building a certain route are. I'll tell you exactly, I'm going on specific cases, I'm going to count them down because there's a lot of them, but I don't have time. But look, first thing. The new law in Article 17 introduces a mandatory normal belt per metre. On every side. Do you know what that means? It is a three-metre belt; the karst paths, the rural paths are two meters 60 asphalted. Broadband, or whatever it is, usually works at a bank. That's a meter and a half to go to the lot. Who's going to give you consent? Who will calculate how, in what way, this thing will be dissolved? It's like saying: we won't do it because we can't. Because here was the biggest problem with decomposition and all these things. So I propose in this law, as it has been to this day, what it is, is a buffer belt of half a metre. And let's take this into account, because we're sure that if you don't fix this, we're going to try to make an amendment, because this is from a practical point of view, I'm speaking from an operational point of view, to correct this matter. Another thing that bothers us. In the new article 27, you wrote in a new version that the words “on property owned by a country or by a self-government local community” are added. Do you know what that means? That means Telekom builds a line. Now I'm gonna tell people because they probably don't know what this is about. Telekom builds a line and gets all the consent. He usually sets up more pipes than just what's needed. And if you want to use one new line, with one new operator coming in again to make use of this existing infrastructure, you have to ask again for consent for all that is not public and is not municipal; it is not state and is not municipal if we say so. This is exactly what it says in this law. And that's pure protection for Telekom. This article and these changes to the previous phase, when you coordinated, were not, you added this now for the last 15 days – this thing here – or before the last version came out because we controlled all these things. This practically limits; literally, it is another obstacle to competition. So, the competitor can't get in because who's going to ask again completely new for all the consents. It's the same as saying Elektro, Eles, who has a line and other operators are doing and to get one new operator you have to ask again for consent that you can even walk on this line. I mean, that's how I caricature now, but it's the exact same thing. The same problem is in defining when you define a distribution point in the third article. You know exactly what you want; there must be written “instead of passive also active”. Because we know what's passive. Passive means that he can tie himself to the fiber even in front of the last house and come directly into the house. That's the way he's got to get out of the center. And if we put this into law, he added it to Telecom's safe to protect himself from letting the competition go. We do not make the law here that only one operator will work in this sense, but here we want more competitors, because greater competition will, also prices will be different. We know what the free market is like in this case. So we don't do the same thing we did with the fuel, because we've already put so much time through. And you know, I'm not gonna teach you what's passive, what's active and virtual access, which goes directly, here, this. [[…]] You understand exactly what I'm saying, don't you? And also the fourth thing that bothers me a little bit, I mean, it bothers me a lot. Since the directive requires that it be resolved within four months, Akos says he will respond within four months. You know, there is one very important, very important thing here, this difference is cited in Article 7 of the Directive. So the mandatory consent must be within four months, not just the answer. But it has to be solved. That's what you're going to have to do. It's nothing, it's just an operational thing, but given that I've worked with and worked with these things, I know what this is about and what the obstacles to new operators can be. That's all this is about. And if you fix it, we'll probably confirm it, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, which is half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda. Mr. Minister, I have specifically warned you that if you want to discuss this final part, you must apply. But you didn't sign up, so I'm not giving you my word now. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. On the basis of the above, the Commission considers that it is not possible for the Commission to assess the possible political liability of the holders of public functions due to the suspicion of impermissible political interference with the police and political impact on the origin of the pre-command and other procedures. The interim report was submitted to the meeting by the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the possible political responsibility of public function holders due to the suspicion of unacceptable political interference in the work of the police and the political impact on the course or outcome of the forecasting and other procedures. The components of the interim report are also a separate opinion submitted on 12 January 2022 by the Member of the Investigative Commission, Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti, which is in accordance with Article 104(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Article 17 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, marked by the degree of secrecy, data protection, the protection of personal data, and is therefore not available to the general public, and the second separate opinion submitted by the member of the Investigative Commission of Magi on 18 January 2022. Dejan Kaloh, who is fully available to the public. If anyone would like to discuss the separate opinion of the winner of Jelinčič of 12 January, which contains personal data, please inform me beforehand. In this case, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 101 of the Rules of Procedure, we will interrupt the meeting and the meeting, but only after all the pre-prepared debaters have received the floor. We will then continue the meeting in closed session, at which the discussion will be possible as part of the remainder of the time of all participants in the meeting, as a direct application to the debate. At the close of the meeting, all measures comparable to those taken at the time of treatment of materials marked with internal secrecy will be carried out. I ask all debaters not to state in the public part of the debate the information contained in that separate opinion which is not available to the public. We are moving on to a debate on the interim report on the essential findings and on the proposals for conclusions. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant to the President of the Commission of Inquiry to Mr Rudi Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The police are a service for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, taking care of the security of all of us, and over the years they have gained great confidence in people. Does anyone in this country have the right to undermine that trust? Does anyone have the right to interfere with the work of the police, to submit to it? Does anyone have the right to turn the police into a service of a ruling policy? The police who grew up out of the nation and conquered Slovenia with it? We are convinced in the Marjan Sarca List that no one has this right; that no one has the right to use epidemics for the explicit politicisation of the police. At the same time in LMŠ, together with the co-signatories for the initiation of the parliamentary investigation, the Social Democrats, Levico and Stanko Alenka Bratušek, we note with concern that by setting up the SDS party and party, or the ruling coalition of loyal personnel, we are moving to all the key places in the police system when the police are practically politically controlled. Thus, less than a year ago, the initiators of the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry, the LMŠ Group, justified the reasons for its establishment. After a good half-year of operation of the commission of inquiry, it is right to familiarize the National Assembly and the entire Slovenian public with our findings so far. The Commission's interim report, adopted by four votes in favour and by two coalition votes against, confirms, in our opinion, the reasonable suspicion that politicisation and ruthless submission are transforming the police into an extension of the ruling policy. And in such situations we are able to react, in such situations we are obliged by all democratic means to safeguard the reputation of the police. In such situations, we are obliged to restore the bewildered confidence of the people in the Slovenian police, and we must be very concerned that confidence in the police as an institution is declining in the citizens. We must be concerned that the leadership of the Slovenian police and the ruling policy, when faced with this, are not seeing or not wanting to see the situation in the police as idyllic, and that the current Director General of the Police, Dr. Anton Olay, with the generous support of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs, by exerting pressure on both police unions, who warn that police and police officers have lost confidence in his credibility, are violating existing legislation. This clearly stems from his testimony before the commission of inquiry, and the Commission has therefore brought a suspicion to the Special Prosecutor's Office of the alleged crime against the Director-General of the Police. The actual purpose of the warning before the termination of the working relationship between the leaders of both unions is to intimidate and attempt to discipline the leaders of both unions. This is not the only example of such intimidation by the Director General of Police. Some Witnesses who had been questioned by the commission of inquiry had to defend themselves in the workplace for their confessions or were subject to certain controls. Under Article 286 of the Penal Code, this is a crime. The penalty is intended to affect the testimony or the execution of evidence in a judicial or administrative procedure or in a parliamentary investigation procedure or in a pre-KPC procedure. The pressure on people who are already, perhaps to testify again before the commission, is also an indirect message to those who are yet to be invited to witness. Such pressure is undoubtedly an obstacle to the work of the commission of inquiry. Following the publication of the Interim Report, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior, Franz Kangler, also took part in the work of the Commission of Inquiry. Not only did he deal politically with the Commission, but he also put pressure on the Commission, which documents to deal with, of course at the moment he cannot and must not know what else the Commission intends to deal with, which documents to request. The Commission of Inquiry noted the involvement in police personnel policy, which, of course, does not at all confirm the progress of the Commission's work so far; it is quite the opposite. For the Commission proves that there is no autonomous human resources policy in the police, but it is subordinated to the political workforce carried out by the police leadership, according to the predominant policy. The Interim Report shows that all three former police directors have categorically denied any influence on their human resources moves since the government's appearance. The statements of many witnesses challenge their claim. Three witnesses told them that the then director Anton Travner himself had to tell them that in exchange for his position in politics – he also mentioned Gregorčičeva, where the government was established – to promise the immediate replacement of the Director of the National Investigation Office and the Director of the Criminal Police Directorate; and he did so. He solved the first one illegally and transferred it illegally, as the court also ruled. He solved the other one without any specific explanation. And Boštjan Lindav added Travner’s words: “This is the order of politics.” It was expected that Travner denied it. Three witnesses confirmed his statements. According to testimony before an investigative commission in the police, the career system is virtually out of force. From the command post, someone can come directly to the director's office or the inspector's post. People are coming to positions, despite the opposition of the police. Security checks, as a basis for determining the eligibility of job candidates, are irrelevant if the policy has a different interest from the profession. As a result, he left the police station as head of the Internal Investigations and Integrity Service, Franc Pavlin. Political removal for the ruling policy of disruptive personnel, as they call it at the top of the police force, is in the most eloquent and, in fact, bizarre, manifesting itself in the establishment of a working group on migration. At the time, Director-General Andrej Jurič proposed suspended police chiefs who had never dealt with migration; at the same time, he could not tell them, neither ever, nor anything, even where they would work, he did not know. However, he was able to add two other criminals to the committee, who had previously been publicly discredited by the SDS in Parliament. Interestingly, both of them worked in the real estate investigation of Janez Janša, better known as Trent. And then Jurič, before the committee, asks if he knew the skills of a migrant criminalist who is transferring her to a government task force, freely says yes because he met her several times at lunch. According to the same recipe, the current director of police, Dr. Anton Olaj, has set up another working group under cover of backlog resolution, where some investigators from the National Investigation Office have been reestablished. Among them is the head of the investigation, who was investigating, inter alia, controversial purchases of protective equipment and the suspect is Minister of Economic Affairs. The National Investigation Office is even the target of the ruling SDS and its supporters from the very beginning until they have placed there clearly enough loyal political choice, Petra Grah Lazar. Notwithstanding the fact that the court has returned to this position the retired Director of the Male, that her qualifications for this town are questionable that even her security review was disputed, the ruling party has ensured that the NPU is fairly politically and organisationally controlled. Which is of crucial importance to the ruling, as it investigates matters which are a nuisance to the ruling policy, including the disputed transactions in the acquisition of protective and medical equipment, the disputed financing of the SDS party, Janez Janša's disputed property business. And in these cases, criminals are withdrawing in the middle of investigations, there are reasonable suspicions that the investigators, such as Restoration or Snow White, are in advance informed about house investigations; however, investigations are obviously not moving from a dead point. So with all the human resources plants – the policy objective is achieved. I cite only some of the most exposed facts which confirm when the commission of inquiry is established that since the 14th government's appearance, Janez Janša has been led by unacceptable political interference in the work of the police and that the ruling policy has an impact on the course or outcome of certain predictive and other procedures. The interim report also confirms this on several occasions. It also confirms that the operators of all the controversial actions described in the report are the leading people in the police – the Director-General, the Director of the Criminal Police Directorate, the Director of the National Investigation Office and others at the lower levels of governance. They are therefore directly responsible. In particular, the Director-General, appointed by the Government, should take decisions autonomously and take into account the purely professional competences of appointments. The Commission's findings show that recruitment is and is still beyond professional competence, many times on the principle of loyalty or political affiliation. The current government, through the Director-General of Police, exerts its influence all the way to leading police stations, as confirmed by the recent amendments to the Law on Organising and Working in the Police. The interim report of the Commission of Inquiry is accompanied by a separate opinion from the Members of the Committee, Dejan Kaloh and the winner, Jelinčič. The opinion of the Victory of Jelinčič mostly deals with the functioning of police unions, but also contains some personal data from people who are not relevant to the work of the commission of inquiry. The opinion, in my opinion, is also not appropriate for consideration in the public part of the meeting of the National Assembly. The separate opinion of Dejan Kaloh is, in my opinion, a political account with an investigative committee established in accordance with the applicable legislation and also operating within the prescribed framework. The Commission manifests harmful action against the current government and doubts about the credibility of the testimony of all those who have in any way confirmed the allegations of political involvement in the work of the police. The Member refers to the testimony of the Director of Police, Dr Anton Olaj and former Director of Tatjana Bobnar, and their testimony is not part of the Interim Report at all, as they could not be included in the interim report due to administrative procedures and will form an integral part of the final report. The rapporteur's finding that the Interim Report does not disclose direct instructions from political officials responsible for the police is sufficient for him to make a claim that politics does not interfere with the work of the police. The interim report proves exactly that the police are responsible for carrying out the will of the ruling policy, and it would be naive to expect them to document instructions or orders for contentious conduct. The interim report exposes serious negative actions in the functioning of the Slovenian police leadership, and in certain cases they are also illegal. It exposes the impact on certain predictive procedures, exposes the establishment of working groups with a view to removing disruptive personnel from their areas of operation. Therefore, political officials cannot avoid responsibility. In cases of dispute, the Minister of Interior should react, act against the Director of Police. However, this does not appear to be the case, which shows that any disputed conduct of the police leadership takes place in agreement with the ruling policy. Not only is there no requirement for the responsibility of executives in the police, with their public function, the public expression of the views of the Minister, together with the secretary of state, but it only encourages controversial practices in the police. The Commission of Inquiry therefore proposes a decision calling on the Minister of Interior to resign.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first word is Mrs. Janja Slug. It will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u78	On the basis of the work done so far, the Commission of Inquiry has clearly found, on the basis of facts and testimonies, that the Ministry of the Interior’s leadership is deliberately and brutally interfering with the work of the police. It systematically dismantles systems within the police, and by politically motivated staffing and other measures, it is trying to achieve what the leader of the largest coalition party has been doing for three decades – total discrediting of independent state institutions and bodies. In doing so, he repeatedly seeks out the various false theories of conspiracy, which create emergency situations and seek excuses for his actions and actions of his subordinates. Minister Hojs and his closest associates are nothing more than obedient soldiers, some would use the word lakaji, this long years of planned gradual coup if I borrowed their words from a few days ago. Of course, this is happening at a time when a number of extremely important investigations into the suspicions of crime are taking place. Let us recall the house investigations with Minister Počavalšku, and recall the unfinished real estate investigations in Soča, if I mention only these two cases. Who knows; they may also fear that investigations will follow into the transactions of the largest coalition party with Hungary. Let us add to this an attempt by the coalition to quietly amend criminal law by significantly reducing the outdated time frame for economic and other crime, and we get a very clear picture of the plan of the ruling coalition – to subordinate the police to politics. Of course their politicians. The key places to appoint personnel who will not specifically investigate such actions if at all, and the legislation that I am convinced they hoped to go through in Parliament and without much noise in the public, will make it difficult to investigate and prosecute their actions, even if they lose rapidly approaching elections. So from independent law enforcement agencies and the judiciary, make another harmless tiger who may be able to growl. But skilled lawyers could take any procedure long enough to make these crimes obsolete. And if something good has happened in two years of government, it is certainly that people have become attentive to their mode of operation. Careful and sensitive to the shameless degradation of all independent institutions and actions that go beyond all ethical, moral and legal standards. I believe that the proposal for amendments to the Penal Code for this parliamentary coalition has come across an unscheduled response to the public. I could say that people overlooked them and did not help financial bombers who, at the expense of paying off their debts to generations of our children and grandchildren, shared the average, nor did they brutally intervene in reporting those media in which they rushed to frame their subordinates. But it's not like there's a candy bar or a candy bar that would cloud or divert people's attention from all these acts. Let us look at the picture even more broadly than the findings of the parliamentary commission of inquiry. In the government, we have a minister who, at the time of the most severe epidemic lockdown, tried to cross the state border against the rules adopted by the Government, which he is a member of. We have a minister who is in court for counterfeiting documents and is supposed to take care of the smooth functioning of the judicial system. We have a minister with whom house investigations were conducted on suspicion of economic crime in the procurement of medical equipment at the time of the epidemic. I'd rather not mention his associations with supposed sandwiches and mineral water. What is legal for Jupiter is not legal for oxen, says the river and means a pool with first- and second-class citizens. This is clearly a winged woman who best describes the actions of ministers and members of this government and of this coalition. The findings of the commission of inquiry, based on facts and testimonies, best symbolize the fact that a fundamental change is necessary in Slovenia; even more so, normalisation. People have enough emergency situations, enough to encourage division and enough to arouse fear. Today, it will show once again how irrelevant the facts are for this coalition, especially for its largest client. We have experienced and will be pointing fingers at others to divert attention from their actions. We are going to have speeches about conspiracy theories of some imaginary, secret societies, and we are going to experience the ostracism of the head in the sand of those coalition MPs, who know on their own that such acts do not have the domestic right in a country that has a democracy written in the Constitution. Of course, the Minister will not give up despite the call of the Commission of Inquiry or that is why. It is in this place to carry out the tasks assigned to it until the last moment, but this last moment of this government and the government coalition is rapidly approaching. For some, it may be quite fast, but for all those who put individual freedom and democracy first, it is slow. However, less than 3 months remain until the turning point, after which – I am sure – the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenians will be able to breathe again more freely and with their lungs full of breath, because we will rid ourselves of all the anxiety feelings that this government and this coalition have aroused us for two years. I thank my colleagues and fellow Members of the Commission of Inquiry for the work they have done and for the preparation of the Interim Report, as the mandate of this meeting is rapidly expiring. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members and Members of Parliament, we will support the key findings of this Interim Report as well as the proposed conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Dean Kaloh. He will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u80	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Fellow Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished Slovenian public! We are therefore considering today the Interim Report on Parliamentary Inquiry by the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the possible political responsibility of public function holders due to the suspicion of unacceptable political interference in the work of the police and the political impact on the course or outcome of the forecasting and other procedures adopted by the coalition members on 10 January 2021. As was said, two members of this commission were against us. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we point out immediately that, in other words, the commission of inquiry in question is of course a diametric, opposing interest of the opposition, with all the resources of the opposition, harming the current government in a coordinated manner and, of course, indirectly the country. The key findings of the Commission's Interim Report are both assessed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group as unfounded, misleading, harmful and partly malicious. In the Interim Report, the descriptions of the legal frameworks that define what is most important to this investigator are completely, but truly completely lacking. That is to say, the acquisition and termination of the position of the directors of the authorities in the composition of the ministries, the rights and obligations of public servants, the organisation, the functioning and management of the police and the specificities of the labour relations within the police and, of course, their rights and obligations. There is no spirit or hearing about the three important laws in this area that this investigator is to be addressed, namely the Law on State Administration, the Law on Public Servants, the Law on Organising and Working in the Police. Without any quoting of these laws in the Interim Report, they do appear to be some kind of free file without some serious reference in order to have a serious debate in the National Assembly on the subject of the parliamentary inquiry itself. We assess that the management and work of the Ministry of the Interior under the leadership of Minister Aleš Hojs, as well as the relationship between the Ministry and the police, and the organisation and management of the police, take place exclusively following the above-mentioned legislative decisions and, of course, legally and professionally. It is worth recalling, however, that all the activities and actions of the Ministry of the Interior and the police themselves are constantly being monitored, subject to both internal and external control, so that any possible correctness, if any, would also see the light of the world; but it has never been so. The conclusions and claims in the interim report in question by the Commission of Inquiry that the appointment of these new governments has started – so at least the preparers write – to clean up, systematic staff cleaning, even write, and to modify the organisational structure aimed at establishing a police system that will operate under the policy dictatorship, in particular the largest coalition parties of the SDS, are already legally ineligible, unfair and offensive from this legal postulate. And I think it is also necessary to condemn both the political and the professional public, who, with the tasks and the work of the police, stab themselves on the professional side. I assess that the purpose of any parliamentary investigation is not and must not be a brutal account with political competition, especially if there are actually malicious incitements and false indications in the Interim Report. One of them, for example, was that the SDS Secretary-General was also a whisperer in the selection of Andrej Jurič as Head of the Police Director-General. It's true. It's a subversion. It's not real. In assessing the conclusions of the Interim Report itself, this indisputable fact must be highlighted that of the 20 witnesses who testified before the Commission of Inquiry, 17 witnesses have completely rejected the suspicion of political interference with the work of the police and the political impact on the progress or outcome of the forecasting procedures. It is said that 17 of the 20 Witnesses did not detect this possible suspicion or alleged political interference with police work. However, these late conclusions, which were found in the Interim Report, are based mainly on statements made by two witnesses, Mrs Tatjana Bobnar and Mr Boštjan Lindav, who, of course, took up their posts as Director General of the Police and Mr Lindav as Director of the CAP during the term of Minister Boštjan Poklukar, who is from the LMŠ quota. This is a party colleague of the current chairman of this commission, Mr Rudi Medveda. I now believe that this appearance of impartiality and credibility is conceived, precisely by the name of these indisputable political links between the head of this Commission, Mr Medved, and the Boštian Pollockar, who were, in fact, party friends from the once ruling LMŠ. The allegations in the Commission's Interim Report that the Government has set up a special government group for illegal migration solely for the purpose of relocation, in the notes, of disturbing police officers, and not to do anything. Neither the police nor the MNZ nor the Government have any document or actual success in preventing and controlling migration. The drafters could look at Article 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as they can, of course, appoint a government working group to perform the tasks entrusted by the Government to several ministries and government services. It has also done so in this special government commission. According to the decision to establish a working group of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare proposals for more effective protection of the state border, prevention of illegal migration and the fight against human trafficking, the group reported on its operation every three months to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This could be seen by the preparers of the report themselves because the records of the government meetings are, of course, public on their website. And the Working Group has already submitted a report for the fifth three-month reporting period, which was discussed at the 109th regular meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is accessible to all, so that no one actually holds these labels. And now I don't know if the authors of this report are so malicious, or that they're so lazy that they didn't get these reports, even though they're publicly available, as they say, on the government's website. And this kind of report was the fifth in a row. The interim report of the Commission of Inquiry also raises concerns about the appropriateness of certain current directors or so-called administrative managers from the GPU, the NPU, the UKP and police administrations, as well as the performance and organisational climate of the General Police Administration and its units, which is in some ways incorrect, also very questionable, as the basis for the evaluation of the Commission of Inquiry in the Interim Report is based solely on the statements of these witnesses, where it detects some resentment, particularly the two actors I mentioned earlier, since their management was then resolved. And here their benevolence, or credibility, is questioned. In addition, the evaluation of performance and some organisational climate in the police domain is the domain of every current police director, not this investigator. And, as now, investigators are not important, obviously, objectivity and the actual situation in the police, but we are going back to that variation on the issue of defamation of the current Minister of Interior and Government as a whole. What do publicly available statistics show? Next – police have improved criminal investigation in 2020, while the police review for the first half of 2021 shows that the investigation of crimes has been the highest in the last ten years. Also, the police have found crimes of their own in the last ten years or so, according to what has been called proactive activity. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, both the findings of the Interlocutory Report of the Investigative Commission and the findings on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions are considered deliberately misleading, malicious and harmful and are fully rejected at the substantive level. Allow me to conclude, and I will also refer to the concluding part of the Interim Report, and we estimate that it is entirely contrary to its own origins in the case of this investigative commission, as it only notes that no direct instructions from the State Secretary, Minister or President of the Government have been disclosed that the responsible officers of the police have carried out any controversial actions of their own volition. Moreover, the findings regarding the political responsibility of public function holders in the Interim Report of the Commission of Inquiry are very flat-rate and qualitative in terms of the collected evidence are very sensitive or lax. Therefore, the very decisions to be adopted by the National Assembly are not, in our opinion, worthy of the support of this national assembly. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will therefore not support the essential findings of this Interim Report or the proposed conclusions themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Rudi Medved. He will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u82	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Slovenian police must be autonomous in carrying out their mission; they must once again become autonomous, respecting the principles of legality and professionalism and democratic control mechanisms. This is one of the main points of the LMŠ programme, because we respect constitutional regulation, because our values are democracy, responsibility, principle, honesty, high standards of political culture. Since the government of John Janša, these values have been threatened, these values have also been severely undermined. That is why our first and primary objective is normalisation, normalisation as a return to trust among people, trust in people with respect to politics, trust in all the institutions of this country. Unfortunately, the concern is how deeply people's confidence in the Slovenian police has fallen. Sadly and at the same time, it is a matter of concern that confidence in people also declines in the police profession itself; and this is unfair to every police officer, police officers who in every situation, at every hour, take care of our safety, risk their whole lives. What happened to people losing confidence in the police as an institution and also a police officer? In a profession worthy of all respect. In a profession that we should trust by the nature of his mission, because our security and prosperity depend on him. In these extremely difficult times, when trust is a fundamental element of success in managing the epidemic, it is difficult to understand the reaction of the Director General of Police, Dr Anton Olai, who is even positively surprised because the decline in confidence in the police is not as much as he expected. Which means that this attitude of people towards the police is not only a matter of concern, but a deepening of the gap between people on the one hand and the police on the other hand is embedded in their political philosophy. The ruling policy, with the SDS party at the helm, interferes with the Slovenian police system all the time since it came to power. There's uncertainty and fear in the police force. However, decisions that should be professional are often poor, unprofessional, because decision makers tend to be attracted to ruling politicians. Disobedient or underlying are discredited by anonymous people. Negative staff selection also runs by transferring people to certain jobs without adequate qualifications, the career system being disrupted, the police leaving people with long professional experience, even the people who have been placed there by the current management set up because they are obviously too loyal or too radical. This is happening for personal reasons, people are looking for new challenges, says the Director-General. Of course, for personal reasons. Because of the situation in the police, they can't take it anymore. Splitting into yours and ours, dividing into lefts and rights – in the police it simply cannot happen, should not happen. All of this can have serious consequences at the end of the day for our internal security, the Ombudsman of which is primarily the police. The brutal billing with disruptive personnel from day to day is more complete with the actinian squad or squad written off, as they call it within the police. The ruling policy, with the SDS party at the helm, uses the epidemic to strongly politicise the police. By setting up client and client loyal personnel to all the key places in the police system, we are moving to the stage when the police are politically controlled. Interior Minister Aleš Hojs confused his political function with the post of Police Director, so that the new, now third, Director of Police under this authority, Dr Anton Olaj, is finally the right extension of the Minister's term. Faithfully following the political will of the authorities, it is no longer satisfied with suspensions and transfers alone. Warnings against failure of the working relationship shall be divided by all odds, including criminal charges against disruptive personnel are not rare. The Director-General of the Police, Dr. Anton Olay, has virtually everywhere to see the attack on himself, with every criticism of his work he feels hurt. It goes so far as to introduce verbal delinquency. What the Minister of the Interior has failed to enforce through legislation, due to his strong opposition to the opposition, civil society and the professional public, the Director-General is now implementing in practice. Persecuting people from the civilian sphere who have publicly expressed any picra at his expense. He's after the unionist, and in the same breath, he shuts up when the interior minister insults the same unionists, regrets and insults. It does not protect their integrity because, like the interior minister, it separates police and trade unions, even though both unions bring together a large majority of the employees in the police force. Is the police really becoming just an organ that punishes? Are police officers really just becoming soldiers who obey orders? The ruling suit is scrupulously trying to penetrate and completely subjugate all police pores. This ruling suit will leave, and the Slovenian police will stay here. The police, which at the highest level fulfils the mission of citizen service, have grown up from a nation; they turn this police into a service to a ruling policy. And that's dangerous. Therefore, we must not accept the thesis that Slovenia is turning into a police state, but we must change that state. And that's what we're gonna do. We'll establish confidence in the police, if that's overwhelming. And it's dizzy because people started to think of cops as perpetrators of repression. I believe that cops hurt when they get in their faces that they're Yanshes or Hojs's soldiers when people take special forces with more than ten kilos of equipment on them with slavers than some impersonal robots. Due to the repressive policy of the authorities, police officers are increasingly forced to act disproportionately against the nature of the mission they carry out. Using physical coercion in many cases, causing repulsion in people, police officers themselves are ashamed to do so. This authority shows a strong tendency to suppress an expression of any opinion that is not in its will. And this, this really worries. And to do that, they're harassing the police. Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojs is the embodiment of such a policy and, given the strong tendency to repress the LMŠ belief, should not even become a minister. At the very least, the Minister of the Interior has defaced this function and turned it into a police minister. On the basis of the previous hearings of witnesses on an investigative committee, on the basis of the testimony of many police personnel who do not publicly hope to be exposed, on the basis of the testimony of people who have left the police or who have retired, on the basis of the unconvincing testimony of those who are currently in police decision-making positions, unconvincing, because convincing evidence of political interference with the work of the police is only answered that this is not the case, but in detail they are – it can certainly be argued that the poor conduct and compliance with the political instructions of the police director is the responsibility of the Minister for Home Affairs. On his proposal, the Director of Police is also appointed. Therefore, it is logical for the Commission of Inquiry to resign to the Minister and to have the State Secretarys leave with him. In a country where in a respectful way you shouldn't publicly say what you think, there's something really wrong in this country. And we're going there obviously, and we owe it to you to say no. All of this is happening under cover of anti-epidemic measures, and in fact, the power at the side door is introducing a verbal delicacy. The purpose of the investigative commission is to protect the reputation of the police and to expose the strong tendency of the current authorities to transform the Slovenian police from service to service the ruling suit. Like the commitment of LMŠ to do everything possible to normalise the situation after the decommissioning caused by the current government in many areas of social reality. In the police force, politics is completely removed from it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Predrag Baković is next. He will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! After a poor year of determination of the commission of inquiry to determine the actual situation and possible political responsibility of the holders of public functions for unacceptable political interference with the work of the Slovenian police, we prepared an interim report on the Commission. Today's consideration of the Interim Report does not mean that we have finished our work in the investigative committee; finally, we have some important hearings ahead of us. Most of those members of the commission of inquiry, which do not belong to a coalition party, have found, through the examination of publicly available documents and information and with the information contained in the official documents established by the level of secrecy, that the commission of inquiry, which identifies the possible political responsibility of the holders of public functions for interfering with the work of the Slovenian police, has yet to be justified and necessary. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are aware that, after several attempts, the Slovenian police have received a service director-general of the police, who is expected to fulfil the interest of the current policy; that the head office of the National Investigation Office has been occupied by a person whom we have found that there is no practice and knowledge for the management of this body; that the police leadership has re-hired important jobs within the police, who have acted in the past in contravention of parliamentary values and a vision of the police. Some of them were also investigated for the suspicion of sexual harassment in the workplace, mobile and burden tests, and some were transferred. In short, with the new leadership of the police and the ministry, people are returning to the police, who, under normal circumstances, should remain at the police door because of security concerns. That confidence in the Ministry of the Interior, led by the Minister, has been difficult to gain in the past two years; also because of the Minister's inappropriate statements and tweets. And due to the double criteria of the top police representatives, such as the last case of punishing the former President of the National Assembly of Mr Paul Ganttar for statements on Twitter and at the same time the full silence of the Director General of Police, Mr Olai, on the insults, such as the mussels, the sloths that the Minister has made to the police. At that time, Dr Olaj, who is also the Director-General of the Police, was not allowed to, hoped or refused to respond and explain his position on the abuse of police officers; however, it was not a problem for Mr Gantar to issue fines. And such double criteria further deepen the public's distrust of the police and the Ministry of the Interior. However, additional mistrust has been brought to the attention of the police by legislation that they are preparing at the Ministry of the Interior or perhaps in the government. Members and Members of the coalition peacefully, without considering what this means for society as a whole and what consequences may arise, support. And because we are talking today about political pressure on the police, let me point out the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Organising and Working in the Police. This novel attempted to establish a system in which police would be even more under the direction of a political or internal minister. Before the amendment of the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, the National Investigation Office experienced reorganisation or, if you would like, degradation. Not to mention the changes in the involvement of the police and the State Prosecutor's Office. At every step, the current government leaves traces of the decomposition of democratic norms and seeks to strengthen the country's repressive power over its people. The last of these experiments was an attempt to amend the Penal Code and the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. The purpose of the rulings is to suppress criticism and to prevent new ones from appearing by means of a threat. That's the way it is with the police. Those few people who have expressed disagreement or those who have done their work excellently but have worked on cases that threaten the current government constellation are sanctioned either by transfers to any working group, or pressure is exerted on them by means of controls, or by excluding someone, for example, from the back-up force of the auxiliary police, or by reducing the quota hours of unionists and other pressures. As a result, the police have been apprehensive about revenge, and most employees are fearful about what will happen until the end of this government's mandate. Important jobs come from people who do not have competences that they have never had, but have shown full loyalty to current policies; and only this is the key to the desired position of employment. Your Honor, the Commission's work is presented in detail in the interim report of the Commission of Inquiry. All the hearings are summarised which show that the current authority has shown how to deal with irresistible employees by heading the leading positions in the police, its investigative bodies, investigative groups and individual investigators. There is nothing wrong with setting up working groups in case you want to improve the situation. However, to establish working groups for skilled men with a long-term successful police career in order to remove them from your position, this is contrary to all standards. It is the purpose of subjugating the police in order to achieve the desired political objectives. It is a professional weakness of the police, it is a repressive force, it is a intimidation of employees, it is a subjugation of institutions and it is not the last submission of all systems in society to the current policy. In our view, the political responsibility of individual holders of public functions has been established in the opinion of the Social Democrats. The only possible sanction is that key public function holders are indeed decommissioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Ms Nataša Sukič will present her position next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Good-bye! Since Minister Aleš Hojs took over the MNZ in his hands, we have witnessed at the daily level a worrying phenomenon of the threat of autonomy and professionalism. We are witnessing brutal political cleansing at the NPU and the Slovenian police. In the spirit of increasing fear of the rule and self-voluntary power vested by Minister Aleš Hojs with his closest associates and co-workers, we are sliding over the fringes of fundamental democratic standards and slowly transforming ourselves into Janša's second republic of Orban's type, which we do not want, we have not chosen or written into the Constitution. Since since Janez Janša took over the government, there have been many more than obvious anomalies, violations of basic democratic standards, political pressures on the NPU, the police and the police union, in short, violent police politicisation, as we have never seen in Slovenia alone before, the National Assembly is 29. 3. 2021 ordered a parliamentary inquiry to determine the possible political responsibility of public function holders due to the suspicion of unacceptable political interference with the work of the police and the political impact on the flow or outcome of forecasting and other procedures. The purpose of the parliamentary investigation was to identify matters such as: what about the staff exchanges in key positions in the Slovenian security and intelligence system, particularly in the police, the NPU and the MNZ, when the professional staff were replaced by political listeners, the SDS loyal parties to influence criminal cases involving members and supporters of the SDS party; what about the illegal police and the objective and subjective responsibility for police repression against demonstrators; what about the illegal demand for the review of criminal investigations conducted by the NPU, and the illegal guidelines and mandatory guidelines of the police leadership; what was the aim of the illegal emergency control of the NPU, the illegal replacement of Dark Muzenič, the transfer of criminalists and the criminal order of the police; what was the aim of the illegal emergency control of the NPU, the illegal replacement of criminal investigation by the NPU and the illegal direction of the police; what was the aim of the criminal justice group for which it was transacted as a criminal offence? What about the union conflict, the violation of trade union rights, in order to disrupt labour organisation within the police? And so on and so forth. The list of anomalies and serious overriding powers that Minister Hojs still affords with the leadership of the police is endless. They also write laws on their own terms, such as the Police Organization and Work Act, which legalizes mass staff cleaning in managerial positions in the police at all times. So far, a number of key witnesses have come before the members and members of the Commission, both those and those who are victims of political accounting and interference with the work of the police, as well as those and those in the management functions set by this authority and are the extended deadlines of the SDS party, who are trying to submit to the police and the NPU in any way. Among them, let me mention just a few. Darko Male, David Antolovič, Igor Kekec, Petra Grah Lazar, Andrej Jurič, Boštjan Lindav, Dejan Čulk, Dr Anton Olaj, Mag. Tatjana Bobnar and others. Through in-depth interviews, members of the Commission and members of the Commission have come to worrying key conclusions that confirm our thesis, which has led the Commission to even establish that, with the intervention of the government of Janez Janša, systematic staff clearances have begun in the police. A change in the organisational structure has begun, with the aim of establishing a police system that will operate according to the policy dictatorship, particularly following the dictatorship of the largest coalition party of SDS. In the long term, this means a tendency in the event of a change of power following the next elections — to the greatest extent possible to prevent the normal functioning of the body and to ensure the flow of certain key information related to the functioning of the police to the SDS party, in order to ensure the continued information and inviolability of its key members and supporters. We have found that the current management of the Ministry of the Interior is involved in these processes, in particular the Minister and the two State Secretaries, the heads of the bodies of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the police and the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Home Affairs, and in particular the Directorate for Police and Other Security Tasks, which, with its continued supervision over the National Investigation Office, is in awe of its work. The NPU has lost its autonomy and has become a professionally underserved investigative body in recent years, although it should be the main axis of investigating the worst crimes. For almost two years now, the ruling policy has been interfering with the police without professional arguments and without justification for human resources needs. The dispute is subject to the ownership and loyalty of the SDS party in both the management and the fully operational structures of the police. The majority of newly appointed staff are involved in the hierarchical nature of police work, in disguised or published sympathy with the ruling policy, but mostly because of fear of loss of status and social security in staff cleaning they are not involved in or are simply silent about political ways of leading the police. In short, it confirmed what we were afraid of. Aleš Hojs is a typical operative of this government and specialises everything that is wrong with this government. As the government wants to completely subordinate all social sub-systems, independent institutions in this country, the judiciary, parliament, NGOs, critical citizens and citizens, the media and so on in the interests of the SDS party, Hojs, with the help of his supporters, takes over the police and forces them to cover up suspicious transactions, corruption and crime in which the people involved in the orbit are the largest coalition party, and to deal with political opponents and in the style of the most dark regimes, harass, prosecute and terrorise anyone who hopes to think otherwise, from police officers, criminals to protestors. In doing so, it must be made clear that the attack on the police, the NPU and the institutions which must be superpolitical and/or autonomous in their operations is an attack on the country. The findings of the Commission of Inquiry so far are frightening. These are unacceptable decisions and unacceptable practices of the rulings, leading to the popularisation and rise of anti-democratic extreme right forces, the trampling of democratic standards, the repressive persecution and the criminalisation of free political expression leading to the establishment of a police state, into a nightmare that becomes our reality. In Levika, as democratic socialists, we will consistently fight to restore the high democratic standards that the government of Janez Janša has trampled well in the two poor years of governance. We will consistently fight for the non-interference of policies in the work of the police, for the autonomy of the NPU, for the application of the constitutional right of citizens to free protests and opinions. Even though the report does not disclose the direct instructions of the State secretaries, the Minister or the President of the Government that the responsible officers of the police carried out such controversial actions, the said public officials cannot avoid the responsibility of quietly observing the acts described and not responding to the anomalies described in the report in accordance with their competences. Here comes their both subjective and objective political responsibility. The political responsibility that this report clearly proves is in fact a single sanction, namely the resignation or discharge of those responsible. Therefore, on the basis of the findings and the interim report of the Commission of Inquiry, it is necessary to propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the decisions proposed to Minister Hojs by the resignation and discharge of State secretaries at the MNZ. We estimate in Levica that the work of the Commission so far has been extremely in depth, impartially and professionally. Therefore, we fully support the Interim Report, as we support the two decisions proposed by the Commission to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Andrej Černigoj, who will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u88	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The key findings of the Interim Commission's report on the identification of the possible political responsibility of public function holders due to the suspicion of unacceptable political interference in the work of the police and the political impact on the progress or outcome of the forecasting and other procedures adopted on 10 January 2021 in Nova Slovenija are assessed as unprofessional, poorly reasoned, misleading places in order to tarnish the current government without the submission of clear and undeniable facts that would have gone beyond a serious legal assessment. A serious legal judgment. It saddens us that the commission of inquiry has, since its inception, the principal function of the arena, the Colosseum, which aims to fight the opposition against the coalition and, consequently, the current government. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has successfully faced an epidemic of covida-19, invisible enemies. She recognized the key problems and showed by her actions that she was working for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. This was admitted to us at home and abroad. Meanwhile, the opposition is already trying to undermine the government's work and coalition, and part of this is today's Interim Report. Members of New Slovenia have disturbed the fact that the report does not contain descriptions of the legal framework which defines the acquisition and termination of the position of the directors of the authorities in the composition of the ministries, the rights and obligations of public servants, the organisation, functioning and management of the police and the specificities of the labour relations of the police and their rights and obligations. Due to the smooth conduct of police duties, the Law on Organising and Working in Police Articles 67 and 68 provides for the possibility of temporary relocation and deployment and transfer to specific posts. That all transfers were in line with the rules, the Director-General of the Police, Dr Anton Olaj, also testified at the hearing and added that more efficient work was being pursued in these relocations. The management and work of the Ministry of the Interior under the leadership of Minister Aleš Hojs, as well as the relationship between the Ministry and the police, and the organisation and management of the police itself, have, in our opinion, been carried out solely under the above-mentioned legislative provisions, or legally and professionally. At this point, it is important to note the pressing problem in the Slovenian police, in the media image of the political functioning of police unions. At the time of the current government, it was felt that the work of trade unions was not a struggle for the labour rights of police officers, but a tool to destroy the current political leadership, with which, according to their public statements, they do not share the same attitudes. However, we must not forget that the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior has been elected in a legitimate and professional manner. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we warn that the opposition has repeatedly overlooked the fact that all the activities and actions of the Ministry of Interior and the police are traceable and, above all, verifiable and subject to internal and external control. The conclusions of the Interim Report in our opinion are based mainly on statements made by two witnesses – Mrs Tatjane Bobnar and Mr Boštjan Lindava. It is very important to note that Mrs Tatjana Bobnar took the position of Police Director-General during the previous Sharča government. Mr Boštjan Lindav took the place of Director of the Directorate of Criminal Police during the time of the mandate of Minister Boštjan Poklukar, who came from the LMŠ party, this is, indeed, the party's colleague, Rudi Medveda, the President of the Commission of Inquiry. The suspension of their posts of directors took place during the time of the term of office of the Acting Director-General of the Police, Mr Anton Travner. In our view, this information is crucial and has affected the content of the report and gives it mainly political connotation. Political connotation. The evaluation of the conclusions of the Interim Report should also take into account the undeniable fact that 20 witnesses were heard, 17 of which rejected or confirmed the suspicion of political interference with police work and the political impact on the flow or outcome of forecasting and other procedures. 17 witnesses. Three witnesses, however, did not present solid, credible and impartial evidence that Mr Anton Travner was politically involved in the work of the police. It is also entirely incorrect and intentionally misleading, in our view, in the Commission's Interim Report, that the Government has set up a special government group for illegal migration solely because of the relocation of so-called disturbed police officers; and not to do anything in this area. It is also wrong to argue that neither the police nor the Ministry of the Interior nor the Government have any document or actual success in preventing and controlling migration. Let me point out that last year the police dealt with 10 000 67 illegal state border crossings, which is for a good 31% less than 2020 when 14 000 635 were involved, which proves that the establishment of this working commission has been considered and necessary. Anyone coming from border municipalities, such as Illyrian Bistrica, is aware of the scope of the topic related to illegal border crossings and welcomes any effort made to improve the situation. According to publicly available statistics, the police improved criminal investigation in 2020, while a police review for the first half of 2021 shows that the investigation of crimes has been the highest in ten years. From that report and from that report, we can conclude that the police are working under the leadership of Minister Aleš Hojs and Dr Anton Olaj well, professionally and independently. The proposed conclusions in the Interim Report are unargued and flat-rate, so in Novi Slovenije we will not support the Interim Report of the Investigative Commission, led by former Minister and Member Rudi Medved, nor the proposed conclusions of the report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u89	Ms Maša Kociper will present the last position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u90	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of the Members! Trust in Slovenian police according to public opinion measurements is steadily falling. Given the developments we have been witnessing since March 2020, this fact is certainly not surprising. The ruling policy, especially the Minister of the Interior, has shown a tendency since the beginning of its term of office following the subjugation of repressive state authorities. For almost 2 years, we have been citizens and citizens who have witnessed acts that point to the Government's extremely strong ambitions after autocratic control. One after the other, staff exchanges took place, and in particular, exchanges in key personnel positions in the Slovenian security and intelligence system, especially in the police. In fact, staff cleaning began at the government's founding meeting and continued throughout the government's entire mandate. The most important positions in the police have been put by the government in principle – it is important that it is ours, regardless of professional competences and personality. The former director of the NPU was even dismissed in contravention of the law, which was later confirmed by the Administrative Court. With a view to legalizing its political cleansing, the government has recently even adapted a special law that allowed more than 100 people at the same time to obtain conclusions on the termination of their position. In order to clarify the circumstances that suggest an unacceptable political influence on police work and politically motivated recruitment, the National Assembly ordered a parliamentary inquiry before a bad year. The Commission was set up in June last year and the fact that we already have an Interim Report ahead of us today testifies to the intensive and obviously effective work of the Commission. On the basis of the numerous evidence reviewed and the type of hearings conducted, we have convinced members and members of our own eyes that our suspicions of political motivation and human resources still hold. The Commission thus concluded that the management of the Ministry of the Interior is undoubtedly interfering with specific forecasting and other procedures. On the basis of the findings of the Interim Report, we can therefore confirm with certainty today that, with a view to subordinated the police apparatus, the alleged political staffing has actually been and is still being implemented. Even specific working groups have been set up, mentioned several times today, in which those police representatives who have become disruptive only because of their participation in certain government procedures have been transferred. Thus, the site had to — to another job, to another building, to another place — just because they were working at a certain point in time on a specific procedure, which did not suit anyone. The highest positions in the Slovenian police force were then placed by the current government by people who are, for the most part, completely incompetent and consequently easier to manage. It was painful and tragic to see how personally affected some who had for decades built up their reputation and professional careers were so quickly and for no real reason moved, replaced, and demolished. By performing this government, he also lost his autonomy to the NPU. This first happened in practice with human resources replacements and then with the amendment of legislation also on paper. It's a body that's supposed to investigate the most serious crimes. And it is unacceptable for a party to SAB to allow a ruling policy to interfere with the substantive work of such an authority. In the SAB, we have been warning for a long time that the current government is using the health crisis as a smoke screen for the transformation, transformation and Orbanization of our country and for the strengthening of the SDS's client power in particular, as well as NSI's. For the SAB party, the findings of the Interim Report are only one of many confirmations of how urgently and quickly Slovenia needs elections. We note with concern that we have reached a point where police officers are no longer professionally independent, but are only political will enforcers. Instead of serving the welfare of citizens and citizens, in some part, not everywhere, the term of the ruling policy has become extended. Every time the opposition in every democratic system, not only in Slovenia to understand each other, the objective is to draw attention to the controversial and unacceptable practices of the ruling. We have been playing this role seriously in the SAB all the time, and we are also actively participating in the investigative commission. We will continue to make every effort to prevent the government from destabilizing our democracy. Political responsibility for intrusive interference with police work and shameless personnel clearance is clearly borne by political officials, including the Minister of the Interior and his State Secretary. Therefore, in the SAB, we will unanimously support the essential findings of the Interim Report and the proposed conclusions by which the National Assembly proposes the resignation of the Minister and the discharge of the two State Secretaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u91	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the Interim Report, on the key findings and on the proposals for conclusions. I would like to inform you that the current order of the following five Members and Members who have been invited to the debate is shown on the screens in the Chamber. The full order of the panellists is shown on the internal website of the National Assembly, under the Poimen List of Discussants. Of course, the agenda may also change during the course of the meeting. Mr Rudi Medved, the drafter, spoke before we turn to the agenda of the debaters. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I am not surprised by the position of SDS and NSI members. It's just a political position. And what if it's not another than the opposition to report that it's a political struggle and it's an opposition? Yes, of course it's the opposition. See, also parliamentary investigative commissions from the base, as you know, are looking for the political responsibility of officials, so of course they are in some way political. However, both respected colleagues are also members of the investigative commission. Otherwise, Mr Kaloh did not sit at any of these hearings or at one, I think because he came later on to this committee. My friend Montenegro was at most of these hearings. It is quite amazing that out of the more than 20 people who have been heard before the commission of inquiry, according to the SDS and NSI, only the Director-General of Police may be relevant to the fact that it is possible to refer to him, and, of course, his testimony in this Interim Report is not, as you know, only in the final event that we can wait for him or if this mandate runs to the end. To speak of the fact that of 21 or 22 Witnesses, 17 did not confirm political recruitment, political interference with the work of the police, is, of course, a reflection of the complete ignorance of the situation within the police. You know, most of these people actually showed great courage that they even came before the commission of inquiry and confessed what they were feeling, or what was happening to them on their career path. If you think that in the police system, as it is now, where the government is truly extremely untrustworthy, where intimidation reigns, and people in the system are employed, of course they risk their job with every word. And you expect, of course, to say directly – Yes, Hojs is politically pressing me. But you don't have to do that at all. I'm not going to read all these testimonies again. All the Slovenian public, thank God the meetings of this commission were public, all the testimony was public and people were able to judge from these testimonies what was really going on. But I'll give you one case. The best thing to do, of course, is to talk about individual cases, and I will not even mention the names and surnames. But if the person who received a warning against breaking up the working relationship, because he said he was poorly protecting Members here around the National Assembly, and he himself was fully convinced that he was acting in full compliance with all the professional criteria governing the police system, he was nevertheless given a warning against the failure of the working relationship. And what, of course, does the police leadership do now? And then you're surprised that a man who's not scared will testify before an investigative committee. Such a person, who is essentially intimidated by this warning, is then given to the Chief of Operations on the most sensitive day of these major demonstrations in Ljubljana. But it's with a warning against breaking up a working relationship. Well, tell him what he'll do, that he will, of course, justify his trust and that his working relationship will not be interrupted. Of course he did, on the investigative committee he said that in accordance with all the criteria and standards, but he did so by being liked by politics, because politics had expected a sharp account with demonstrators. And that sharp score finally happened. Of course, this fear may also make it a little sharper. And this is an example of how man will be intimidated or guided. A politically motivated case, because politics has clearly demonstrated its attitude towards protests, so this relationship has been well known, it has even voiced a public expectation that the police should act against demonstrators more acutely than before; and then such a person will find himself in charge of the operational headquarters with this warning. It is unusual that the confessions of these witnesses — and you have been alone on these investigative committees — you take so lightly that the person who stood out and came to witness before the commission of inquiry is lying, in your opinion. And in fact, these people who have come to witness are in the role of opposition fighting and are hurting the government and, of course, they want all the weights of this government to fall. That's what you're trying to tell them now. Because the Interim Report, which you label as tendentious and I don't know what else is going on, because this Interim Report does not contain anything other than the statements of these people who came before the Commission of Inquiry. And when you say, of course, everything was professional, everything is in accordance with the laws. Do you know how replacements and transfers run within the system? So the police director puts blank sheets in front of people and, of course, tells them to write a resignation statement. No one who was transferred or removed from any position received any explanation why. As a rule, it was decided. Not even those executives or police officials have the courage to say, "I've made up my mind. A man with integrity, and if he knows why he's doing something, of course he'll be behind it. No; it was decided, as a rule, without any explanation. The Commission on Migration; you can, of course, talk about this working group on migration, which you want, you even want to attribute to it that it is worth it, that migration was less last year, which is a ridiculous claim at all. This Migration Working Group was set up solely to withdraw from the leading positions the people set up by Tatiana Bobnar. That's a fact, you can't deny it. And that, of course, it also withdraws any criminalist who investigates matters, either with the SDS party or with the people of this government. And it's a classic political maneuver, ordered maneuver. You will never convince me that the then scientific director of the Andrej Jurič Police, who practically did not know that he had placed them in the Migration Working Group under some professional criteria. From the minutes of the first meeting of this working group, which was collided with e-mails, without even knowing what it was about, the members of this working group also told Andre Juric that, for the first time, they had never personally met him and that they did not know what they were going to do. And what did he tell them? What they're going to do is now unknown. What will be the long-term priority of the members of the working group is also unclear. Right now, priority is what each of us is doing right now. What each of us is doing right now. While arguing that, of course, he had chosen all the people himself, he was already out of this manoeuvre, as Mr Antolovič first wanted to bring him into this working group, and then the head of the NPU objected to it, and he said, "OK. Two days later, this also appeared on this list, although the Director-General of Police agreed not to be included in this working group. And such cases are as many as you want, are described in this Interim Report, many are listed or reported by people who, of course, do not want to be publicly exposed and do not hope to expose themselves publicly, which is in some ways understandable. And to report to the Interim Report a lack of knowledge of the legislation. You don't know the basic law you're referring to. You don't know it. You don't even know it. In fact, the Law on Public Servants is very clear as to the powers of officials, when and in which case and whom they can replace, after taking office, in a year without any explanation. It's strictly a matter of law, exclusively for the Director-General of Police. And, of course, no one else in the police system applies this criterion. What has also proved to be the change of director of the National Bureau of Investigation, which is precisely because of ignorance, obviously, or intentional misappropriation of the law being resolved against law. That's what the court proved. And if we go in line now, you'll see how many more lawsuits there will be in this account in the future just because some of you are in the police, of course, under the vigilant patronage of politics, they just allow everything. But what's most funny is that the issue is now that you obviously want to show that it is disputed that I, as chairman of the Commission and Boštjan Poklukar, who was under the previous mandate of the Interior Minister, was a party colleague and therefore I don't know whether you're even questioning the work of the Commission. What does Boštjan Poklukar have to do with the work of this commission? Nothing. The Commission shall deal exclusively with the period from 13 March 2020. It is without prejudice to the past, even though it was the attempts of the coalition's representatives in the investigative commission to dig up the past. Yeah, you set up an investigative commission and you can dig up all you want in the past. We have been given this National Assembly mandate since 13. 3. 2020 until, I think, November 23, 2021. And we hold on to that strictly. After your interpretation, I should leave the party in order to lead an investigative committee, or I should not be the chairman of an investigative commission at all. You have afforded yourself a very squandering claim, my well-respected colleague. This is the case, and it seems most valuable to all of us that the findings of the Commission of Inquiry are based on the testimony of the people. And I actually didn't, when we set up the commission of inquiry, hope to think that so many people would still be able to gather courage and that the commission of inquiry would actually come before that. So much for now. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We continue the debate on the list. The first one gets the word Mr Predrag Baković. Behind him is Mrs. Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I've already told you this one time, and I will, so how politics interferes with the institution and the institution, such as the police, in what way. Of course, this is the first way to set up loyal personnel. There is nothing wrong with the post of Director-General of the Police, which, of course, is set by the policy and also put off. However, the Director-General of Police should be the first to stand at the door, and also the last policy to come to. And no more down. And when the director-general puts the staff down, then he has to follow the professions, he has to follow that people are competent in these jobs with all their expertise, experience and so on. What happened? To the post of the UKP, according to the Criminal Police Administration, they hired a man whose witness said vividly that he did not write any criminal charges. As director of the National Investigation Office, we have also heard how these matters are going. And, of course, if a frame is then placed along this line, which is somehow loyal to politics, the door policy opens wide and leaves the possibility of influencing individual cases, individual events and so on. I would, however, first focus on the establishment of working groups. The most famous is the one that worked or works in the field of migration. The fact is that this commission has not been put in place because of the subject and the problem itself, but because of the important positions it has taken away the people who are disturbed. At the presentation of the Ministry of the Interior's activities during the Presidency, the Minister himself highlighted two successes that cannot be disputed. One is a joint statement by all ministers concerning Afghanistan. And, of course, others, where by confirming the conclusions, the door opened for Croatia to enter the Schengen area. Of course, this raises the question whether the Minister, who praised the success of this migration-related work in particular, has at any time consulted this working group, which should, in fact, be a church de la crème in the field of migration. From all the documentation we have, it is not visible and does not have it to indicate that this working group has ever been asked by the police leadership or the Minister on Afghanistan and on Croatia's entry into the Schengen area. My colleague Kaloh wrote his separate opinion, in which he also pointed out that the working group is reporting three months and also that, somehow, I understood at least that these are the success of the working group in order to reduce the number of migrations. If we look at the report on 2021 on migration prepared by the Ministry or the police, it is actually good to note that "we appreciate that the trend of these migrations is due to less favourable weather conditions for crossing the state border on foot and in nighttime" and so on. The working group here probably did not have a key role to play in reducing migration. However, we should have key activities to determine what our policy on these migrations is, how we will act. As far as we can tell, the minister didn't consult with them. That is why we can also think about why this working group was actually set up. The report shows that individuals have been discredited. Also with the help of policy, including with the assistance of Members, unfortunately. With the help of Mr Jelinčič, who also wrote a separate opinion on this report. In fact, a criminal who was already successful at the police department and then went to the NPU was accused of borrowing money for a virtual drug buyout. In this regard, Mr Jelinčič asked the question of a Member of Parliament, followed by the discreditation of the criminalist. The police replied that nothing was true, and the minister answered my question, and I quote: "The statement of a direct injured person in a particular case confirms the reality of the event, so an NPU official borrowed 6 000 euros from him, which is supposed to be for the apparent purchase of the illicit drug. However, the official of the National Investigation Office never returned this money to him.” Later, it was determined who was to lend money to the criminal. It's about the old man, you won't believe it. It's about an old acquaintance of the police. A person who has been repeatedly treated for serious crimes. And the minister trusted this man, not the criminal. CSI pulled out of the NPU. He didn't want to stay because of the situation. The specialized state prosecutor's office, the authorities within the police have found that nothing was true about this, but no one has rehabilitated or tried to rehabilitate this criminalist. It was all sweaty, but the stain on the man remained. A man who gave the police his whole life and was very successful. There's actually no more mutual trust in the police. That's what a lot of Indians are saying. I will present only one, namely, the criminals who seized the phone in the procurement of the protective equipment to Minister Počvalšku did not actually trust anyone. And they didn't send this phone to unlock abroad, but they took it personally. Personally, the criminal sat down and the phone drove abroad, indicating a certain lack of confidence and fear that the phone would not be lost. It is also interesting to see Mr Travner's checks, which were then the Director General of Police, on matters in the supply reserves. Sam said that he had made a preliminary determination as to whether or not it was a crime. And that was the only time that the Director General of Police himself checked the existence of crimes. Never before and never later was it checked directly for the Director-General of Police to go into the field and investigate something directly. Thus, it was no longer involved in any other crime in the field of economic crime, nor in the field of drugs, nor did it deal with traffic accidents and so on. Why did he check personal items in the supply reserves? His answer was — because he can because he is an authorized official because he has powers and because he can do so. And that day there was no one in the entire Slovenian police to check it out because they all went home. Then Mr Travner said that Lindava had suspended because he was not satisfied with his work or the work of the UKP and the NPU was bad. Here is an interesting paradox: that, on the one hand, the work has been bad, and in the annual police report for the previous year, the Director-General wrote that the police are doing their job better each year and are upgrading their profession in recent years, and 2019 has been particularly successful in this regard. So why did he replace the first criminal on the grounds that it was a bad situation if it turned out to be okay? And then he lied? As for Mr Travner and his resignation, I can say that he is actually one of the first victims of political interference with the police. The fact is, he can be replaced by a minister whenever he wants, and so on, but imagine the circumstances. Mr. Travner was at sea before he left. He was sailing. And then at some point, he decided to step down. He shall send a statement of resignation to the Minister and then proceed on his leave. There's something else going on that day. House investigations happen and something else happens, the Minister of the Interior resigned. But this one says he's resigning from housework. He says, Mr Travner, that this is his personal decision. Of course, a question arises to everyone, what is the likelihood that someone who is on vacation will have a nice time, decide and think about the job, decide — and now I will give up. And then, of course, he sends it on. There is no question here why Mr Travner has resigned. I think that's clear to everyone. Here is the question whether he really resigned himself, whether he had to resign because he was forced to do so by politics; and if so, the impact of policy on individual investigations is already shown here. In fact, there was nothing left for Mr Travner but to say that he had resigned for personal reasons, by title, because in the case of the house investigations that took place at the time, the police acted lawfully, professionally, tactfully and legally. And he can't back down for that. You can step down then, the only convenient reason is for personal reasons. And I believe that everyone in this room, and even more broadly, knows that it wasn't about personal reasons, but he had to step down. I would also like to mention the employment of a person who had been dealt with in the past for serious crimes in the field of sexual harassment in the workplace, mobilebing. The current leadership, at the moment, has in every way sought to re-engage this person, but they have not agreed to do so in the service of the Director-General of Police and not even in the internal investigation and integrity sector, I think so. As a result, three of them left, the head of the SGDP and two of them, who were then the head of this sector for internal affairs and integrity. A negative test for this person has become positive, and this man works for the police. I don't know how the current coalition would react to receiving information that under documents held by the Ministry of the Interior, the police, and where the Director-General of the Police should be signed by the Secretary of State, who is a politician. The Commission will continue its work in this regard. In this regard, the Commission will try to reach the bottom of the matter whether or not such documents exist or exist. And then, of course, follow further steps. I myself assess that the biggest problem with the current policy is that it does not tolerate criticism. If there is already a situation, pressures, controls, relocations, work groups are being set up for those who express criticism; and these are obvious cases. One of them, known to all, is the obstruction of the appointment of European Delegated Prosecutors, who have been investigating certain things in the past. The last case, given that he himself has been exposed to the media, I will also name him Vlado Ščavnicar, I know him personally very well, the man in place. He dared to describe the situation as it was in the police, followed by a sanction – the cancellation of the contract as an auxiliary officer and the refund of the net amount of the payment received for the last 12 months, of course equipment and so on. He was told that he was morally injuring the police with his statements. Where did this damage come from? Nowhere. Was he critical of leadership? Of course he was. And if someone evaluates the critical work of leadership, it's not really a matter of disrespecting the police. Here, of course, it is the insult of the highest officials in the police and the criticism of closing their mouths in some way, but at the same time there is a fear that someone else would not dare to do something similar. It is sad that a man with more than 30 years of work, left his soul in the police line, still wanted to help with his experiences as an auxiliary officer, then someone in such a way cancels, not only reprisals, also punishes. Then came the union stories. Because they dared to be critical, controls followed, along with these controls limiting the number of their union hours, and now they are going to the units and working there. And they don't work a hundred percent anymore, but they can, of course. Okay. Here, too, we can see whether it is a matter of actually regulating some legal standards, whether it is a form of revenge or discipline. The following example of the discipline of the gentleman or, if you like, of the former President of the General Assembly, Mr Ganttar. He's got a depth. Why was there no fine for "lenouses" and "mews"? Not only was there no fine, there was no reaction from the Director-General of Police, although he was invited. He didn't even define himself on that. This is evidence of how independent and up-to-date the Director-General of Police is in his views and principles. He announced in the Gantar case that the labelling of police officers with plaintiffs — those policemen who daily risk their safety, that we all live safer — is uncultured and unacceptable. What about "mews" and "lenouchi"? Here are the double criteria that actually put the police leadership in position, that it has double criteria and that it does not work as it should. I'll call back later. I'd just say that, here I've just stooped down a few things that the highest police officers have ever done. Where is the responsibility of the politicians, where is the responsibility of the minister and others, that is, the secretaries of state? So subjective, in particular in an abandoned sense, because they have not done anything to prevent these things that I have spoken about now; nor have they demanded responsibility for all or at least warned of the conduct of managers in dispute, but have been silent and have thus agreed to all these practices. Of course, objective responsibility shows that we are all politicians or all politicians in certain situations responsible for all acts committed by their subordinates and not in accordance with the law. I believe that the conclusions are still quite effective, that the Commission has done its job well, that this is not a matter of being offensive and harmful to this government, but that this has simply become enough to expose it. And that's why this committee did its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The word is Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Vice President. Let me first say that I very much welcome this new arrangement when the debaters are written on screens, so that the citizens at home can also – they are probably meant to have the National Assembly broadcast on the television programme – see in advance who is in line for the debate. They may wait for their popular Member or Member representing their party or their territory. I think it's a very nice solution and I welcome it, as I say. Now for today's darkness. I am also a member of the Commission of Inquiry, which notes the political involvement in the work of the police and identifies the political responsibility of the holders of public functions due to the political impact on the flow or outcome of forecasting procedures. And I must say that as a member who was present at most of these hearings, I am also convinced that this interference and influence, as defined in the constitution of this parliamentary inquiry, has undoubtedly taken place. For this purpose, the Parliamentary Investigation Commission has come to know a very large number of materials, heard a very large number of witnesses, and most of them have confirmed this. Since my colleague from NSI argued that 17 witnesses opposed such allegations, it is unclear to me. I hope he will debate, and I now call on him to tell which witnesses of all those who have been interrogated have denied this, in his opinion. What we could hear those who were there is that immediately after the new government's appearance, there was a huge change in the police force. People have actually been replaced at all levels. And what bothered me the most was people who were working on specific predictive or criminal proceedings. Having someone appoint a new police director when changing government, I can understand, this is clearly a practice in Slovenia, I can understand any other change if it seems to the director that he needs a different team. It is difficult to understand, however, that people who work in specific predictive and criminal proceedings are being replaced. And these procedures, which are absolutely in the public interest and in procedures where people with difficulty and high expectations are waiting for answers that those involved or even accused should wish to be completed as soon as possible if they are innocent. But if not, of course, the situation is different. Therefore, it was one of my standard questions that I asked every time I asked a question to which of the Witnesses that I was interested in the opinion of these specific witnesses and more of them, whether specific changes, changes in people, had affected that criminal or predestination procedures were taking place more slowly. I would absolutely say yes. Anyone who knows these things for a little bit, even if you don't know them, even if you look at them so much in life, if someone starts something, learns, goes deeper, some work, then this person has to go and someone comes back completely, it's clear that there's a backlog, a deadlock, and that what we've seen in our country multiple times can eventually lead to a review of things with each other. In particular, if the court in which a particular case is to be tried decides for seven months on local jurisdiction, whether the court in place of X or in place of Y should decide seven months. But if I go back to this investigative committee, I have been personally hurt by the testimony of some of the changed people who still haven't really understood what they actually did wrong to be replaced. They are convinced that they acted professionally, that they acted ethically, that they acted in accordance with all the rules that the police have. They've been building their careers, maybe for a long time, and then, I mean, they've been at the wrong place at the wrong time and they've been replaced. Criminal investigators with long experience in their work, including the former director of police, have been transferred to the working group, now be careful to identify delays in the field of migration. People who have worked their entire lives to investigate criminal proceedings were, without anyone asking, transferred to this newly established Commission of Inquiry to shorten migration procedures. They had to leave their offices, where they worked for years, leave the building where they were used to going to work, move to Tacen, that's obviously one penal colony now became, and there they worked in this task force. Or if they had a little more luck, they could have started teaching there. And then comes in mockery and with the greatest possible irony to the whole matter, Mr Olaj says he is truly grateful to these gentlemen and ladies who have had so much experience that they are now participating in such an important working group as the Working Group to address the backlogs in the field of migration. In a mockery of all of us and these people. Two of them or three of them, I've already forgotten because there were so many, they retired early — and these are young people, these are people over 50 — who have retired because they were so degraded. Among them is Mr, we will not be named by the names that were responsible at the time, on duty in the operating room, or what is it called when that matter was in the Market of the Republic, when for a moment it indicated that there would be a conflict of yellow vests with the protesters. He reacted the way he thought it was right to prevent some conflict, some kind of conflict. He had to react as he did at such times of habit, at the moment, according to the information he had. And on the explicit question: "Did the information you had at that time require such a reaction and such a decision?" he said three times that yes and that with all his professional competence and all his experiences at that time he could not do otherwise. Then he was called to account, and he was dealt with publicly and so on. And his story ended with his early retirement in the end. Look at the fragment, what a coincidence that he retired right now. What worries me the most about these matters is the message given to the police. On the contrary, coalition supporters said – yes, that was always done, and everything always changed in the police force. Also some witnesses – Yes, because I was replaced, and so on. I don't care about that. As a member and representative of the people, as the elected representative of the people, I have no interest in whether this has already been done. If he did, he shouldn't, and he shouldn't. I cannot speak for others, but I can say for the client of the SAB, for our president, when the President of the Government, the police ministry or the Ministry of the Interior were never there, because we were very few together — not even three years — members of the government, I can say for us that this is not our way of working. Because what's left of you when you lose independent cops? But not independent; professional, those who know how to do something. We are not some multimillion-dollar and multi-million-million-dollar country that we would have 100 in line with the same competences and knowledge for any man who has been replaced, we are not. And that's why it's so much more valuable that some people who know something and know how to do criminal proceedings, prosecute crimes, don't just replace them and get them out of the system because you don't have any others. And what will we do after we run out of people chasing crime? Not just business or financial or political crime, if I say so, but ordinary crime, organised crime, for example. We'll say, "Oops, now we've run out of cops who've been disappointed to leave the police and go somewhere else?" Even if this has ever happened in the past or has happened, I don't care about it at all, it's an investigative commission that was meant to determine whether this has happened now. And given what I've heard, I think it is. And the fact that these people, of course, lacked a number of offers that are nowhere in Slovenia, were replaced by some people who had been dealt with before either because of suspicions of crimes, crimes, or, say, in these predictive or internal protection procedures, that is, for the first time, a sign that we have few people. Secondly, I ask you how someone who has one of these negative experiences behaves. Do you think he can be objective and impartial and reasonable? It can't be. And this, my people, that we have in our country as Secretary of State right at Mr Kangler's Ministry of the Interior, which has been, let's leave everything else now, in 20 plus criminal proceedings, has ended, let's say, without a conviction. But do you think how many angers and frustrations and anger and everything that's alive, maybe even justified, I don't know, I'm not going to get into this right now, is it?Oh, my God! And such a man is now in a position to deal with all those who he thinks have ever done him wrong. I don't think it can happen anywhere else than with us. Not always with us, but only in the government of Janez Janša. Well, in Ukraine, not in Ukraine, in Belarus it can be possible, in Russia, I don't know. In short, also how Mr Kangler behaved at the beginning, how he vehemently stepped into this investigative commission and so on, but fine, it ended well. The president of this commission of inquiry has reacted slightly differently and slightly better than the president of one other commission of inquiry, but let's just say – President Perič, who left us there, I will now exhale twice before saying something strange, a double doctor humiliated as an institution and as individuals and as Members. [[…]] At least that didn't happen here. And if I finish slowly, I – and I have been warning all these years since I have been in this National Assembly – have not been so worried about individual events, I am concerned about some trends, some sequences of events, which then, of course, form a larger picture. And this image is scary and completely wrong for some normal functioning democracy. This investigative commission has dealt with the pressures within the police, the human resources exchange, the impact on procedures, if not otherwise, I am not talking about any other influence now, this was not part of this investigative commission, the influence on procedures by replacing the key people working in this process. What's the message to the police? Don't blow your head up, keep your head down, worry about yourself, ask as little as possible, and you'll stay in your place of work. It's on the police level. Then he comes to this National Assembly and wants to make an investigative commission, where they want to deal in concrete proceedings with prosecutors and judges, if we are now politicians, different educations, colors and forms, to say whether the prosecutors and judges have acted in accordance with the law. Watch it, the politicians will say it. Fortunately, then, the Constitutional Court says that this is not possible, as we all know, the principle of the division of power and so on, it is legal, closed matters and so on. Then we have two prosecutors who are supposed to be European Delegated Prosecutors who have done nothing wrong, as they were once in one proceeding. I think that we have learned, in the meantime, that some of Mr Janša's assets have been seized or have already been taken from politicians; they could not have become a delegated prosecutor. The whole country has been in shame for how many months, the European Union has been looking at us; only because they were once involved. On the other hand, one large number of prosecutors that the government doesn't want to name, because they're not real because the prosecution didn't propose the right ones. On the other hand, two supreme judges — not named in this House of the National Assembly because one of them, six years ago, was in the Senate in a higher court, part of a Senate that did not expel one judge in the Kangler case. Is that what you think? That's why he can't become a supreme judge. Then, last week, the Committee on Justice, where we are discussing with the help of a very cooperative supreme judge, is meeting to see whether we Members will now see whether Mr Maslesha fulfils all the conditions or not. Put everything on the table, we'll tell them if they do. Let us let him be appointed three times in this national council to perform his function for 30 years, to have someone hire him, to name him, to examine him; now we will look if he does or does not. And when you put all these pictures together with this investigative committee, the painting is scary. I don't even have time to think about it. I will support the findings of this investigative commission. This conclusion that we are asking them to resign is, of course, quite something, because we all know it, but it is only right to speak publicly that it is. And once again, if it was before or wasn't or something, I don't care at all. It's not right. Some institutions must act independently, otherwise democracy is at risk. Yeah, I forgot to say that. Madam, who is now leading the NPU, our most important law enforcement authority, on the explicit question of how many investigative matters she had in her career, said - I don't know. And the colleague said, if you could at least say roughly, I don't know, more than 50, more than 10, more than 5, more than 0. Did Mrs. Director say more than 0? She said – Well, can you tell if this is and she answered finally – more than 1. [[...]] More than 1. And now she's the head of the Bureau of Investigation. And I'm not saying that she's a bad girl, or that she's in trouble with her, or that she doesn't have some kind of education, but you can't run an organ like that without being able to tell your fellow investigators, advise them, take sides, and understand if you have more than one thing done. I will support this report and conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The next one gets the word Nick Prebil. I would ask all the debaters to concentrate on the content of the report, but not on all the other externalities that have absolutely no connection with the specific work of the investigative commission. They don't. [[advertising from the hall]] Nick Prebil, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Vice President. Friends and colleagues, hello! This interim report of the Commission of Inquiry in essence shows, in some basic way, what this policy is, in fact, to say, not this policy, but this largest ruling party of the SDS at the head and those who manage the Ministry of Internal Affairs wants to achieve what is being done at the Ministry of the Interior. So it's a complete subordination of the system as such. Full headship of those who have their opinions, those who feel otherwise, and those who disagree with the way this ruling policy is handled. That, Vice-President, you will not be able to tell me that I am going too far, even though some of these things need to be touched, I will really focus on what has been heard on the Commissions of Inquiry and what this Interim Report contains. And that's next. This government has carried out about a thousand 400, approximately, human resources exchanges, a large proportion of which are in the police force. But, Your Honor, even those who accompany us outside are not to be underestimated. This number is large and the aim of all of this is to transform society by some key, which is not very close to most; it is close to those involved. We have seen a number of testimonies, some of which have come to be seen on this investigative committee led by colleague Medved. On some grounds, though, these testimony are very well followed, and this story of pressure on these people, this story of human resources cleansing, this story of one opinion — the one that Minister Hojs has. The first thing you could focus on was that famous testimony, which is once again one of the ministers, because here there are several ministers involved in this, placed in such a ridiculous position when a letter of instructions was found on him to act in the event of an investigation. And it was quite clear that this information did not come from the media, as the Minister and the Secretary of State had accused them, but it was quite clear that these things came from the Minister of the Interior's office. And then even instructions leaked to the subjects — those associated with the SDS client. Here is the first thing that shows very clearly that the involvement in the pre-trial and criminal proceedings of the Ministry of the Interior has, of course, also taken place and is happening. And I think that's something to be judged harshly. If I move forward, perhaps at the beginning when these immediate concessions followed — do not give up, we will say change, and then resign. Recall Mr. Travner, who resigned with the Minister. Only Mr. Travner is gone, the minister is still here. But why did he resign? Not even because he called one office, asked for first-hand information and gave some instructions, but because the minister then found that he had to sacrifice someone so that he could keep himself in this place and continue to perform this personnel cleaning that he was doing. And if anyone thinks, what I usually hear from that side, Dr. Olay, the Director-General of Police, he is in charge of the staffing and there is no one else; if someone here tells me that the Minister doesn't know what's going on, that the Director-General of Police is doing it for the first time, or that he has himself as a fool, because most of this place is hard to think of as a fool, or if he doesn't understand anything, because it's clear that the Minister is the one who gives the Director-General instructions. Not only does he give them to him, he gives them to him publicly, he tweets to him what to do. And he does it, and then there's another one. These things are shocking, and these things point to a desire, this sick desire for this police rule really at some top level in the history of our country. Because everything we see now — that people who have worked for 40 years in the police, who are two years before their retirement, leave the police themselves because they say that such pressures and such treatment of employees have not yet been experienced, and they want to withdraw from it — shows the problem we have. And not just that, let's say the data on how much confidence in the police led by Aleš Hojs has fallen. This confidence of the public is at the lowest level of our country. It's still falling. Of course, after what the Secretary of State has witnessed, let's leave those potato affaires with the onion – well, one secretary of state went for bananas, but these are other things – the Secretary of State made it clear during his testimony, or I don't know, he must have shown reluctantly that he was involved in certain investigations and also premonitional procedures, but all right, I'll get there. I'm still going a little further within the commission of inquiry. We have also seen that not one, but both police unions now no longer trust the leadership of the police and the Director-General. It may still be necessary to recall here the fact that one of these two unions was sometimes strong on the right hand side or on the current authority, and it is obvious that it is also there that the own people set up by this government do not trust this policy anymore. And we have also seen this with many departures from these people or with substitutions, but those who are humble and nostalgic who have no opinion and do what they are asked to do. And if I may return to Mr. Travner for a moment. On that first day, the famous one, when Janša's government swore, was immediately flown away by Tatjana Bobnar. And in fact, this director, Travner, made it clear that the only condition for him to get this town was to get rid of immediately the director of the NPU Dark Male, which we saw, among other things, and that is still in force, was this exchange illegal and this decision is still illegal. And what? Nothing. But it doesn't matter to this minister and this team behind him because, of course, there is something else in the background, and that is, once again, the management of the entire police sector. Then another director said, among other things, that they had withdrawn into one of these groups, which was previously discussed by a colleague Kociper. And here, the Secretary of State has already told us, and also on the committee, that they are working on these groups, they are dealing with important files; while they themselves say they have no access to anything other than e-mail. There they sit in one office, but of course for their many work experience they receive an appropriate payment, but, you know, the state has none of it. These people are being withdrawn to keep quiet because this policy doesn't like them. Not because we would not do well, but because they are superior, they are withdrawn, but because some work they disagree with or were once part of another government, perhaps a director’s position in some other government. And this reputation, as we say, is going to be lost and it's going to be very, very hard to get back. Then another police officer testified. He left the police on a voluntary basis after 30 years. For 13 years he led the Internal Investigations and Integrity Branch and, since he was critical to the appointment of these individuals, who corresponded only to the client card, to the leading positions without any relevant competence and without professional authority, of course he flew away. And he flew away with so much pressure that he left the police alone, because you just can't fire someone, so you're pulling them off to some task force, doing what they're doing. These witnesses have also made it very clear and I think that this is also now proven that the orders for this change of personnel came not only from the minister, but also from the cabinet of President of the Government, from Gregorčič. So who goes somewhere, who needs to be removed, who needs to be demolished in such a way that, in fact, he won't even act quietly anymore, he'll be so afraid of things that he won't be involved. And if I go to perhaps one last part of this commission of inquiry, this is essentially the testimony of these key witnesses in this matter; those who are currently in the lead positions. Mr Kangler, of course, said on this committee, as I said before, that the staff decisions were taken by the Director-General. And we all know that after all these meetings and after all that the Director-General has with the Secretary-General and, of course, with the Minister, it is clear that these instructions come into the hands of the Director-General from other parts. It's also one of the secretaries of state who said he didn't want to meet some people in the hallway, so they've moved them to other offices, and that kind of thing, which basically indicates, as I said before, some sick desire to control the system and to withdraw everyone who thinks otherwise. After being asked about the employment of this new Director-General of the NPU, who, inter alia, was once again in this place illegally, without any competence or experience, as a colleague has said, she has even investigated one case in her extensive career! It was rather a problem to know this kind of knowledge with this rude tax advisor that we saw in the National Assembly. And you're gonna, what's the problem now if someone's friends with someone, and what's in it for me? It's not really about friendship, it's never about friendship. It was about the fact that this policy put us in one of the key places in the country at the National Bureau of Investigation dealing with the worst economic crime, investigating it, putting us on a person who, excuse me, has no idea of the concept. And that former director, who dared to criticize this government and the Prime Minister of the Government, who had many years of experience, many large-scale and publicly-known cases that he coordinated, coordinated, not least led to some conclusions, but he left because he was not from the right basket. He didn't have a real client card. These witnesses, of course, are somehow very clear and this interim report also shows how systematically these staff clearances are being carried out and how they are being interfered with in these predictive procedures. We have seen a number of cases open up, suspicions or suspicions of these acquisitions with medical devices during a pandemic or an epidemic, and many others. And then we see from one supporter of this government how to fly into this National Assembly the Penal Code, which is, of course, a thank God that essentially wants to make all this obsolete. If you connect a nice little story into one whole and have a wider picture and information from one end and the other, you can clearly see that the goal of everything is to get under the rug, to get people who know about it to withdraw or trample otherwise, in a different way, so that it will not be discovered and searched what is burdened the largest government party of the SDS, and these are numerous corruption issues, controversial procurement, illegal financing of a party from abroad and so on and so on. Such a political responsibility of those involved, I think, is clearly proven, here the members of the commission of inquiry will most likely agree 100% in the opposition, those in the coalition will defend themselves, no matter what. Even these separate opinions that have been made are perfectly legitimate, I have no problem with this, but it is actually a charade and a back cover, irrespective of the infringements that have actually been proven. Some proverb says: Loyalty to the grave Or how is it going? [[…]] That's how this story puts pressure on our police, Slovenian, actually withdraws experts, withdraws people who know something. And, as it is said, the conclusion that no one can deny, because it is already proven, everything else will continue to solve the prosecution and the courts, points not only to the fact that this ruling policy is affecting the police, but actually orchestrates the whole case with its supporters, including coalition partners. Today we have seen some lies again, in the end one will say to the camera outside that the report was unanimously rejected, as we hear, but in fact one part of the Members is voting otherwise but good, because it doesn't matter. That's a different story. It's about the fact that the untruths, the lies, if you want, started to appear in this house, and somehow on the right side happens that more times when a lie is told, it will become the truth, but I assure you it won't. All of what is happening, all of these personnel cleaning, are already showing up somewhere in the professional collapse of the Slovenian police. The fact that trust, as I said, has fallen strongly and also the attitude that those in the highest positions of the Ministry of the Interior have is extremely arrogant and bad and I think it affects society as a whole. So again; what you are doing and what the mid-term report on this investigative committee points out is actually the liquidation of the police as a citizen service. This must always remain the service of citizens and citizens, not of a ruling coalition party or of a government in power. I am not surprised, however, that if your own ministers are accused of not holding me to the floor, I apologize, it was a lapsus, which are in the process of suspicious crime-absorbing documents, and anything else, in some predictive procedures with some unknown sources of property and so on and so on. I don't know, but maybe we'll see another working group by the end of the term, and I don't know what other backlogs are in the police force. That's how I'm gonna stop here slowly. However, in the LMŠ, I must say that we clearly do not agree and will never agree to such a policy as the largest government party goes, and we will not agree that such pressure is exerted on police officers, on those who do not agree with this ruling policy, because, just as a true colleague, we are not all the same many times and we will never be. Thank you very much. Of course, I will support this report myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I'm asking for peace in the hall! The next one gets the word Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u100	Thank you very much, chairman. Well, the point today is that the investigating parliamentary commission, which he confirmed, has therefore elected, the National Assembly, claims that there has been a political impact on the functioning of the police, and two MPs who claim that this has not been the case. So, on the one hand, we have a decision by the elected commission, a decision by the Commission, and on the other, a member defending his party, and a contract member of the same coalition, who notes something beyond the commission's mandate. And that's what we're discussing here today. But political involvement was a fact. The contentions or details of the motives are those that should be further explored, and I believe that my colleague, Medved, will also analyse them more in the final report. Motives are important. Political involvement started immediately on 13 March 2020. It's never happened before that the head of police leadership would fly off at the government's founding session. First time! With the masks on his face, that's what happened. I don't know, maybe some kind of symbolism. I'm not going to let that happen. I'm not going to let that happen. I'm not going to let that happen. But what matters is what happened after this first exchange. In fact, Minister Hojs constantly acknowledges the political impact on recruitment in all public performances – except in the police, although he runs this department personally. But he's forgetting something. Even today, we have not heard what it says in the resignation statement itself: “Despite the staff exchange at the police summit and the exchanges carried out by the police director-general, I estimate that the udbov-party structure of the decisive police work in connection with the prosecution and the judiciary of the same province is so strongly anchored in the system that, with the existing legislation and powers that I have as a minister in relation to the police, it does not allow effective depolitication and changes in the police.” As instructed by the minister, the Director-General of Police conducted exchanges for the depoliticisation of the police. More importantly, what followed. A little while ago, we Members discussed the Police Act, where we pointed out exactly that it allows for the politicisation of police personnel exchanges. We were very loud, but apparently unsuccessful. Because in blind reading your political currents, you never employ politically — do you? You do not invite the directors of the electricity distribution companies together with the secretary-general of the party to Parliament to meet with the leader of the parliamentary group – you never do this! No, you don't name the new head of SDH, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board in Luka Koper and elsewhere or, say, in the leadership of the DUTB. Don't you ever do that! Your candidate for Director Furs visits individual financial offices during the pre-candidature period and inquires about specific tax inspectors – that is not what you do!
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u101	My friend Pavšič [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u102	Can I please finish, mate?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u103	Please return to the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u104	I'll be back.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u105	Right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u106	Will you take my word for it?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u107	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u108	Here you go, come on!
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u109	We're not talking about the investigative commission's report. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u110	Sure. And that's all connected to the investigative commission's report, because it points to the modus operandi. And [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u111	Because the specific content of the investigation is different. With Kangler and others, the contents of the investigation were different. Not what you're saying.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u112	Well, I'll be back. Don't worry. Since you are politically incorruptible, you have established a Slovenian political dogma and are constantly insisting on it. These were just a few moments, which is happening in the field of political recruitment. Very dangerous recruitment, where only a party card is important; not the one from sometimes, red with a yellow star. Let us remember only the acquisition of protective equipment and Minister Restovalska; what my colleagues have already highlighted. He was warned that he would have a house investigation, and there is even a letter of instructions on what needs to be done in the context of a house investigation. Hoys then stepped down and I read it. Otherwise, the envelope stays closed, but probably the fingers were too fast, and on Twitter he published a full letter to the Prime Minister. Well, the envelope remained closed, and the minister, who resigned irrevocably, is still the minister, although it says beautifully in the Constitution that you are the minister until your resignation. The Rules of Procedure also saved the President of the Government and the Minister from actually not being formalised. Well, he also resigned from Travner, the general director of the police. Stand down because he couldn't stop it, as Mr. Hoys wrote, from doing the udbov-party checks. What? Criminal acts? To thank you, what happens? It's an accident again, isn't it, he gets a job at Dars, where once again, Prime Minister Darsa is the vice president of the party in this coalition. Mr Hajdinjak is Vice-President of the Party, becomes Prime Minister of Dars and employs Mr Travner. It was an accident! No political connections, because it was an invitation to tender, probably for this job. First, the call was for the President of the Management Board and then the call was also for the post of Board Counsellor. It didn't go by phone lines, by any political lines. And then in the presentations today, I hear how the police, under Mr Hojs' leadership, are getting better and better, and more and more crime is being investigated. Great! You know, I'm more concerned about how many percent of the crimes have not been investigated. I am more concerned about how many percent of crimes have not been investigated because they are against the wrong people; and who stopped them and how they have been stopped. Those who listen attentively to people from the Ministry of the Interior at all committees, hearings and other performances, often between the lines or also directly notice, for the last time, the secretary at the Ministry of the Interior accidentally admits to the committee that he has access to the narrative files. Yeah, wait a minute, this can't be happening! And that is exactly what this parliamentary commission is investigating. The easiest thing to say is no. Two witnesses opposed, the whole series of other witnesses confirmed political interference and now, these two witnesses are more credible than those n-witnesses that are significantly more. It's not working! It can't go on and on because it's wrong, no matter who the investigations are. Whoever committed the crime, the crime, has to answer! But this selection, which will be investigated and who will not be investigated, is beyond my understanding, and probably even the perception of a lot of people, about the question of the rule of law, about honesty. So no, it won't work. [[…]] Free file, said colleague Kaloh on to the Free File! [[…]] The President of the Commission was insulted by the Members who were elected to this commission of inquiry. Shame on you, be ashamed of you, for it is the total rejection of Members and all those who work on any commission of inquiry! Then he dares to measure his credibility by being a party colleague with the former minister! My colleague Kaloh is the chairman of the Commission, who has investigated the current secretary at the Ministry of the Interior and is the judge of the same coalition. You're fraternizing with him without any restrictions. So when this happens on one side, it's controversial, it affects credibility, and you're fine. It's not like that! Let's at least not like the restroom jump first, then say hop. Present your arguments, present your opinions, not insult your colleagues, because each of us here is equal to the other, whether he sits here or behind the chair. We are all equal and of every voice applies the same! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u114	Thank you. Good-bye to all of you! What's the oldest left-wing trick? To point your finger at someone else and write down everything you've done, do it, and want to do it yourself in the future. The oldest left-wing trick that has characterized the entire 20th century and, as this meeting proves today, is, of course, also used by you in the 21st century. How do we know that elections are coming in Slovenia? Very simple. First, left-wing men flee from a referendum on income, on raising wages that they themselves have moved. Then SWIZ announces the strike, the most red unions in Slovenia, the apolitical couple of excellence. Then no journalist comes to the government press conference on aid due to higher energy prices, and the Society of Journalists of Slovenia begins to function as a pigeon ornithological society. The KUL and also the general public at this time are slowly aware of how right I was when I warned that a good government is better in hand than a Golob over the head, and then you come to this Parliament with a proposal for the discharge of a minister and state secretaries who is completely unfounded, unreasonable and hair-attracting, which is a common element of this and a number of other things. What you have all along seen by the existing government and, of course, you are doing it yourself, and it is now visible that this is creating an extraordinary situation, the destruction of Slovenia. What does the story now teach, say, and the American elections, some of the European elections that we have been able to observe in recent months? Wherever leftists perform today, they create an extraordinary situation. You remember the BLM ferocity, called Black Lives Matter, and the Antipheus on American streets? Twenty-two dead were also wounded, billions of damage, and now suddenly peace. Yes, of course, because the elections are over! And you are doing exactly the same thing in Slovenia, which is why red union strikes are forecasting, so you want to get rid of the minister to make it difficult for the police to make it harder to ensure people's safety so that people don't feel safe, and then you expect that from the extraordinary conditions you create yourself, you will also benefit politically. That's the whole point of what you're really doing! It's all your tactics at the polls. You're a coalition of hatred because you don't have any positive programs from the Gob, to the SD, to the Left, to the KUL, or whatever it's called. You are surrounded by one single opposition to the existing government: we will not cooperate with the SDS and anyone who supports the existing government. And so on. These are pranks that have nothing to do with politics, by the way. In a normal country, those with such a start shouldn't get one vote, but unfortunately that's the tactic that the left-wing campaign uses today around the world. And that is what you are today enforcing with these proposed conclusions in this National Assembly. On what are you to base these conclusions? You're saying political submission to the police. I've never heard more nonsense in my life. This is said by those who had a human tenderness for 70 years, who had recently clapped while some of the demonstrations on the right and left the lions in peace, even though the lions were spitting at those rights and threatened them and swerved at them and provoked them. In short, they acted like human militia until recently. But that was fine. Because you had them under your command. Now that the police, under this minister and under this leadership, have begun to become real police, neutral, professional, highly efficient, and they have been provided with adequate working resources, enough money, increased wages, taken care of all the necessary equipment, created conditions for work, such as the police in Slovenia have not yet had, and now you would have relieved the minister and the secretary of state. Yeah, run! You're transparent so we can't be any more. But it's about creating emergency situations so that people don't feel safe anymore, so that you can get political profit out of the extraordinary circumstances you created yourself. But of course, this game, you know, works until someone spreads it out, and when you say it like that, it's as simple as I'm doing right now, and people see what's really going on. And that's what it's gonna be about. In these elections, there will be only one choice: on one side of the current coalition, i.e. builders of Slovenia, and on the other, those who destroy Slovenia, i.e. destroyers of Slovenia. And that's what you do every single day. That's why sentences are now forecasting, so damage is forecasting, so it wants to get rid of a minister who is doing an excellent job with his team, and that's why emergency situations are being created. Because you care about the safety of people, the quality of life, the welfare! How many homes did you set up for the elderly in all those years when the leftist governments were themselves? Not a single one! Not one.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u115	My friend Grims. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u116	And you keep saying it all the time on every single thing that could happen, and it doesn't even get there.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u117	My friend Grimes, please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u118	Mr President, as you well know, I am simply opening up the game which is ahead of us today and which is also the essence of the proposed conclusions that are going in the direction of resolution. And about [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u119	I understand. Just the content of the report, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u120	I'm talking about nothing else. [[…]] At the same time, it is clear that certain personnel changes have been made. Let's see how that used to be. Does anyone else remember that when a right-wing government was replaced once, those rare right-wing governments that were in Slovenia had a shorter time frame, although at the first session I say this because Mr Pavšič said that there was no known case here, at the first post-election session of the new government, they replaced, if memory doesn't deceive me, about 420 people. He's sitting on one of his own! Have you heard any screams about the flood, the personnel tsunami, the cleaners, I don't know what? Here, the government replaces one, two, in the perspective of replacing, say, 100 personnel, who have always padded and dressed somewhere in Slovenia, gradually and with a professional committee, which the police themselves would have designed and it has already done, but that is terrible. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, when we should really be dealing with one investigation of what these people were doing. Because a lot of data is talking about how, if someone was irreplaceable, it was a decade, more than a few even after more at the head of a police administration, how it was then reflected in the work there. Some looked at themselves because they were colleagues, some of whom were not; but these human relationships formed a relationship that then had little in common with professional work. But he had a lot of politics. Yeah, because that was your shot. In this way you ensured that you were first-class and everyone else second-class. And, of course, you're in pain today. You're in pain of this power abstinence because you've been suspended from power and things are no longer completely totalitarian under your arm. You still have them: you have the media in your hands, you have the judiciary in your hands, you have a huge part of the state administration, you have in your hands the services of the National Assembly, and you have something else to count. You know that better than I do. If there's anything else I've forgotten about Aya, you've got the NGOs in your hands. [[…]] And, of course, in such circumstances, it is difficult for the state to function successfully. The Ministry of the Interior, too. This has been a great success for the current government and for this minister. Under the most difficult conditions, they provided adequate security, an adequate level of safety, welfare, emergency measures, and all that was necessary. It is perfectly normal for one team in any company, if you want, or in the country, to form other personnel, so that it can do its work even more effectively. This is the most normal thing in the world, and you all know it, but you're making a circus out of it; while you've been changing people on your own political lines to say it can't, once you've made it impossible, force others. That's no problem, because they were yours. What was the aim of this government in the area of the Ministry of the Interior and I say that it has done well is to establish a highly efficient, professional, neutral police which will fully ensure the security of people and perform its work. And so did he. As well as all police activities in Slovenia have been carried out recently, especially in recent months, this has simply not happened. All honor to the Ministry and its team! You'd go and change that! To make sure, of course, that people no longer feel safe, to restore their informal forms of influence, if you want, even to the work of the police, which was truly political under your leadership, and now it is no longer, and it really hurts you. As long as the police are completely left-handed, that's fine with you, but when it becomes neutral, that's political influence. Yes, because it is a political influence to ensure the neutrality of police work. Which, by the way, ladies and gentlemen, if you read the law and whoever brought this today is obviously not, you should at least know that the duty of a minister under the law is not just a right, an obligation to give guidance to the work of the police. And you read to the minister that he was doing according to the law, which is perfectly absurd and just confirms what I stressed at the beginning. All choice of these elections will be the choice between the builders of Slovenia, between the current government, the coalition at the head of the SDS, and the destroyers of Slovenia are called leftists with everyone from SD, Left, there to the Golob, and LMŠ, and Sab with anyone else you can give to those who destroy Slovenia because you are only one thing: for power. If you were referring to Slovenia, today, with such a proposal as you have written down, you would certainly not have come to the National Assembly and then would have acted differently and today, of course, would have sought a consensus on the key issues of the country, which is the only right thing to do, instead of predicting all possible strikes to block higher salaries for Slovenes, Slovenians, citizens and citizens with abuse of referendum legislation, which you are doing left-wing, you are making it impossible for people to pay higher wages. I mean, he's never seen this world before! And, of course, you predict further tightenings, transferring your behavior to the streets, so that people will not feel safe, hoping to be ambushed and voting for you. And I still believe in the mind and mind of the Slovenian people, I trust in their decision and they will not possess you. But we certainly don't today, at least I personally guarantee you that such conclusions as you have suggested, I would never support them in my dreams because they are unjust, they are rude and they are taking Slovenia to chaos; where you want them.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u121	Thank you very much. First of all, I'd like to ask everyone who's in the hall not to jump into the conversation and disturb the discussion. This applies to everyone in the hall. Now I'm making a procedural proposal to Natasha Sukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u122	Look, presidents, you're famous for consistently leading the sessions and alerting you when someone goes beyond the darkness. Ambassador Grims spoke first and foremost, which had nothing to do with this topic today, according to an interim report by the investigative commission. He used to talk here about his promoparoles, like we're already in the middle of a campaign, about builders and destroyers, about jokes about lefties and such nonsense. Could you please stop him, like you're stopping the rest of us? This would be my procedural suggestion that you are simply honest with everyone. If you're stopping us, stop this. Because this promospoto was really declassified. That's nice of you to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u123	Thank you, too. You must have been there in the hall. And I warned my colleague at the introduction, Mr. Pavšić, as well. I am not Masha Kociper, although she also had a discussion on other matters, also colleague Baković. That is, I hope the debate goes this way. We are talking about political influence. That's what we're saying. We're talking about politics in this area. And the opinions of Members are probably different. [[advertising from the hall]] So you know something. This address of the point is the same as the address of the investigative commission. Now I propose that we continue the debate. The word is Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All those who insist on a nice Friday afternoon greeting! Since I have been in this national assembly for quite some time and have listened to reports from various investigative commissions and their findings, I can only commend one thing. This is an effort by the President of the Commission of Inquiry to find out something. Unfortunately, it all ends. While we have identified abuse in the area of health care and the impact of policy on the health system, the impact of policies on how they helped to make billions disappear in Slovenian banks, and the evidence we have today, with all due respect for all of us, members of the investigative commission, because I myself have been a member of the investigative commission for some time, for a rather ridiculous investigative commission, I think it is even part of the evaluation of the investigative commissions. The Commission has tried to identify the potential political responsibility of public function holders due to the suspicion of unacceptable political interference with the work of the police. But all along, we talked about about about about five people who had been wronged because they were no longer where they had been under previous governments. We talked all the time about how the police were not doing the right thing in illegal protests, and these poor cops were suddenly the bad guys who broke up, even though they were actually - we all know - protecting public order and peace. And we were dealing with one cell phone and one fictitious loan of money. In short, instead of one serious investigative commission, it was about protecting ours. And that Members of the SD and the LMŠ are masters in protecting “ours”, the fact that they or their members have done as ministers of the Interior, as chiefs of the police and all other authorities, from the NPU further, if I focus on the role of the Ministry of Interior and sub-entities, what they have done. And now comes some evil minister and some evil police director who dares to replace five people! And the whole country's supposed to be on their feet, you know, how they frame. Just a quick look at the Google app tells us how brutally left-wing political actors were recruited when they controlled the MNZ or the police. And it was always just the same faction, the same line, the same policy, only the names changed: either the SAB or the LMŠ, they said or wrong SMC, SD and others. So it was brutal. So unfortunately, I find that Alesh Hoys is basically an amateur in the field of staffing. It's like they were hoping that he'd scramble a lot more than he was scrambling, because he'd just replaced a few people, some people went subjectively or objectively alone, and some of them went, like a bunch of police, shortly after 50 years of retirement. But this is what the story is trying to make; it's done where it's not, it's made by an investigative commission, and I'm saying that it's more for the protection of real or "our" or "not ours". So I have to say that as a member of this commission of inquiry for some time now, I have to say that I used to have a good time with friendly witnesses putting their words in their mouths, while at times they attributed insinuations to the enemy witnesses and tried to lure them into telling a sentence a little bit wrong or a little bit different and making stories out of it again. In short, I think maybe the desire was right to explore something, but to explore is like about the fear: there is nothing around it, but inside it is the same. We know how this thing works. In short, lots of dust, lots of meetings, little effect. On the other hand, matters are almost reversed from what the Commission of Inquiry has been trying to determine. The police are doing well, protecting our citizens. After all, their material condition improved. Perhaps there is only an appeal from this city to the leadership of the UN and the police that they may even provide police with new guns by the end of this mandate, as we have also provided new guns for employees in the Financial Administration. That these boys, especially those on the ground, would sometimes be more dangerous to themselves with obsolete weapons than to anyone else. I spoke to a friend of the police yesterday. We just happened to meet, and I asked him how long he's had his gun. Twenty-six years. I said yes, but he's not Zastava anymore, and he said no, but much better is no longer in use. Just a little mecca, a little past the investigative commission. I hope the police get new and better firearms as soon as possible. Maybe it's also because we passed the Weapons Act in this mandate and helped people close to the shooting sites that at least cops have to have silencers on the shootings. It's probably a little awkward for cops to practice in one-arm training courses, but then they go to work and have another weapon behind the belt. In short, the police are under this minister in this mandate, and especially under this direction the police have done well. Personally, when I was sitting as a member of this commission of inquiry, I thought there would be a lot more Romomomom about the NPU. Although I know we shouldn't have gone back too far to the past and to all the stories and accidents of the NPU, who was there, who was there, who was there, who was there, who was there, who was there, who was there, who was there, who was there, who was there, who was there, who was there, who was there, who was there, who was there, who was there, who was there? So I have to say that if two or three people at the NPU have changed to blow up this smell, the air inside the NPU, it's just positive and welcome. And finally, the results, unlike those who thought they'd be bad, are better, regardless of who's in charge of this organ. In short, instead of being a serious investigative commission to identify the political responsibilities of public officials, it was more about defending previous staff and comforting those personnel who lost their jobs. And if we're talking about five people, with all due respect, it's much less than we were talking about lost billions in banks and lost millions of overpaid health care and all that. In short, there's a lot of smoke, and there's no fire. That is why I myself cannot support an interim report, but even less, according to my few ridiculous conclusions that are prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u126	Chairman, thank you very much. In this round, I am the last debater, which I am kind of pleased with, because several times my separate opinion has also been mentioned. But we go in the order or the place where the esteemed debater ended up before me at the conclusions. Today it was really interesting to hear when also the member of the opposition, Maša Kociper, literally said, “the cellars are quite something”. More than that, the model would not agree, even with a colleague of Lisce, who also referred to these rather unrealistic conclusions, mag. Grimes also called them offensive, which is actually true. Now, to call on the minister and both secretaries to resign on the basis of actually also fairy tale facts or indications, then I will elaborate a little bit on this, it is really not serious not to say offensively. But only the report style itself is one, and yet the report also prescribes rules of procedure, it is said to have some form. In the interim report, certain witnesses were also identified as specimens. I noticed this, and it bothered me very much, even in my separate opinion that the Witnesses were marked as specimens. See, according to SSKJ, this is a weaker term. It was, of course, formerly a member of the GDP, Andrej Jurič. I even believe that the author of this part of the text was not a Member of the Medved text, which I otherwise respect, is corrected; perhaps it was a professional co-worker who planted it, but see that the witnesses in some serious report are referred to as specimens, that is also one of these insulting indications. I had previously pointed out that no relevant law had been referred to because I had really read the report in detail, but I noticed that the report referred to actual novels; see the actual novels. Let me tell you a quote. Swedish writer Fredrick Backman wrote in his novel We Against You: “The worst thing is knowing that we are dependent on others, that people with their actions affect our lives, not only those we choose, those we like, but also all others, also idiots.” Then the report goes on to say: “This complete dependence has been recognized by many police officers over the past two years.” Look, I hope to say that in the thirties of Slovenian Parliamentarianism no serious report, or eventually or intermediately, refers to novels. I've seen this for the first time in my life and, I mean, it's kind of funny to me, but look, because you have to refer to some serious facts, evidence and laws, not novels. I don't know how this could have ended up in the report, but maybe some professional associate didn't exactly do his job. It's been mentioned several times, as I said, this is my separate opinion. I'm happy with the fact. Previously, a Member of Parliament said that Member Prebil said that such separate opinions were legitimate. Yes, of course, what they should be like when they are in the final stages of the report! However, I would also refer to the expertise of this separate opinion and, above all, rely on the legislation in force. I didn't write about novels, and I don't know what, I was actually quoting marriages. Let us once again, honourable Members, also because of the Slovenian public, that they can think a little bit, right; it is true to refer to works of beauty and actually to laws. That seems very important to me. And look, what I've already said has completely weakened the legal framework. In particular, I mentioned three laws: the Law on State Administration. Why? In fact, it regulates this matter, its management, the ministry, the relationship to subordinate services and so on, including the decision of the Ministry in the administrative procedure. The Law on Public Servants in Articles 82 and 83 regulates the acquisition and termination of the positions of directors in the department; it is said that all that happened was in accordance with the law, and of course the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, which governs only the organisation and operation and management of the police. If the drafters of the Interim Report had consistently walked through the legislative decisions, they would have seen that everything was in accordance with the law, legally and professionally. Thus, these nebulos that we witnessed in this report would not have occurred, and even if there had been any relocations, referrals, all of this was in line with this particular Law on Organising and Working in the Police, specifically Articles 67 and 68 define this, and in the final phase it was said that when these transfers were made, more efficient work was being pursued. I don't know what's wrong. Every chairman, every professional chairman, and I estimate that Dr. Olay, even an academic among police officers, has this expertise and this has also been demonstrated in the testimony. It is called monitoring legislation and pursuing greater efficiency of work. Is that why he is a bad forerunner or even at the border with the law? Please! Even for honourable Minister Aleš Hojs, any seriously responsible Member may claim that his actions are absolutely in line with the oath made here, in the National Assembly, because he said he would respect constitutional order. Here it is quite clear and that it actually works for the well-being of the Republic of Slovenia in all the implementation that it does as a minister. As far as this famous group at the government is concerned. I think it's worth exposing here. Now it was said here that it was like a criminal colony and that they went there criminally. As far as I know, there have been really trained police officers there, with experience, and given that this interim report did not contain any indication that they are actually reporting on their work and that the Government is also considering their reports every three months, in January 2022 at the 109th regular meeting of the Government of Slovenia, where this working group for the effective protection of the state border has submitted even three proposals. So, they are working seriously, crediblely, they are pursuing an increase in the efficiency of the work of auxiliary police officers at the border, and then they have put forward here a proposal to identify possible technical solutions for even more effective protection of the state border. This is said to be the government at the meeting; it is not true that the Government and the police would not have any information regarding the work of this working group. It just doesn't hold. Go online to the government, read these reports and then create your own opinion. Not really before, a colleague there also claimed that she had not heard how many witnesses she had testified, except for two witnesses who took an insulted pose because you were just relieved; it is called Tatiana Bobnar and Boštjan Lindav. The third witness, Vesna Drole, was also in some kind of presumptive charge, but in fact 17 witnesses did not confirm suspicion, did not confirm suspicion, did not explicitly claim that someone was involved in police work or in the course of predictive and other proceedings. There were 17 witnesses who did not actually support this, so read the magnetograms. Even what was lacking in the part of the Interim Report itself or resulted in the writing of the Interim Report on the acts themselves. It is true that I was not a member at the time, but I have read in detail, after having had access to the records, that the commission of inquiry is precisely these witnesses and that I am reading to them in some way because of the political connections, because they were appointed during the term of Bosniak Poklukar, who is in fact a party colleague of the Commission's President, that there are some legitimate doubts about their impartiality of the witness. But what could the commission do? Lindava and Drolet’s wife, as well as Bobnar’s, could try some additional questions to ask the Witness where she knew what she was talking about or how to confront them. There has not yet been a confrontation on this commission of inquiry, I hope that we will check these cross-examinations just a little bit, because these three really do not seem to be credible witnesses. Further, statistical data. The statistics have also been completely lacking in the report, but we cannot see how far the police have actually progressed in the year, I don't know, 2020 and so on, as regards the investigation, the investigation of crimes. As I said, this police review shows it's even the highest in the last ten years, so it's not true. Now, if it really was such a bad negative climate, it would probably reflect on the work of the police, but as we can see, the police are doing great, even with their own activity, this proactive activity, this spectrum has also improved, that the police definitely don't feel I don't know, the markings have been intimidated, subordinated and so on, it just doesn't. However, as far as the assessment of this climate is concerned, I do not think we can do it, we do not have the knowledge to evaluate with some serious questionnaires and the climate parameters in the police. [[…]] I still think it's in the police and MNZ leadership domain, and they'll probably be dealing with it. These inadmissible revelations on the unacceptable way in which Slovenian police have acted by the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I stress once again, are very likely only for this function of disfigurement of the precisely selected political targets, in this case Minister Aleš Hojs, including the Government as a whole. It is also because if at least the report indicated, as my colleague Lisec had pointed out, that there could have been some intention in this area, in the sense of law, to do some kind of professional work, but it is indeed an abuse of this institution of parliamentary investigation, because the conclusions which were then written in the end are actually unrealistic in view of the fact that legislation was followed, positive, all the rules and so on. [[…]] As has already been said, personally, even as an SDS Member, I fully reject the essential findings, as well as the conclusions relating to alleged political responsibility, and the reports in this part, nor will I support the part of the conclusions. Not only my separate opinion, we have also received a separate opinion from Member Zmaj Jelinčič, where he is also very good at addressing this issue of the basic interim report. Thus, in the interim report, there are two separate opinions and it shows that a lot of mania has been done in writing; as I said before, from insulting indications, incoherence to quoting works of beauty. This simply does not involve one serious interim report, but it is necessary to have a respectful attitude towards all those who are being processed by this committee in one way or another, especially with regard to witnesses, and we must also treat them with respect in such reports. Let me just finish this, I wrote it down earlier. In fact, everything has been said, and I only appeal to the other Members that the report and the conclusions are not in fact worthy of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate, in which we will give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Rudy Medved. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, with all that said, but respected colleagues from the SDS party have talked a lot, I can finally draw the decision and I am pleased that they have not even rejected the essential findings. Of course, it is impossible for the witnesses to object to magnetograms, but they go peacefully over what people have confessed on the commission of inquiry. Of course, the easiest thing to do is to reject something and say that nothing is true. No arguments My colleague Kaloh says that the interim report is a free file, which I am flattered to tell you, colleague Kaloh, that I was very good at writing files. So it's also a case if you call it a file and a very good file. Unlike you yesterday, I did not comment on your report from the investigative commission, which in no way, but in no way has it achieved its purpose of what you just had and then you report that this kind of commission is an abuse of the investigative commission. So you see, as President of the Commission, who has been amputated twice by the Constitutional Court and barely, and that was questionable, she has remained alive. But unlike you, I will not comment on how to write a report. What is, in fact, totally unacceptable, has been repeatedly mentioned to harm the Slovenian police with this commission. After the government, this government, and from 13 March 2020, has done so much damage within the Slovenian police system and this commission is trying to expose this damage and find the culprit, why this is happening, you are saying that the commission is doing harm to the police. This commission has never been set up to work against the Slovenian police. On the contrary! It will take a long time for the Slovenian police to be able to erase this stain in the system, which is caught in the fact that the Slovenian police are becoming a party police or some kind of government assault army. It will take a long time, and it is sad, in fact, that more than eight thousand people employed in the police must endure what the ruling policy entails over a few ten people who have been placed in certain positions. So we're not talking about five people, I'm not going to make a list for you, but it's definitely about ten people in very important professional positions who, of course, had to leave their jobs and were transferred without any explanation. It's simply because that's what politics has decided. It is also sad, of course, that the top of the Slovenian police, encouraged by political support and by Interior Minister Hojs, is hampering the work of this investigative police. He's literally obstructing it. And you forget that this report is an interim report. The final report will also be documented and, if I say so, what happens to the people who have testified before this committee. Much will be explained and documented by the end of the work of this Commission. You obviously don't know that. We've just come to a stage where it's not enough for people to just switch and move from position to stage two, this final phase, when these disturbing people need to be completely removed from the police. And for that, of course, there is no choice of means. As for your claim that no law has been broken. Don't worry, this will also be specified very precisely in the final report. And that no rules were broken. I'm only going to say one case, but this is one case, and there's a lot of cases like this. That someone as a criminalist has been removed from the police because I will not describe his sins because of the unworthy, kindly said, unworthy conduct in the workplace withdrawn. Therefore, the termination of the employment relationship and the imposition of certain criminal proceedings against it. And then a new police leadership or a new government comes along, and suddenly this man is one of the urgently needed personnel to be reinstated in the police force. Because of the safety assessment in this case, because of the safety assessment which was absolutely negative, I will not read to you because it is quite long, absolutely unacceptable that this is totally unacceptable to the police for this absolute metal to be a bad light on it, due to such a safety report, at least two people had to leave their positions. One of them left the police, too. Even then, Police Director Jurič agreed that such employment was unacceptable. And then the new director came, and people changed in these positions, but they had an impact on these security checks, as they say, and from that negative security check, it was a positive one. Five people left the final stages because of this event. And now you're saying there's no violation of internal regulations, no violation of legislation! That's one case. And it's best to talk about cases because it's the most understandable. I'll tell you one example when you insist on denying that the leadership of the police does not work according to political instructions or in the midst of a ruling policy. Let's take a protest at the Republic Square when the protestors burned these cardboard chairs there. A perfectly peaceful protest. Those who took care of security in the area at the time also testified before the investigative commission if you read the magnetogram, Mr Kaloh, and said that, of course, this protest was absolutely calm, but indeed there was an excellent situation in so much that those chairs were burning there. And now watch out! And then the head of this security gets a text message from the police director saying, "Why didn't you use the water cannon?" That was a couple of ten people and a couple of burning chairs. The Director-General of the Police, who, of course, knows exactly when, in which cases, he even thinks about using a water cannon! I don't know, unless he got mixed up, but he thought why they didn't call firemen who were working with water. No, of course he didn't ask why they didn't call firefighters, but why they didn't use a water cannon. This was so for people who were on the ground at the time because the situation for a water cannon or a couple of ten people in the Republic Market had some burning chairs. And the Director-General of Police at the hearing could not explain exactly why he asked. Because he was interested. Wait, was it interesting?Oh, my God! On clear criteria, when a water cannon is used. So, of course, it follows from this that he had to get a question from someone why they didn't use a water cannon. Because you don't have that kind of question in yourself if you're the director general of the police. Or another example of the same director-general of the police, the latter, is this example of that ghastly protest in Prešeren's market and of those actions separating the so-called yellow vests from the other group of protestors. I don't want to go into the details. The fact is, after this action, in which both the Director of the Ljubljana Police Administration and the Chief of Operations were in the field at the time, they are absolutely convinced and have also claimed to have acted in full compliance with all the rules and standards applicable to police work. In accordance with everyone! I'm sure! Longtime police officer. Then one recently retired. And with politics, I know this man, with politics this man never had anything. I can tell you that because I know him. Police officer, sworn police officer for the rest of his life. But what happened? The Director-General of Police sends a message to the Director of the Police Administration of Ljubljana through the Signal application with praise for the excellent work done. Thank you for how well and professionally the police did their job, but look, this message then disappeared in a few hours. At the time, the director general of police on the investigative committee accused me of looking at his phone because he obviously doesn't understand the operation of the Signal app, where you can, of course, send a message to someone, even delete it remotely, and he sees that he's gone because he thought it was weird, and I know now that he's written a text or that he erased it. Yes, he deleted it because he had to change his mind, because in the middle of the policy, from the President of the Government through the Interior Minister, he found out how terrible mistakes had been made in this case, of course, the Director-General turned the board immediately, changed his position and demanded control. To the question of why was his answer: because that is what the public requires. Back then, in the middle of the night, she asked for publicity. Of course, in this case, the public was tweeted by the Prime Minister and tweeted by the Interior Minister. You see, these are classic cases. These cases are enormous if we start to list them now. But we have to go to individual cases, not flat, yes, nothing, everything's fine, we're all professionals, they're all professionals, and there's no political influence. Examples, individual cases, need to go one after the other to get a picture of what's really going on. And these cases are in the open file, as you call it, a respected colleague, described extensively, but most of all through the words themselves heard on the commission of inquiry. The investigative commission has a certain status and people don't just walk on it without some responsibility. At least to the investigative committee I run myself, I must say that everyone who has come so far, as you call them, is as hostile as friendly witnesses. On this investigative committee, I think that colleague Lisec spoke of hostile and friendly witnesses, there are no hostile or friendly witnesses on this investigative committee. And if anything, then no one who has been questioned before this commission of inquiry has been able to see the injustice or the insult or anything else. Because we are trying to be on a level and, of course, respectful of everyone. We have commissions where it doesn't work that way. I can tell you, as President of this Commission, that on our committee, a man like him today with his colleague Peric would not sit in the Chamber for ten minutes, but would send him out of the room, of course. Because that's insult and disrespect! If you are talking about a lack of respect for Parliament because of this interim report, I must stress once again, this is an interim report which, of course, brings many more elements to the confirmation of our thesis than has been brought by your final report, my dear fellow. Another example, I'll give you, because I see it's best to talk about cases and how it doesn't affect predictive procedures. It has already been mentioned in today's debate that the investigation into protective and medical equipment removed the criminal investigator who led the investigation. So, in the middle of the investigation, there was a sudden need for such a criminalist to be transferred to a backlog working group, because the NPU is actually actually eliminating the backlogs of police stations. Among other things. Also so rich that we could not believe that this is happening and what highly trained criminals are doing. Even with rapper Zlatko, for example. Well, after replacing this criminal, they found the right replacement for him, and now this criminalist, before being transferred to the NPU as the new head of the investigation on the Restoration case, which two then put in place, because one was obviously too small or the previous criminalist was that good, I don't know, but before taking over this job at the National Investigation Office, he was called to himself by Minister Hojs. Hello, why? Why is that? What does a minister have to call a criminal to investigate another minister?Oh, my God! And if anyone believes in fairy tales that they were talking about the weather and I don't know what, the man was transferred to the National Bureau of Investigation just to be the leader of this investigation, if anyone believes it is fabled, colleague Kaloh, when you say that there is something fairytale in this report as well. [[…]] Of course, this is, for example, described in this report. That's, yeah, almost fairytale. But it really happened. It happened. And not once, not once. The same criminalist was then at least once again with the minister, as he now seems to be advising him on some other matters. I don't know, apparently the minister's looking into what kind of things the counselor needs. I'm not gonna talk about any of this because it was actually in the closed section of the session. It is true, however, that this second meeting does not have any special importance for an investigative commission or subject of an investigative commission. In any case, it is very unusual for the Minister to call the National Investigation Office criminals. And we should believe that the word should be about this specific investigation I'm talking about. This is an example, for example, of the classic double involvement in the premonition procedure, not to mention the Minister's notice that he will have a house investigation. This is actually already a practice, but obviously Nova24 is no longer reliable enough, now this role is taken by the government of Siol.net, up to a list of instructions on how to conduct the house investigation, which they also found at Minister Pozvalšk, that I am not talking about the complications with the phone at all. These are the cases. One day we'll take our time and we'll go in 50 or 100 cases. Here I quote some, so the public can see what's going on, but the public understands these testimonys differently from you. Of course, I understand that you've already understood them well, but on the one hand, you can't and you won't. But they were very well understood by the public and how many responses there are to the work of this investigative commission in the public and in the police itself you should know that too. And the police themselves. Nobody says we're talking about it and we're using the investigative committee. Many people employed in the Slovenian police system have grown up after this part of the investigative commission and believe that we will not receive much information about what is happening in the Slovenian police system itself. Very many people who do not hope to expose themselves and need to protect their identity because they believe that they will also experience appropriate retaliation because of possible disclosure; of course, it is not possible to exclude if the Director General of Police Olay goes so far as to introduce a verbal delinquency both within the police force. The case, of course, is a warning to both leaders of police unions, where, in fact, the Director-General of the Police even lied when he said that they had received this warning before the termination of the labour relationship due to the results of the controls. Which, of course, is not true and control of what I don't know about he didn't find any mistakes, but because of an interview in The World's News24 and just a warning; nothing says anything about control and nothing about regular cancellations, but it dissects this interview and of course finds that if the public unionists have warned about what the Slovenian public has known for a long time, they have received this warning. At least one of them, but probably more of them, received a warning of resignation also for testifying against the commission of inquiry. That is why I am saying that this is an interim report, because some things will be investigated and detected by the investigating commission and, of course, have also exposed the work of the police director, who apparently follows very well the instructions of the policy or of Interior Minister Hojs, although he obviously has a few problems in doing so, this politicisation of the police does not seem to be going as well as they all imagined, so he also becomes nervous and shares these warnings before the termination of the working relationship as mature pears, and newly also introduces a verbal delicacy not only for the people within the police, including for the civil sphere. Not to mention the last two cases in which one is particularly interesting, because they send mail from the police to someone who is nicknamed Twitter, but they send him mail to the right address. But these are things that still need to be documented. But this is happening here in front of us; it is done by the Director-General of Police, apparently set up then to maintain this system, as it is, politically controlled, but obviously not going well enough. Why? Because now people within the police have begun to warn themselves that something is going terribly wrong, and this is causing a feeling of great anxiety. These cases I have mentioned to you, including in violation of legislation, which is most evident in the resolution of the Director of the National Investigation Office, and there are many other cases of infringements of the law, violations of the internal rules, avoidance of the career system. Secretary Hoys doesn't react to that. There are irregularities in the police department and they don't react. Secretary of State Kangler said they might be happening, but the police are so autonomous, the Ministry can't warn. Hello? No! No! He can't warn. So the Minister can introduce political control over the work of the NPU in a way that selects the four cases that his client has investigated in the National Assembly and are concluded, and now he would take a little look at them and scrutinize what kind of criminalist he can do. He can do that. In such cases, however, the police are so autonomous that they must look away that they do not accidentally affect this autonomy. Come on! But these are the words of your Secretary of State, which is why you set up an investigative commission. That wasn't a conflict of interest, was it? That he was a minister in the previous term, and I'm his client colleague, and that would be a conflict of interest, right? Your Secretary of State, you're essentially investigating his case on the committee, and that's not a conflict of interest. Come on. Come on! In short, because of the above, of course, we have found that, of course, the minister did not write to someone, do this, do this. Of course not. If he told anyone, he wouldn't admit it. But we don't do phone calls. But in the context of everything that is going on, of course, this political influence is clearly visible; but it is also clear that the Minister is not reacting. And that's why we found his political responsibility, subjectively and objectively. We therefore propose to the National Assembly to take a decision and invite the Minister to resign. It is also not by chance that we have written in this Decision to inform the President of the Government of the National Assembly of this derogation. Because once this minister has given up, if we remember correctly. He's given up once, and we haven't been informed. Therefore, this appendix is for the President of the Government to inform the National Assembly. Someday, honourable Members, you will be grateful for this work which we will do on this investigative committee. Once upon a time.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u129	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, and since no one has expressed interest in the debate on the separate opinion of Mr Yelinčič Trimenite on the interim report of 12 January 2022 at the closed meeting, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it on the basis of Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm guessing there's no interest. This concludes the debate. I note that the National Assembly took note of the Interim Report on Parliamentary Inquiry by the Commission of Inquiry into the determination of the possible political responsibility of the holders of public functions due to the suspicion of unacceptable political interference in the work of the police and the political impact on the flow or outcome of forecasting and other procedures. The assembly will decide on the essential findings and the proposals for conclusions in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item and the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 6 p.m. and 40 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 18.11 and resumed at 18.41.)
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u130	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. The National Assembly will vote on agenda items 17, 16, 21, 15, 14, 13 and 22. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the Field of Education and Education. Procedural proposal by colleague Felica Žiža.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u131	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. In accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the re-decision on the law be presented at one of the following meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u132	Okay, thank you very much. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups about this proposal? Comrade Golubovic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Look, this goes beyond all the limits of good taste you go. Every time you don't have a vote, you postpone the vote. [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, I would like to tell you that the National Demographic Fund Act, which arrived at the National Assembly on 20 June 2020 and was withdrawn from the vote in July 2021, is still awaiting a decision. It's not called democracy. This time, however, you wish to violate the Rules of Procedure, which in Article 148 makes it very clear that the National Assembly is voting again on the law at its first next veto. In the next session! And this is the meeting that ends today by voting, which means we have to vote on it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Matthew T. Vatovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u135	Yes, thank you, President. Actually, Brane said what I wanted. In short, according to the Rules of Procedure, this is not possible, so I expect that there will be no vote on this at all, but it is true that this is becoming such a rather unsettling practice. Are you going to move the vice governor to one of the next meetings today because you don't have enough votes? I mean, that's really funny, and it's getting unsustainable. Every time there is a situation, now that you are, of course, a minority coalition and it depends on will or any other factors, whether you are going to put a thing through or not. I mean, this way the National Assembly can't and can't work. I mean, it's another abuse we've seen in these two years so much that it's amazing. Really, please, let us calm down a little bit, President, there is really no basis for this proposal in particular. If we vote on this, this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. It's just crazy already.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u136	Thank you very much. My colleague Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u137	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. First, if we, the President, put this to a vote, we will vote in violation of the Rules of Procedure, that is the first. And secondly, a respected coalition and respectable ones who support this coalition. Don't you have enough on the boards to handle matters through boards with an unfair majority? Do you know how many laws would fall at another reading when you do not have a majority such as essentially the composition of this national assembly? Even on the Education Committee, if, given your strength in the National Assembly, this marriage never went through. And some other marriage. I hope that Dani Krivec and the one who is missing is healthy and will be healed, but also a little respect for another majority in this National Assembly. You don't have a majority today. Pika. You don't have a majority today. And I hope that the President will not put to the vote today that we are moving, that we are voting on the veto because it is past the rules of procedure. At least a little bit, let's try to respect the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly and this democracy. So, President, the mission is yours now. I hope you don't put this vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Masha Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u139	I would like to point out, on a procedural basis, that this is not a vote on one of the points where the proposer and others could propose a postponement in accordance with Article 74, but because it is a vote, as we say at home, on the veto. Remember, dear colleagues, how many times we walked out of the sea, in the middle of the holiday, people were dragged out of the I don't know where, because by that day the rules of procedure, which were decided on by the veto at the first next meeting, were respected. Veto is the last, the last tool or weapon of this national council to insist on its marriage. After a procedure that can take a different length of time, but depending on whether it is short or regular, when the whole process is completed and when the Council of State decides on the veto, we have a vote on the veto. Imagine that every time you wait, let's say from the June session to the mid-September to decide how long the marriage would be. And then in September, someone would get sick and they'd postpone the veto decision again. That's insufferable. This is not the usual situation of postponing the point, this is the decision on the veto which must be decided, as warned by colleague Golubović, at the first next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] That's the way it is. Article 148 states that the National Assembly shall re-vote the law at its first next meeting, this meeting. On the other hand, we have paragraph 74, which states, "the President, the Group of Members, the Applicant or the Government, when there is no proposer, may propose that the debate or decision on the matter under consideration be postponed to one of the following meetings." I consider that paragraph 74 is not taken into account because we are not talking here about the debate or decision on the matter under consideration, but rather about a special matter concerning the subject, which, in accordance with Article 148, is considered to be re-voting at the first next meeting, which is today's meeting. So we must vote on this and I will put the matter to the vote. Mr Lisec's procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u141	Thank you. The SDS is proposing a 10-minute recess to agree on a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u142	I'm adjourning the session. We'll pick it up at seven. (The sitting was suspended at 1849 and resumed at 19. uri.)
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u143	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the Field of Education and Education. We are moving on to a re-decision on that law. At the same time, I would like to point out that in the re-decision in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. Before voting, I would also like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 141 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a law concerning the exercise in the Constitution of certain rights and the position of only national communities shall be adopted by consensus of Members of the national communities. Consent shall be deemed to have been given if members of the national communities voted in favour of the law. I therefore ask Ambassador Ferenc Horvath and Felice Žižo if they agree with the bill, i.e. whether they will vote in favour. I'm guessing yes. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 35. (There were 44 votes in favour.)(against 35.) I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for an Law on Electronic Communications. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for the Law on Electronic Communications is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 45. (The vote was 40.)(against 45.) I take it that the decision is not taken. I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Interim Report on Parliamentary Inquiry by the Investigative Commission on the identification of the possible political responsibility of public function holders due to the suspicion of unacceptable political interference in the work of the police and the political impact on the course or outcome of forecasting and other procedures. First, we turn to the decision on the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry, which are recorded in the Interim Report on pages 30 to 57. Before we move to a decision, I would like to point out that, if possible, you do not provide information from a separate opinion to the Interim Report submitted by the Member of the Investigative Commission, Victory Jelinčič Plemeniti, which is marked by the level of confidentiality of DATA PROTECTION, PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA and is therefore not available to the public. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 43. (The vote was 43.)(against 43.) I note that the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry are not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 44. (The vote was 42.)(against 44.) I take it that no decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infectious Diseases. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Infectious Diseases is appropriate for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament? Who in the name of the Member of Parliament? No, no, no. On his own behalf, Comrade Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. I'll vote against it. The epidemic of infectious disease is not just a natural disaster, but it is also an acute crisis — an unplanned, unwanted and time-bound process that can only be limitedly affected. State crisis management, the management of the epidemic, therefore, means solving the problems of the highest degree of difficulty, because of time and decisive pressure on limited available resources and the orientation towards short-term resolution, crisis decision-makers have to use adapted decision-making methods and techniques to guide people to outcomes. Healthists of Slovenian reality, the authors of the law introduce two new inventions into the methods of crisis management. The first invention is intended for itself to hat on tested proportionality and the second invention is to emphasize the importance of the profession. The profession is a space of concentrated intelligence that can take enough time to express itself beyond reason. Foolishness is far more foolish in the profession than anywhere else, but it is also endlessly premeditated. It's no different than trickery and malice. Everything in the profession becomes a code name. However, there are so many subjects in which it is possible to argue until the day of judgment. The bill has a direct connection with incompetence and a line of avoidance before making difficult and unpopular decisions, but nothing will happen to moaning, nothing will happen to complaints. Today, the labour country and the firm policy are appreciated. We don't have that, so I'm going to vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u145	We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 31. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Health Committee as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 14th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the draft law on environmental protection. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for the Environmental Protection Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 3. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 44. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the assembly of the proposed decision is not adopted and therefore the legislative procedure on the proposal for a law is concluded. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, that is, the Mandate- voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of a member of the Council of Banka Slovenije. On 18 January 2022, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly that a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia be appointed to the seat of the Vice-Governor. Marianne Wilderness. I give the floor to Mrs Natashi Kovac, Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, for a further explanation of the proposal. Procedural proposal, colleague Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u146	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Again today, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 74, I propose that the decision on paragraph 22a be placed at one of the following meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u147	Thank you. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? My friend Golubovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u148	Thank you very much. This is what it looks like when you work from democracy and in the final stage also from the role of the President of the Republic who carried out this procedure, you have been assured by this National Assembly that he will hope to vote within 30 days of the day the President submits a proposal to the National Assembly, and this proposal came to the National Assembly on 18 January. Which means this National Assembly has to vote on the Vice Governor by 18. Two, which means there'll be a seven-day circus after the holiday. And it's not going the way you thought it would. It's a disgrace to some democratic process. It's a real shame. The Income Act and the National Demographic Fund Act have also withdrawn a few laws from the vote. This cannot be a practice in a democratic state! In a democratic country, when a law comes, a procedure is voted on. Unless you have enough votes, the law is not passed. That is why we will oppose this because, for the first time, disrespect for the institution of the President of the Republic that has carried out the procedures is correct and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and also in accordance with Article 37 of the Bank of Slovenia. And if your candidate for vice-governor, who is close to SDS, doesn't have the knowledge to become vice-governor, doesn't have enough votes and you're going to be putting this from a meeting to a meeting, it's not right, it's wrong. And that's enough! That's enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I ask my colleague Lisco, given that you have mentioned that you are proposing to postpone only decision-making, do you also mean debate here. In fact, we have today Mrs Natašo Kovac, from the Office of the President of the Republic, also have a presentation of the position of the Levic Group. I would therefore like to ask whether we should continue with these matters, but are we only voting on the suspension of the decision, or should we also postpone this debate or these two parts?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u150	I suggest we just vote next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u151	Okay, thank you very much. Anybody else want some? I continue to give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. My friend Luke Moon has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u152	Yes, thank you very much. I think the gesture makes things seem even more bizarre, doesn't it? We can discuss today, but we will vote next time you have enough votes. Is that your conclusion? I mean, the debate in Parliament is ultimately about trying to get a majority through the debate for some law, for some proposal, for some act or for a candidate if we want to put it somewhere. Now, you know that you're a minority government and that it's hard to collect votes for the things you want to do. In this case put a man who is close to the SDS, who is the last man of your party's long-standing pioneer, under the leadership of the Bank of Slovenia and you find that you have today – what? Too many people in quarantine to get through this and now we're gonna move it all back to next week. I mean, it's true, it's crazy to make out of democracy, from the procedures that are here. I mean, we're almost there, and we're gonna start doing astrological cards, and we're gonna be doing some voting after that. Are we just gonna count when one side has more people in quarantine? Let us go in the order in which the procedure is laid down and vote when the vote is in turn. This is my counter-procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. Then I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Aha, I apologize. [[…]] Madam Secretary General, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u154	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to express my sincere thanks, on behalf of the President of the Republic, to all Members and Members of this National Assembly, especially to the leaders of the parliamentary groups for their successful participation in the selection of candidates and candidates for the country's highest posts, at the beginning of this trip. In this reference, the President of the Republic proposed 23 candidates for appointment. In 17 cases, they were elected in the first round, others by re-voting. Even in the last year, at a time of greater political uncertainty, eight candidates and candidates of a total of 10 proposed were appointed in the first round. This has made it possible, and it is particularly important at this time, that all the most important institutions in this country operate unhindered and in a full composition. Allow me now to proceed with the presentation of the candidacy for Vice-Governor of Banka Slovenije. The President of the Republic shall propose to the National Assembly, for appointment, mag. Marjana Dijak, Director General of the Treasury Directorate at the Ministry of Finance, who obtained the title of Master of Science at the University of Ljubljana in Business and Organizational Sciences, at the University of Turin in the field of development economy and at the University of Oxford in the field of mathematical finance. In addition to academic knowledge, it is characterized by rich practical experience. The management of the Treasury Directorate took over in 2013 when Slovenia faced a great lack of confidence in investors and credit rating agencies and limited access to financial markets. It has made an important contribution to maintaining the country's access to debt capital markets with a team of co-workers. In the treasury of the Republic of Slovenia, he proved his organisational and managerial abilities. The result is the effective performance of the tasks of the state Treasury on the ground, the optimisation of government debt management, both in terms of risk and debt costs. In 2017, the Treasury Directorate received the Sovereign Risk Manager of the Year in Risk Manager of the Year Award for Innovative Debt Management Approaches. Mag. Divac is an excellent specialist in climate change management as the biggest challenge of modern society, where central banks play a major role. He was an instigator of the Republic of Slovenia's green and sustainable bond, leading in July 2021 to the issue of the Republic of Slovenia's first sustainable bond. With this crucial transaction, Slovenia was the first among the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the second among the Member States of the European Union. Mag. During the Presidency of Slovenia, Divac led the European Council working group on European Green Bonds. From 2013 to 2016, he worked as an external consultant for the International Monetary Fund, a regular participant at conferences of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. He also has extensive experience in banking and is a longtime member and also president of the Supervisory Board of the SID of the Bank since 2020. In most areas of Banka Slovenije’s activities as treasurer as a member of the Bank’s SID Supervisory Board and as an external adviser to the International Monetary Fund, he has both expertise and full practical experience, which could also be accompanied by his public presentation. Among all the candidates who meet the professional criteria for this city is mag. A savage who, during all consultations with the parliamentary groups, may also receive appropriate support for the election. Mag. The savage combines a high level of expertise in the fields of finance and economics, organisational skills and international experience. In the last nine years, he has been operationally leading one of the most important functions of the country's funding for the implementation of the state budget. He successfully and professionally collaborated with five finance ministers in five Slovenian governments and conducted an effective dialogue with investors for securities, credit rating agencies and other stakeholders. Slovenia enjoys once again a great reputation in this community. On the basis of all the above, it can reasonably be expected to be a mag. The savage, in the event of the selection of the task at Banka Slovenije, performed with responsibility, expertise and care. The President of the Republic therefore proposes him as a candidate for Vice-Governor, a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. Following is a presentation of the position of the Left Group. The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u156	Thank you very much and very much! Mr. Wildeak, of course, looks on paper a competent candidate. In his career he worked with several international institutions, made a career in the academy and so on. And even with a number of his views, he could agree to a view of green bonds and so on. And his problem is that it's an explicitly political candidate. A candidate who – I don't know what it's like with the other opposition parties – simply didn't come to introduce himself or ask to come to the opposition MPs, at least we had that situation. I understand this because from his CV, which was not clear now from the presentation by the cabinet of the President of the State, that Mr Divac was, at the same time all these years, a faithful SDS cadre, who also had his fingers in the middle of something unusual. He had his fingers in the process of wiping out the bondholders of the New Credit Bank Maribor, 110 thousand people then lost part of their assets that they invested in the bank to help the bank with their money, with their savings to save, and had his fingers in the formation of the first bad bank and so on. This is how I view his candidacy as an attempt by this government in breath, especially the ruling SDS party, to get its man under the leadership of the Bank of Slovenia. Now, what is the agreement on what his mission should have been there, we find it difficult to conclude because he did not come forward and we had no opportunity to ask him, but I can conclude that these things are not pure, because otherwise he would have no problem presenting them to opposition groups. Thus, I definitely do not support Banka Slovenije's politicization in such a grave way, but because of the history that Mr Divac has with the client of SDS with the New Bank of Credit Maribor, a bad bank and so on, I simply cannot trust this man that he will do his work conscientiously and for the benefit of all of us. I am concerned that he will carry out his work on a biased basis and in particular for the benefit of the party who will appoint him to this position. That's why he doesn't have our support.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u157	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the Group's position. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to postpone the decision on the proposal to appoint a member of the Board of the Bank – the Vice-Governor to one of the next meetings of the assembly. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 43. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We'll proceed with the hearing. We are moving on to a vote on the proposal to appoint a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia – Vice-Governor. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 37 of the Law on the Bank of Slovenia, the National Assembly appointing a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the chairpersons and by the four Members elected by the National Assembly. [[advertising from the hall]] Quiet, please! The representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members of the panel that leads the vote. These are Franc Breznik, SDS Group; Andreja Zabret, LMŠ Group; Boštjan Koražija, Left Group; Blaž Pavlin, NSI Group. I, too, am a member of the Commission as chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Who opposes such a proposal? I guess not. We are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 1. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Chamber shall be served to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and shall state his name and surname. Members and Members of the Commission are requested to keep the distance recommended when waiting for the voicemails to be delivered in accordance with the preventive measures. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "no" on the ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Member or Member is not clear. In accordance with Article 37, paragraph 5, of the Bank of Slovenia Act, the proposed candidate for a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia will be appointed vice-governor, if the majority of all Members and Members vote, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. Before we move to a secret ballot, I would like to draw attention to the provision of Article 92(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that during a secret vote in the Chamber persons who are not voting shall not have access to the Chamber, so I call upon those persons to leave the Chamber at that time. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask the Member and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 19.35, which is in ten minutes and will last until 19.50. I interrupt this agenda item and the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 20 and 5 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 19.27 and resumed at 20.05.)
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-04-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u158	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the end of the 22nd point, this is the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Let me read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of mags. Marjana Dijak as a member of the Council of Banka Slovenije – Vice-Governor: The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 4 February 2022. 84 ballots were distributed. 84 ballots were delivered. There was no invalid voice. There were 84 valid ballots. 44 Members and Members voted against by 40 Members and Members. Since the proposed candidate has not received a sufficient number of votes from Members and Members, I will immediately inform the President of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 37(6) of the Bank of Slovenia Act. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 29th meeting of the National Assembly.
