ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 94th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under Article 20, paragraph 2, Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Before continuing, I inform you that Mr Franz Avberšek, Member of the National Assembly, died during the mandate period 1992-1996. Let's honor the memory with a minute of silence. [[minutes of silence]] Thank him! I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Iva Dimic, Andrej Černigoj, Igor Zorčič, Franc Jurša, mag. Bojana Muršič, Aleksander Reberšek, Mihael Prevc until 1:00 p.m., Dušan Šiško from 16.30 p.m. to 22. p.m., Tomaž Lisec from 11 till 18 p.m. and Rudy Medved. Government representatives were invited to the meeting. I say hello to everyone! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 94th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 21 January 2022, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. Mr Branko Simonovic, Vice-President of the National Assembly, proposed that the agenda for this extraordinary meeting should be extended by item 5, namely the proposal for a decision appointing the Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy. You received the proposal by letter dated 24 January 2022. Does the representative or representative of the SAB Group wish to speak as the proposer of the proposal for a decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for an extension of the agenda has been adopted. We are moving to a full vote on the day-to-day definition. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and by an extension adopted. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 94th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item — Second defence of the Proposal for a Law on temporary measures for the prevention of energy poverty under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 39 Members and Members with the first signed Matjaz Han. The bill is proposed at the 70th emergency session of the 20th. 1. 2022 considered the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. As the Committee of the Articles of the Law did not adopt the second reading of the draft law at its meeting of the working body, after the discussion had been concluded, the Committee of the Articles of the Law had not adopted it. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon. In recent weeks and months, we have witnessed the extraordinary situation in the energy and raw materials market, as prices from day to day reach record high levels. This is due to the fact that global supply chains are partially broken and the waiting periods for raw materials have increased considerably. The gas flow to Europe is lower due to various supply disruptions. Stocks in warehouses are relatively cold and long last year, and the global economy has relaunched after the release of epidemiological restrictions and has reached a rapid rise for which the current supply of energy is not sufficient for gas, oil or electricity. In Slovenia, too, oil has become quite irritable, which is already felt in petrol pumps. The price of petrol and diesel is about a quarter higher than it was a year ago, after all as a result of the government liberalisation of the oil derivatives market. At the time of adoption of this measure, the proposed Minister of Restoration has repeatedly stressed that this will not in any way lead to an increase in fuel prices. But today it turns out that's not exactly the case. Also, at present, a good 25 % more than during the same period last year should be deducted for combustion oil. The biggest Slovenian energy company Petrol also significantly increased electricity and natural gas prices by 12% last December. Petrol was soon followed by other suppliers when energy prices rose. For all of this, both Slovenia and the European energy systems face a number of challenges. After the health crisis, there is now an energy crisis and energy poverty at our door that could have even worse consequences for some individuals and economic sectors than the Covid epidemic19. They are also aware of this in other European countries, which is why the issue of rising prices in the energy market is very much on the agenda. Some have already decided, or even months ago, to assist citizens in mitigating the consequences of sudden high price increases, including by reducing ddv and other contributions to the introduction of subsidies and special vouchers and so on. The question is what we have done now in Slovenia or what the Government has done to solve this problem. That is why I call on the competent authorities to focus instead of on the need for short-term measures. And it is precisely because the Government has not responded to the energy crisis in our countries for months instead of the Government of Things that has taken over the opposition, which has prepared and tabled a bill on temporary measures to prevent energy poverty, which provides for the introduction of 150 euro energy vouchers for 75,000 socially disadvantaged and 40 euro for 200,000 recipients of the child supplement in the first six income classes. According to the proposal, the energy credit could be used in multiple amounts and could be reimbursed for the payment of invoices for the supply of electricity, heat or gas, the purchase and delivery of natural gas in steel and fuel. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, this proposal seems appropriate to us, but especially to the current situation is also necessary, which is why we certainly support it. At the same time, the Non-aligned Members note that, given that electricity, heating oil, natural gas, propulsion fuels have been used for all people in the country and that it is right to consider the principle of equality in dealing with this issue, other measures should also be taken to address this open issue, which will not only help a specific circle of citizens, but will help all citizens to cope with the energy crisis. Such measures, which would help all residents, include temporary reductions in tax rates, reduced VAT on energy and reduced excise duties, the introduction of subsidies, the reduction or freezing of certain contributions, the prevention of network increases and a number of similar measures. In the energy situation today, we believe it would be necessary to define and adopt, as soon as possible, medium- and long-term strategic measures that would contribute to affordable energy for households and businesses, to increase our country's energy independence, to strengthen the resilience of the Slovenian and European energy markets and to support the transition to climate neutrality only by preventing so-called rising energy prices and, consequently, preventing the emergence of an energy crisis and energy poverty. In the future, a well-functioning and stable internal energy market will be highly self-sufficient with supply and carbon resources, increasing energy efficiency and strengthening its own energy resources will be crucial to stable energy prices and the reliability of energy supply for all citizens and consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President. So, let me present the position of the Ambassador of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group on the Proposal for a Law on Temporary Measures to Prevent Energy Poverty. Among the reasons for the adoption of the law, the proposer stated that the reason for the bill was already realised and announced the promotion of energy, thereby helping to pay the costs for the purchase of energy products to the socially disadvantaged and poor. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are monitoring the situation and agree that the country must respond to any major deviations, especially in any area, once the prices of some energy consumers have already risen more at the forefront of the forecast that they will still be. We also note that the prices of energists mainly rise very differently across the country. In some congregations, prices have risen in others, or only the symbolic problem is seen in the way of recovery and the resulting price of heating. Some of the tenants in certain multi-inhabitation facilities have so far had an agreed business departure rather than household clothing, which has now resulted in much more expensive heating than if they had a contractual household clothing, so we feel that building managers and suppliers should be aware that under the current circumstances they should not be so scrobish to contractual relations with consumers mainly of heat energy consumers. In our Group of Members, we also believe that some of the incentives are completely unjustifiable and give an impression of speculative nature. Some bidders seem to take advantage of rising prices for higher earnings, irrespective of the difficulties caused to families, especially those with lower incomes that did not expect such high incentives and their payment in the short term is causing serious difficulties. Many bidders, including municipal utilities, did not prepare in time for the winter and the heating season, as they did not rent energy and as a result people pay a high price. In doing so, we believe that such tenderers should take part in the responsibility of themselves and not burden only citizens and citizens who were not prepared to do so. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group are aware that the Government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which confirmed the proposed measures to help citizens and the economy in particular members of the coalition and some of the constructive opposition, have done much to ensure that people and the economy do not experience major problems despite the severe health crisis. Many different aids were paid and aided in various forms. In doing so, many injustices have been corrected by laws. Among other things, in the mandate of this Government, salaries, pensions and allowances have been raised in exceptional short time, and compensations have been paid to those who have been wrongly overlooked from workers, students, pensioners to disabled persons, single parents and large families, farmers, war veterans, etc. As both coalition and opposition Members who have made a laudable bill this time, which, in our opinion, covers a very narrow group of assistance for the people in need, as well as the Government, which is very closely monitoring trends in energy prices and is also very aware of the problems of irritation and is preparing an appropriate and effective law, we are all aware and agree that action must be taken without delay. And as I mentioned earlier, with the proposed law to prevent the effects of the irritation of energy products, a very narrow group of people was involved, in the SDS Group we share an opinion with the Government that it is necessary to look at the problem more broadly into the action with the help of a larger group of people, because we believe that they do not have or will not have problems just being socially threatened, but someone else. Since many other issues have also been raised in the field of energy, not only the irritation of certain providers who have not been able to prepare themselves in a timely manner for global stimulation, for such and other reasons, but earlier in our position of the said speculators, and not least of all the designated administrations and directors of energy companies or energy providers that pay themselves abnormally high wages and rewards, the Government promises to speed up with the preparation of a law that will be comprehensively, I underline the overall response to the situation and needs of citizens, and we will also unanimously support the situation and needs of people and economies that have been prepared in the SDS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Comrade Möderndorfer, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u6	Dear Vice President, I've already gone up to you to warn you of professional services to make a very bad noise in this Chamber. Now, in the last part I have to say that I have managed to hear a respected colleague, it seems that they have increased these speakers, but look, the technical progress in the 21st century certainly does not talk about that you now have 8 speakers down, but you have two of them, and there the unfortunates who sit behind the speakers are too loud, but here at the bottom we actually hear very much, especially in the fact that we are all wearing masks and that, of course, those who perform in this room are not everyone sure that they hear themselves with some intenance talking, but they are dedicated to the content and they are speaking as they speak. So please, from the point of view of the procedure, that we Members will hear each other at all and understand what anyone is saying if we want to do serious work in the National Assembly, to arrange technical services as soon as possible without boasting that you have the best two speakers, but to arrange that we can all normally and qualitatively listen without shouting, dreary, because one, I believe, my colleagues have already said that they are very unhappy because they are loud speakers, and here we hear nothing. You know, let me arrange it technically, because with all the money, with all the money we spend in this country, we don't know how to arrange sound acoustics in this room, I apologize, with all due respect for this technical service, but we're the ones that this user didn't ruin there listening to the headphones and what I know where. I have to say otherwise, I'm gonna be able to move into the office because the only thing I'm gonna do on TV is listen and hear what's going on in this room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Now, after your intervention, we intervened immediately, in writing, then also orally, as you have probably noticed, I think the situation is a little bit better now and I suggest that we continue the meeting. However, I hope that the services of the National Assembly have heard this warning and will check that the system is ready to be monitored by Members in the Chamber next time. Mr Edvard Paulič will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The second half of 2021 was not only marked by the emergence of a new, more infectious coronal version, but also by a sharp rise in energy prices on the global and European markets. Today we are already deep in the second half of the heating season and the fact is that a large part of the population still pays high heating rates with difficulty. In order to help the most vulnerable groups in the face of financial distress, we in the opposition have drafted the Law on Temporary Measures to Prevent Energy Poverty, with which we wanted to resolve the situation immediately, here and now. The so-called energy vouchers would only be the first but currently most necessary measure. Unfortunately, the coalition opposed the bill. Once again, on the home committee, we were able to listen to the excuses in terms of the opposition's proposal follows the right objective but we will resolve the matter in its entirety. And here we are rightly asked what this government has been doing for four months. In the opposition, we have been warning and calling for action on the government since last autumn. We have called for a meeting of the home committee, several parliamentary initiatives and questions have been addressed to the government, an oral question has been raised to the Prime Minister, and we have also held a broader debate in the National Assembly on the response of the Prime Minister. Finally, because of the government's failure to respond, we tabled our own proposal for a law. The inaction of the current government is even more incomprehensible if we know that the European Union has prepared a set of measures to help meet the challenge of rising energy prices last October. All the members of the European Union reacted and the Slovenian government, apart from the empty promises, has done nothing to date. Our citizens are faced with enormous and repeated auctions of the billboards, and if we know that 62% of all energy consumed in the household is intended for the heating of the premises, all alarms should be ringing. If coalition Members were to have the same concern as the criminal code they have given them to prevent the prosecution of certain crimes from solving energy poverty, they would already have a solution on the table today. Despite the fact that the law on the home committee was not adopted, we committed the Government to certain activities in the opposition to the LMŠ initiative. The Government must therefore implement measures within 15 days to temporarily reduce the contribution of the levy and excise duty on energy products, thereby discharging the financial burden on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The government must prepare an explanation of the gas supply law in such a way that all energy customers, even indirectly, will be used to heat their households as domestic customers. These other solutions will be especially happy for tenants in multi-housing buildings who heat their households through a common boiler or via remote heating, since suppliers have so far charged them with business clothing that is significantly more expensive than household clothing. In LMŠ, the government is expected, at least in such serious matters as the easing of high energy prices, to keep its word. Of course, in the LMŠ Group we are aware that this does not yet mean that the problem of high energy prices will be fully resolved. In order to eliminate energy poverty, much more effort will be needed, but every step counts.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u10	Thank you, Chairman. Representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues, colleagues. In recent months, we have all been able to see and feel a marked rise in prices. Since the end of the summer, signs have begun to indicate that there will also be a rise in energy. By the end of last year, many have felt the impressions, all of us from the beginning of this year. This is happening all over Europe and already in mid-October, the European Commission has done something that we are not used to in fact; it has issued a special set of possible measures that countries can take because of energy dearth. They have explicitly set up direct support for vulnerable households. Perhaps in these strange times we have not noticed how unusual the move is, given the European Commission's constant oath on the legality of the market, it is clear that the circumstances are exceptional. That we are victims of an exceptional increase in energy prices, which will be the most difficult to cope with and that it will also be necessary to cut down on direct subsidies and other measures to protect consumers. The Slovenian Government, which chaired the European Union at that time, has not responded to this problem. The Council of Ministers did not write on this topic until 26 November – a month and a half after the European Commission had already decided on possible measures and more than two months after it had faced the first questions in its domestic Parliament to answer with cynical advice on the exchange of tenderers. When we convened several meetings of the competent committees in the opposition to learn what the Slovenian government is planning to do, on 8 November we received one and only concrete promise – that the government will help the 66,000 most vulnerable people with 150 euros in energy vouchers. The source of funding is the climate fund and the proposal for a law for implementation is to be prepared by the Ministry of Labour, and the government is to consider it at one of the future meetings. In November, the government did nothing to implement these promises of its Secretary of State. As in December, no activity has yet been detected, at ever lower temperatures and rising energy prices, we have drawn up an appropriate law to provide the legal basis for the rapid realization of at least the most basic aid to the most vulnerable in this country. We have prepared a legal basis and a measure announced by the government. 150 Euros of energy credit for the most vulnerable households funded by the Climate Fund, where funds for this measure are more than sufficient. More than that, we have followed the good and working solutions that this government has designed. The way in which the credit is reimbursed would be exactly like the way in which the so-called ‘refunding’ is made. tourist vouchers. If this law were adopted, 75 thousand of the most vulnerable in this country and the parents and custodians of 200,000 children would be able to lower their energy bills from 1 January this year. We wanted to help the government to quickly implement a good plan to help people. Unfortunately, this government is not about people but about prestige and power. It only predicts the actions. Now it's clear that this winter people will have to find out for themselves. This is the responsibility of the arrogance of the ruling Members who swear in cooperation, but on every occasion or occasion. The opportunities shall be rejected. The ruling majority of the Committee, which does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the entire National Assembly, has prevented us from voting today on a proposal that is not complete but would help quickly and now. It grieves us that the ruling Members are more important political prestige than the real help to the people for whom assistance to the most vulnerable is again delayed this time in the pre-election spring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Polsan Group Levica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, the chairman, and a nice greeting. In the autumn, price increases for domestic energy customers were announced, but now we were literally shocked by the news that some households would pay a few times as much for the same energy as the rest. Because suppliers consider them to be business customers. In the first place, the directors of multi-housing buildings and suppliers who signed business withdrawal contracts for the top-level owners, although they knew that they were female customers. This situation is also the country's fault for two reasons. Firstly, because it has made such practices possible and has not yet sanctioned them. And secondly, because the supply of vital life-forces leaves the free market. Many have now found themselves on the brink of survival because of the crazy prices of energy. Socially-intruded households limit or even exceed their monthly income. In particular, poor pensioners are vulnerable. Now that the temperatures are high below zero, they'll turn off the radiators and freeze in their own apartments. The crisis, which has severely affected energy-poor households and which has pushed many into energy poverty, has exposed the misery of managing multi-housing buildings, as well as the misery of the country, which leaves the supply of essential energy to the free market. Instead of regulating the prices of energy consumers and exercising control over the compliance of the legislation by market operators who have cross-examined a poor pensioner living alone in their own home. The Act, which would introduce a temporary measure of direct support to individuals and families meeting the social criteria in this bill, aimed at mitigating the impact of high energy stimulation and preventing energy poverty in the form of an energy credit or an energy voucher, rejected the coalition on the committee a few days ago when the Government was preparing its law. Thus, 75 000 of the most socially disadvantaged who, according to the opposition's proposal, would receive a voucher of 150 euros and 200 000 recipients of a child's allowance in up to the sixth income class, would receive a 40-euro voucher in the middle of winter, with radiators and cold furnaces still freezing because they simply do not have the money to buy energy; electricity, gas, heating oil, fuel and fuel. The government coalition, however, excites on their suffering and has no obedience, no political will to come to their aid in time, although the financial obligations of the law would not be too great. There would be some EUR 28 million, about one third of which would return to the Treasury through taxes and excise duties. As I have already said in the introduction, the prices of energists have been known for months and the government, compared to other European countries, is still making promises, still taking time, as if there is no hard winter outside and as if people are not in full trouble right now. At the height of the heating season, the government had just shrunk like a skeleton dinosaur and had begun to prepare its own law, as if the only thing she was really interested in was a marketing move as close as possible to the elections as the government would share candy again. In Levika, we are bitter over the slowness and insensitiveness of the Government, and we really hope that at least a decision will be taken to encourage the Government Committee to prepare an explanation of the sectoral legislation as soon as possible, where there will be a clear distinction between domestic and business customers. Thus, consumers who use energy to heat their households will be [[sign for the end of the debate]] Finally treated as domestic customers and not more than business entities, which, for several times, undermines their monthly consumption of energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the coalition and in the Government, we are aware that we must adopt a new law urgently, due to the increasing social pressures of the population, due to the impact of high energy prices, with urgent measures to mitigate the consequences of social protection, public resources rights and taxes. The positions in many cases, especially for heating, of course for electricity, go to the sky, are unreasonablely high. I can also say this from my own experience, thank God I can pay this bill myself, but, for the month of December 2021, for the service apartment here in Ljubljana, I pay as much as half the cost of heating our home house in Prekmurje during the whole smoking season. It's just for comparison. That's why I'm saying that some of the bills are unreasonablely high. Perhaps someone here is also blackmailing, perhaps politically, but this is what the debate will show in the future. The situation in energy markets is unusual and is due to several factors. Revitalisation of pandemic economies and increased demand for energy, in particular coal and natural gas, reduced additional supply of gas to Europe due to technical difficulties and lower investments, lower own production, and no additional gas from Russia, and lower production of electricity from renewable sources, as usual. In Slovenia, compared with other countries in natural gas, not much electricity is produced, but since electricity is traded on the European Union's single internal market, the impact of rising electricity prices due to more expensive gas has shifted to our domestic market. The rise in electricity prices on the market in the last year has had major consequences for the rise in natural gas prices. In the last year, however, less renewable energy production in Europe has been detected due to less wind and hydro energy, affecting market pricing and imports; but for people, such information is not really important for our households. The solutions are important. The government is preparing the solutions. The Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs have already proposed some solutions to the Government within the framework of the Emergency Action Act to combat the impact of high energy prices. Solutions are also expected for the economy. This question is certain, we agree, very complex. Since this is a draft bill, today I cannot talk about numbers, but the main solution – I can tell you how much information I have received from Minister Vrtovac and Janez Cieglar of the King – is going in the direction of helping all Slovenian households, because we know how to help in this case when it comes to high energy prices. We have shown this at the time of the declared epidemic, by significantly reducing the cost of the network and also for some contributions. I'm sure the government's solutions will go this way. So, the law is supposed to address all households, we will pay particular attention to large families, and as we say, it will also address economic problems. In view of the increasing social pressures of the population due to the impact of high energy prices, a new law must be adopted with urgent measures to mitigate the consequences of social protection, and in this context also on our part this appeal to the Government. In order to improve the social security of vulnerable groups, a single solidarity allowance should be paid for the purpose of remedying the effects of rising energy prices. It is also supposed to be temporary, for example, a three-month exemption from the payment of contributions to provide support for electricity production, to co-producers with high efficiency and to renewable energy sources for household consumers and to consumers in the low-voltage zone without measuring their power. Respectable colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens! We expect from the Government the text of the law as soon as possible and the adoption as soon as possible in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u16	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have long been alerting the SAB to the energy crisis, which has worsened the standard of living and deepens energy poverty for many reasons. We hoped that the draft law before us would at least mitigate the effects of energy abuse and thus help citizens in an area in which the government is in no way moving. Unfortunately, our hopes did not come true. That is how we remain among the few countries of the European Union that have not yet been able to respond to the energy crisis. We want the Government to move from words to actions, and Slovenia will no longer have a crisis observer. We have been offered a model for action by a number of Member States, and the approach and their way of dealing with the crisis they have decided on is different. The most reactive response was immediately. The main actors, Prime Minister Janez Janša and Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovec have all the time acknowledged that action will have to be taken. The Minister of Vrtovac was particularly at ease with the fact that the market is working so that the crisis will best be resolved by collective resolution at European Union level. But it is difficult to agree with the indications of the functioning market, for example, Jeseničani, Mariborčani Ptujčani, Ljubljana and other Slovenes who already receive higher positions up to twice as high as in the same period of the year before. Also, the amount on the stand has been significantly raised for electricity and natural gas customers. Some final customers, however, have been forced to switch to the emergency care system and pay up to 400 percent higher prices due to irresponsible supplier relations. In addition, all citizens also benefited from the increase in the number of grids set by the Energy Agency from 1. 1. 2022. The country is also deaf to calls from the economy to take action. In repeated calls, the government's economists have pointed out that, with January, the expiry of the old and the entry into force of the new contracts threatens to increase by up to 6 per cent and that they are in great need of assistance. It is not too much to point out that jobs and economic justification for production are at risk. In doing so, we point out that the threat and non-competitiveness of jobs is a problem that can trigger a chain reaction on the market. The aid scheme as mentioned by the Government as a solution is not in sight for once. The only measure taken by the Government so far has been the re-implementation of the regulation of the prices of combustion oil but it is also worth stressing that the measure has entered into force on 7 November. If we know that most households provide sufficient oil supplies before the heating season, then we can conclude that the measure has been very late and for a lot of people without meaning. In doing so, the Government has fully overlooked the intervention on the electricity market, where we are largely self-sustaining in Slovenia, and companies are owned by the majority of the state and therefore have all leverages for effective action in contrast to the gas and fuel markets and oil derivatives. Despite the fact that we are self-sustaining electricity prices are rising or the para-state companies that SDH is carrying out at the expense of people and economies are making profits. While the Prime Minister referred to the solidarity allowance brought by the 10 anti-korona package as a measure to help the energy well. If paying the energy bill was the only success or the only problem for our pensioners and other vulnerable groups, we could still attach it to it. Because we know that this is not how we feel about them. As stated in the SAB party, we have long been alerting the energy supply with a view to overwinding and bridging the scale of the crisis, four times we have tried to reach an extension of the possibility of using so-called tourist vouchers in a way that could be used for the costs of energy operators, but the government has insisted on maintaining the purpose of the vouchers by doing so in its passiveness. Obviously, the government is waiting for the energy crisis to rage into a fire that has long been known to be of great scale. It is comforting that the country is ready to act when and if, as Minister Wrotec has repeatedly pointed out, it does not help the citizens much. When and if they are already given to them in fact and together with them, we wonder when the situation will grow to the point that it will be time for Slovenia to move. [[Incomprehensible]] So we're wondering if winter will really be over sooner. The government has also held a meeting in which we have discussed the law several times, stressing that the measures are ready and that the law will soon be in the National Assembly, but unfortunately the past developments on this subject give us optimism and we will really believe only when we hold it in our hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Branko Simonovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! When we talk about energy poverty, we find that it is most often the sum of low incomes of energy waste and high energy prices. Already in 2019, data show that in Europe around 50 million people are struggling with energy poverty, even in us the 10 percent of households that have the lowest income on average spend as much as a quarter of their heating income and the rest of their energy consumption at home. And the crisis has driven these indicators to heaven, which is especially painful for pensioners and pensioners. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we understand very well that vulnerable citizens and citizens need to be helped without delay to settle their energy bills. The proposal for a law on temporary measures to prevent energy poverty, which provided for an energy credit for vulnerable groups and lower-income households, was not supported on the home labour body and the draft law was concluded there. The Committee, however, adopted two important decisions to call on the Government to examine and adopt measures within 15 days to temporarily reduce contributions and excise duties on energy consumers and thereby financially burden citizens and citizens. This is particularly important in the light of the fact that the cost of energy is too high for those families and individuals with average income. The second decision concerns the call on the Government to prepare an explanation of the sectoral legislation where there will be a clear distinction between domestic and business customers. The representative of the Government said that he was in agreement with the bill itself, as other issues affecting the level of the tables had also been raised in the field of energy. Therefore, the Government is already preparing its proposal for a law that will fully address the issue and also provide assistance to vulnerable groups. While we understand in the DeSUS Group that the proposers have prepared their proposal, time is not enough and, of course, we are also committed to speeding up the aid. As Members, we are obliged to deal with such a problem and seek solutions that are unfortunately not easy. In view of the fact that the draft law has completed its course on the working body, the appeal of the DesSUS Group to the Government to send its proposal to the legislative procedure immediately, thus providing assistance to vulnerable groups, where, unfortunately, pensioners and pensioners also fall too often. Even though pensioners have received a supplement during the epidemic, this unfortunately does not solve the hardships and poverty of those who receive the lowest pension. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the draft law on temporary measures to prevent energy poverty has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER CONSTRUCTION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS OF THE WORK-TERM LEGISLATION LEGISLATION IN THE context of a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members with Mark Bandelli, the first to be signed. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mark Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u20	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the SAB Group, we have listened to independent entrepreneurs, craftsmen and employers who have been calling for a number of years to reduce the period of payment of the hospital allowance to the burden of the employer. We have proposed a shorter period of compensation for the disease to be paid at the burden of the employer from the current 30 to 20 days. If Slovenia wants to continue its journey as a social state and continue to maintain these standards and, of course, we are in favour of the SAB party, it must take care of a strong economy. The epidemic was taxing itself. Many companies have ceased to operate, while many foreign companies have left Slovenia because of its lack of competition in the area of labour costs. Now that the epidemic is over, it is the right time for the state to take long-term measures to raise economic activity to the highest possible level. The proposed novel has several objectives. The first is to approximate the position of self-employed or independent entrepreneurs in the position of employees in the enjoyment of the right to hospital leave. It is recalled that under the current legislation all necessary taxes and contributions are paid for 30 calendar days, although in case of illness they cannot work and generate income. Delays in the payment of taxes and contributions cannot be put at risk by the immediate execution and costs associated with it, as well as by the loss of business as far as the tendering is concerned. All too often, then, these categories of employees, self-employed persons cancel their sick leave or minimize it to a minimum and start working even if they are not healthy. This further harms their health, the health of their co-workers, business partners and, as a result, damage to the progress of the wider work process, which also entails costs. All this has been shown in practice by the disease epidemic COVID-19. With a shorter period of coverage of the hospital in the burden of the employer, they would have had an impact on the reduction of the remuneration, as it would have been easier for the employer to decide on the regular employment of the self-employed because the worker would have been a lower cost for them. As the proposed changes will also have a positive impact on the competitiveness of the economy, this can attract new investors. The new jobs we would create would also increase the revenue of the state budget, the treasury, the PSIZ and, of course, the health treasury. It is true that the expenditure of the hospital compensation institution will initially increase, according to our estimate to a maximum of €35 million, but it is also true that the long-term financial implications can be even lower than the expected results mentioned in the proposal. The improved health status of self-employed persons can, as a result, result in a lower burden on the health register. The financial implications cited in the institution certainly seem exaggerated and unrealistic to us. Our assessment is based on data in 2019 as we estimate that data in 2020 and 2021 due to the impact of Covid crisis are not the most realistic. If the institution's calculations also include an estimate that the patient's salaries will be higher because the salaries are higher, which is logical, then the fact that higher wages and higher employment also make it more profitable to pay health bills. It is certainly not right for some to talk only about costs without telling how much more income will be on the other hand. Thank you all for supporting our proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. I give the floor to President Eva Irgle to present the report to the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! At its 70th emergency meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considered a proposal for a law amending the Labour Relations Act submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Mark Bandell. The College of Presidents adopted a decision to consider the proposal for a law following a reduced procedure. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposed law in accordance with its powers. Her representative said that they had no comments on the text of the draft opinion law and subsequently noted that the implementing provision of the bill could have a retroactive effect, which was why the Committee's amendment proposal had also been drafted. The Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons then gave its opinion, which supported the proposed amendments. In the introduction, the draft law was presented by a representative of the applicant. He was followed by a representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, who said, among other things, that the proposed amendment to the law from the worker's point of view did not bring significant changes, since the worker's right to compensation was not changed in the event of a reasonable absence from the disease or injury. He pointed out that the remuneration was a social security right from the employment relationship and meant the continuity of payment in the event of the worker's right to be absent from the work to be provided in the future. The Ministry therefore pursues the objective of proper treatment of workers even in the absence of health reasons for which the specific proposed amendment of the law is without prejudice; it cannot be contested from a professional point of view of the proposal in question. There was a debate in which a member of the committee felt that the proposal was unwarranted and unacceptable, both in terms of the preparation and adoption process, which had completely excluded social dialogue and the public, as well as from a substantive point of view. He explained that the latter does not bring anything to the employees and that the financial situation of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance will result in fewer compulsory health insurance rights, fewer health care services, poor access to health services, poor quality of health insurance or a combination of these consequences, and in the long term, in the absence of systemic solutions, the potential deprivation of rights from compulsory health insurance. The second explained that a similar solution had already been proposed in 2018 by New Slovenia, which provided that the period of compensation for the disease or injury to be paid to the employer would be reduced to 15 days from the current 30 working days for each absence of work, but unfortunately the proposal would not be accepted. He also explained that when adopting legislation, it was necessary for Members to step together and go to independent entrepreneurs. The Committee adopted a proposal for an amendment to the Committee and, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on both articles of the bill and adopted them. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended proposal is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u23	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion of the Government, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Flower Uršič, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u24	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The proposal underlines that the bill has long-term positive effects on the economy and on human health and is expected to have a positive impact on the reduction of the penal work. The greater competitiveness of the economy, the reduction of the penal work, health concerns are the priorities of this government, and therefore this bill cannot be contested in this respect. However, from the professional point of view of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which is also responsible for the Labour Relations Act, it should be pointed out that the remuneration is the right from the labour relationship and constitutes the continuity of payment in the event of the worker's right to work, which must be provided now and also in the future. Therefore, from a professional point of view, the proposed amendment to the Labour Act, which reduces the period of sickness or injury to be paid in the burden of the employer, does not entail significant changes from the worker's point of view, since the extent of the worker's right to compensation is not altered in the event of a reasonable absence from work or the amount of this compensation. Therefore, once again, from a professional point of view, such a proposal cannot be opposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The presentation of the positions of the groups of Members is next. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u26	Nice greetings to all present. Thank you so much for saying that. We have a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Zdr1-c Labour Relations Act, which was submitted to the Parliamentary procedure by a group of Members and Members with Mark Bandell. The amendments to the law refer to the remuneration for the duration of the sick leave. The proposal therefore reduces the period of sickness or injury compensation paid to the employer by the current 30 working days for each percentage of work, but for a maximum of 120 working days per calendar year. For 20 working days for each percentage of work, but for a maximum of 80 working days in the calendar year. It was currently in force that the employer was obliged to pay compensation for the sick leave for 30 working days, while the compensation for the sick rate fell under the burden of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. The proposed amendments to the law are intended to allow self-employed craftsmen, entrepreneurs to enjoy an equal position in the enjoyment of health insurance rights or in the enjoyment of the right to compensation for the absence of a hospital, since due to a strict order in the existing law, self-employed persons should not benefit from the absence of a hospital, but should also go to work with the sick. The objective of decommissioning the financial burden economy and increasing the competitiveness of the domestic economy is set out below, and the aim is to reduce laxative work. The applicants are of the opinion that due to the high financial burden on hospital compensation, employers are not supposed to decide on regular employment or on fixed-term employment. For many years, employers as well as independent entrepreneurs and farmers and their associations and associations, such as the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia and others, have been alerting the problem. In the view of the employer, the compensation for hospital absence for up to 30 days is often the cause of temporary and short-term employment and the work of the contract, as the burden on employers and, in particular, independent entrepreneurs is too great and cannot afford or can't afford it. This reduces the use of hospital absence to work despite the poor health status of the independent entrepreneur. Long-term such behaviour is not recommended, as it can lead to increasing health problems for workers and employees, i.e. self-employed entrepreneurs, which can also be reflected in a large number of long-term health problems between the labour population and also in a large number of disability. The proposed novel eliminates the causes of many problems of Slovenian craftsmen and entrepreneurs, and the motivation for employers to enter into regular jobs will also be increased. We have record employment, but employers still serve too many short-term forms of employment. Therefore, because of this labour legislation, they are concerned about the long-term procedures of forgiveness and others. The amendment supports and welcomes the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia, the Association of Employers of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and, of course, the Council of State also agreed with it. When considering the novel, a number of questions are raised, namely whether the proposed solution will have positive effects on more jobs in the form of a regular working relationship and whether those who, through the proposal, improve their quality of life and social status will be motivated to return as soon as possible from hospital absence to work. On the other hand, in terms of employers' burdens, i.e. economies, due to reduced labour costs and financial burdens, as well as compensation for the absence of a hospital in the burden of employers, increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. So the proposed novels are difficult to oppose. While we are aware that it is necessary to make the costs of work comparable to those of other members of the European Union, that is to say, to reduce them, and that the real sector can survive a competitive fight only on the assumption that our jobs and products have high added value, we will continue to work towards economic growth. We will therefore support the proposal for a law amending the Labour Relations Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u28	Have a nice hello to you all. I regret, however, that this point and the next point, which in fact has exactly the same content and purpose and purpose, do not deal with this together, but we are wasting time. I also regret, in particular, that it is not at such an important point that we are dealing with today by the Minister of Health, because the operator of all of this will be a health treasury, and regardless of which I am talking about the Labour Relations Act or we are talking about the Health and Health Insurance Act, but it is nothing new to the Minister hiding from this institution from the very beginning. He comes only once or twice, sends the Secretary of State, but this trip did not seem worth protecting a medical cash register, not at the proposed amount of 34 million, 35 million, but close to 100 million, 94 million, exactly. The bill itself, in order to relieve employers of the hospital stock, is actually a nice one, and in fact it would also be supported by a number of common sense, but, of course, if it were to provide additional resources for those who will be burdened with it, we do not even know where it will come from. We have been able to see, communicate, and, finally, through health bills, that the health department will have only 22 150 million losses, deficits. An additional 100 million means 250 million. However, if we look to the future, we will be faced with the elections in all likelihood and it is no secret that the Government has already adopted positions, the negotiating points for the new medical salaries that this National Assembly has adopted and announced with the PKP-10 are said to be doctors who would have come from the 57th Wage Class to the 63rd Wage Class, which is the requirement of the first Kuštrin trade unionist, which requires that for all doctors and raise six classes an additional 150 million Euros before the elections, which means, if we calculate what this means, 300, 400 million burdens for health stores in two months. What does that mean? Of course, the patient, the user, the person who pays him medical bills, does not tell him that they will be even longer waiting species because this will have to be integrated into the price of services, so that there will be even less money for health services, because simply this money does not get the health treasury. We all spoke out loud in this hall that more money should be given to health care for all, but in fact, it is definitely taken by him when we do not tell him how we will solve this issue. More. Let's do something else that's most terrifying to me in the whole case, and that's to tell someone something, and then we'll be doing what we've been reading to them. The health depository should have a system guard just as the pension fund has it. We can play with pensions and here we make a premeditated promise of higher pensions, but if the pension fund runs out of money, we know exactly who it is who will pay for it. It's a budget. Do you know this about the health department? No, the medical checkbook doesn't have these fuses, which means she's going to lose. But in case it doesn't go to espa, but it's going to go to public institutions, we're going to have a financial hole in public institutions. Have we ever lived this movie before? Yeah, first time and second time. All, all Members of Parliament, all 90, and especially the coalition and representatives of the government, are most responsible because they have a majority. In LMŠ, of course, we will not support this proposal, which destroys the health treasury and the rights of the security guards.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mag. Dejan Židan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. I'm just asking you to be a little quieter in internal communication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u30	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State and co-worker, everyone else is welcome. Unfortunately, the rule is, if you give anything, you get nothing. Unfortunately, this also applies to health and health. Everyone sitting here with me is worth it. We're speaking in public. We all understand the importance of health. And we all understand the importance of the right that if you get sick in time to receive health care in a solidarity way. However, the fact is that health care needs to be paid. An important part of payments, but unfortunately not all payments for health and health care, go to Slovenia in a solidarity way. What is this solidarity? That the one who has more pay, in absolute amount, the one who has less pay less or more significantly less. And this is guaranteed by the public health treasury. Public health bills because of, of course, the need for services is increasing, we as a society are growing older. If they were, then people who were sick would no longer come to Slovenia in time for the necessary services. And so today it would be right to talk about how to bring more money into a health treasury in a solidarity way. Because the alternative, if we don't solve it, is what? Is this about letting people down? The alternative is private health insurance, where there is no solidarity. Therefore, the right ones jumped on this proposal out of joy and scream because it goes in the direction of their understanding of health, to be private and to strengthen personal but not personal health, to strengthen private health insurance companies that are not solidarity. Which, unlike a public health treasury that works for a margin of 1.4% of a private health insurance company, if you look at supplementary health insurance, they only spend more than 8% on their operations and, of course, they are looking for profit. And now that we already know that 145 million people are missing this year, that people will at least roughly maintain public health status, which is already not working with enough power, but is missing 145 million, what are you doing? You take between €80 million and €95 million after calculating the cash register. Well, that's clear. That means less favors. Less service for pensioners, less services for young people, for employees and unemployed people. See the number 100 million is not an innocent number, as we discussed in this National Assembly, how it is necessary to obtain 50 million for additional services in order to reduce waiting lines and help those who need the most help. Now, just like that, we're gonna take another 100 million. If you were a person in the first place, you'd be talking about what today? How to provide 350 million for public health bills because it is only by doing so that public health can be maintained in a solidarity manner. Everything else is just empty words. Of course, they are enthusiastic employers; let us give the employer’s expense to reduce, and keep on, this mantra. Yeah, isn't that a person in this country in the first place, that is, a man? With today's proposal, we're going in the wrong direction. Today's proposal really means 145 million minus plus if I round up another 100 is 250 and the government has already promised to pay in public health an additional 100. Public health wages represent 60% of all costs, so we are currently short 350 million. People of God. Lack of money in public health means that people will be left alone, except for those who are rich and can pay out of their pocket and other than those who pay higher sums of money into insurance at private health insurance companies. But they're not pensioners. This is not the majority of citizens and citizens. Therefore, it is clear that the Social Democrats will not be able to undermine this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u32	President, thank you for your word. The Slovenian health system is brought down through the so-called medical treasury, which acts as a payer of material and services. In general, we can point out that about as much money as health - care supplies as people in this country can hope for. The proposal that we received today at the table is one of the obligations of this medical treasury, which is to cover the hospital absence after 30 days of this absence only reduces to 20 days. In this process, almost 100 million hard holes are being placed in the health register, in a situation where it shows that in 2022 alone, 150 million euros are already running out in the current year. Why this hole is coming, we can see it very quickly. It's like a capital service. The first problem of the proposal, which reduces public coverage of hospitals and the burden on employers, is that it does not distinguish between different employers. The same service is given to a prenuptial worker who, in fact, needs public funding of the absence of the hospital substantially earlier than 30 or 20 days, we have given this action in Levica the name of the prenuptial hospital, but unfortunately did not receive parliamentary support when we drove it through Parliament and, on the other hand, there is a large amount of capital in the same corner of the proposal, such as the commercial chains, which record up to one billion annual net profits. And it is intended that all citizens and citizens, with their contributions to the health treasury, will relieve their other business practices and forge profits. In Levica, of course, you can imagine this very strongly. What we need is more solidarity between the public health system and no less. The EUR 100 million lost per year in the health treasury is translated into longer waiting periods, translated into poorer care. Again after two years at the table, the risk of a basket of rights being broken that people from their health insurance can expect to be covered when they go to a doctor. And as a result, that means more self-payment. You know, what hurts the most in this country is talking about a large working majority that benefits the public health system, and rich private people can afford their doctor directly from their wallets, just as ordinary people can't. The additional problem of the proposal is in the political context in which we are located. We know that the agenda of amber in the health field is the spread of a solidarity public health treasury. Cutting through the public health system, its decomposition, its privatisation in the name of very tangible material interests. Private health insurance companies, privileged work within doctors, private medical practices, etc. The interest of janchism after the collapse of public health is elsewhere; bringing people to despair and the misery of a widespread social state. Because only desperate people in distress are easy targets for conspiracy theories that Jancism revolves around and with which it sustains itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u33	Mr. Kordish, I beg you to refrain from such indiscretions.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u34	I do not see any reason why we would still be holding the stand in the opposition and supporting it with proposals such as those of today. The alternative to Janshism, which is supposed to be represented in the opposition, is going in a completely different direction. It means strengthening the public health system, abolishing supplementary health insurance, banning the doctors of amphibians, the hospital for nicknames, the budget guard for the health treasury, etc. What we are dealing with today is no alternative to Janshism, but only alternative to Janshism.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Comrade Kordish, I give you a reminder for the insulting presentation of the position of the Group of Ambassadors. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u36	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Every man needs an environment that enables and promotes development to realize his talents. The task of the State is to create an environment like this. In doing so, he must leave people with a greater measure of freedom so that they can make their own success story. In the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, we have already tabled three amendments to the Labour Relations Act, last September 2018 at the beginning of the previous government's mandate. We have listened to independent entrepreneurs, craftsmen and farmers who have pointed out that the period that must pass before they are entitled to compensation from the ZZZS funds is too long and forced to work despite the disease. After the current regime, up to a refund in the first 30 working days of the hospital stock is practically 40 calendar days and this is absolutely too long. Therefore, it often happens that, in order to ensure an existing minimum, an independent entrepreneur reduces the hospital and starts to operate, although he is not yet healthy, which is especially true for those who do not have employees. This is happening to us. Self - employed people shorten their hospital and go to work because their business is falling apart and they are doing sick work. During the hospital stock of independent entrepreneurs, craftsmen and farmers, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia must take over the burden earlier. Our initial proposal was 15 days after today's proposal and this will happen after 20 working days. The proposed amendment therefore reduces the period when the employer pays the remuneration from his own resources in cases where the worker is unable to work because of his illness or injury, which is not related to work. This allows Slovenian craftsmen, independent entrepreneurs and farmers to take their health first and be able to recover during the time of the hospital stock not only so that they can pay their contributions at the end of the month. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we are pleased that our proposals, which we brought to the National Assembly in 2017 and 2018, will finally take place in 2022. It does not matter to us who makes or supports the law, for we always think about the direction that change will mean for people and how it will improve their lives. We are pleased that this change will ease the financial burden on the economy and, in particular, improve the situation of craftsmen, self-employed persons and farmers with regard to the enjoyment of health insurance rights in the event of a hospital absence. The aim of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats – is to create an enabling business and business environment for the development of new ideas and higher added value. We must all have more than economic success. We promote excellence and progress, we reward work and we bet on entrepreneurship. The business environment in Slovenia, despite some very encouraging figures, cannot be satisfied. The Swiss Institute for Management Development ranked Slovenia 40th in its 2021 World Competitiveness Scoreboard for 64 countries. We are aware that entrepreneurs need to be burdened and confronted with both tax policy and de-de-barcation, digitisation and solutions, as we are looking at today. That is why we will unanimously support this amendment of the law in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u38	Thank you, President, for your word. Good-bye, everybody! If Slovenia wants to continue its journey as a strong social state and continue to maintain these standards, we must also take care of a strong economy. Today, we are recording economic growth, but we can be pushed into a worse situation than we had since 2008. The proposed novelty reduces the period of payment of the compensation for the absence of sick leave in the burden of independent debtors and employers from the current 30 to 20 days. We believe that due to a few days of a shorter period, the employer will not reduce the obligation to work safely and to a healthy environment. It is in every employer’s interest to do as much as possible to protect health and promote it. If he fails to comply with these rules, he shall bear the burden of a regressive claim imposed on him by a health treasury. Novela SAB puts in the forefront of the singles, including a large number of holiday workers, cultural workers, craftsmen and farmers. We have 200,000 economic organisations, 95% of which are micro-organisms, 160,000 employees and more, they are self-employed. Under the current legislation, all the necessary taxes and contributions are paid for 30 calendar days, even though they cannot work and generate income in the event of illness — this novel is meant to do so. All too often, therefore, these categories of employees cancel out sick leave and work, although they are sick - this has been detected clearly and loud - and abandoning treatment and rest until final recovery can lead to serious health problems. With our solution, we take care of the health of the self - employed because they themselves often neglect it because of their own existence, and this is truly sad. This law has financial implications, as do many of the laws recently passed in the National Assembly, which I estimate are burdening the budget completely needlessly for more than 100 million euros. Unlike these laws, the novelty, which reduces the hospital burden of penitentiary workers for employers, will have positive effects, both for the economy and for the health of the people to which it is directed. We believe that the objectives pursued by this law will be achieved - the position of independent debtors will be closer to the position of employees. Due to the lower financial burden of payment of hospital leave, employers will be more likely to opt for permanent and regular employment of workers, a higher level of health that will prevent long-term incapacity to work. And that's because people won't choose between health and survival. The financial implications that we have taken into account in the drafting of the law are based on the 2019 data, which is logical, since in 2020 and 2021 they are not relevant due to the impact of the cod crisis. Those who state different financial effects should, of course, say what they have taken into account in these effects. The health department shall take account of its calculations. Did she also take into account the health bills of her calculations and the increase in wages and the number of employees? We should honestly say how much, due to this same effect, the higher health allowance revenues will be. I'll just give you an example. The 13 per cent increase in wages and 3 per cent higher employment increases the financial impact of the proposed law by as much as a few million euros. On the other hand, this means 400 million higher revenues for health bills. I guess I made myself clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mag. Dusan Verbič will present the position of the Group specifically. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, chairman. It's a nice greeting for everyone! We often hear and read that our economy is specific and that the small economy is the backbone of the Slovenian economy. We believe that even those who are not inclined to reject the amendment of the Labour Relations Act cannot deny this for simple reasons, because there are more than 90 per cent of micro and small enterprises among Slovenian companies, because micro and small enterprises created half of the income and profits in the private sector before the crown crisis and because there are around 350 000 people in the small economy. Today's amendment to the Labour Relations Act replaces the employer's burden on the individual absence from work from 30 to 20 working days. The total period in each calendar year in which the remuneration is paid to the employer shall also be reduced from 120 to a maximum of 80 working days. It is therefore not a completely different arrangement from the current one, nor does it affect the scope of the worker's rights when it comes to a legitimate absence from work. We agree with the proposaler that in the absence of a hospital, the employer or the sole debtor is subject to additional costs and the risk of loss of income. In the case of a single debtor, the loss of income is almost an absolute fact. During the absence of a hospital, which is not related to work, the employer is subject to additional costs related to the reorganisation of the work process. We also agree that the proposed solution also protects employment to a certain extent and reduces the unemployment rate. Some stakeholders' comments on the proposed solution were, inter alia, focused on ensuring social dialogue and the competence of the Economic Social Council. We are also in the Group of Members, in particular, firmly in the position that social dialogue is at the heart of the successful co-existence of all economic operators and labour market players. Members' calls should not be taken because an agreement between the social partners is needed first and every time we reach into the labour legislation. However, there is no alternative proposal for a table at the time, and so is today, as the employer, independent entrepreneurs, farmers and also cultural workers have been calling for certain amendments to this legislation for many years. Initially, we have already highlighted why our economy is specific. Because the comparison of the Slovenian economy with other national economies where the market is dominated by medium and large enterprises makes no sense at all. The result of the new crown of the virus will leave a multi-year harmful mark on our economy, we must also be aware of the role of the Slovenian consumer when we speak of our customs and support for the Slovenian economy. In the Group of Members, we are very much in favour of the entire Slovenian economy and in this case employers. In particular, we stress the importance of Slovenian independent entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, crafts and craftsmen and Slovenian farmers and farmers. For this reason, we will support the proposed amendment of the Labour Relations Act in particular in the Group. We will also support the amendment of the Health and Health Insurance Act, which will be treated as the next item, but is substantively linked to the drafting of this amendment of the Labour Relations Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present. We have before us a proposal that we are not talking about for the first time today. This is an identical objective, that is to reduce the period in which the compensation for the absence of a hospital burden on the employer was sought in 2018. The time period for the absence of a hospital burdened by the employer would, as proposed, be reduced from the current 30 to 20 days, or from 120 to 80 days, due to non-work-related diseases and injuries. The Ambassadors of the Desus Group find the proposed content of the laws difficult to agree with. This has not been favoured by our colleagues in their term of office before this. In doing so, we remain principled and do not change our mind. Unlike some other parliamentary groups or fellow Members who have occupied the seats of Members at the time of the vote on attempts to introduce similar novelties in the previous Assembly. Labour and legal legislation is, as a rule, amended in dialogue with the social partners. This is the only way to build the success of Slovenian society and maintain the social state. It is true that this change would not harm the employees in any way, as it is only important for them to receive the compensation in the time of the hospital stock and not who is the payer of the hospital compensation. So self-employed people are the ones that will absolutely do better, because they will be able to save a lot at any hospital percentage that will last longer than 20 days. This savings in the world of economic operators and entrepreneurs, however, means, of course, a deficit in the health treasury, which will of course be burdened by higher expenditure. This year's health department is likely to record 150 million deficits. Let us add to this the financial impact of this proposal, which, according to the calculations of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, would be three times higher than the financial assessment made by the bill-maker, and we are on a strong 250 million void this year. Member States of the Desus Group fear that this void will be filled either by raising the mandatory health insurance contribution rates or by increasing additional insurance. However, it will be even worse if justice is sharpened and the absence of health services worsens. And who's gonna make it worse? Such ad hoc interference with the social protection system with capital layoffs, with an excuse for greater competitiveness, has so far not proved justified. Especially not good for people. We saw this 25 years ago when the rate of contribution for pension insurance fell and the rate of leave was granted to employers. Workers, later as pensioners, carried the consequences of a drastic deficit in the pension register. And not only in tightening retirement pensions, but also in lower pensions. Members of the Desus Group The proposal for amendments to the Labour Relations Act of the Health and Health Insurance Act cannot be supported. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greeting to all present in the hall! In view of the fact that the proposal for a law amending the Labour Relations Act and the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act are governed by common matter, we will give a position on both proposals at this point. The bill reduces the period of compensation for a disease or injury not linked to work and is payable to the employer from the current 30 working days to 20 days. The economy has driven development and, if we are to relieve the economy, we will thus get new jobs, which will have a favourable impact on the labour market, and the systemic problem is also the length of the hospital stocks, as it is not normal for individuals to be in the hospital stock for years. There's a lot of things wrong with this status. According to the marriage solution, employers will certainly win. The proposed change from the worker's point of view does not bring significant changes as the worker's right to compensation is not changed in the event of an excused absence. First, each individual, and then the society, must be responsible for avoiding the dangers that lead to injury or disease outside the workplace. Health is a high and secure value of today's society. In view of who will “finance” the time of the absence of the hospital, the latter will not only help to reduce these. The argument that the law will have a positive effect on, does not reduce the fine work, the reduction of the fine work, is not in place. To the extent that employers are burdened by hospital payments [[?]] absence means that this is an additional incentive to conclude [[?]] employment contracts. In this place, however, I point out that much more damage is done by supporting the fine work with the student work. Student travel is used by both employers and their either eligible carriers or by fictitious carriers. Also, the form of work through a variety of author contracts and p.s. is a path that usually leads to laxative work. The only form of employment that eliminates such work is the conclusion of a contract of employment, since it is only in such a way that the worker is provided with social security. Any form of work where the worker works according to the employer’s instructions is a form of employment and cannot be regulated through other legal bases. When it comes to the dependency of the relationship between the worker and the employer, it is always the basis of the employment contract. Some achieve their rights in court, many of them do not. A greater role should be played here by the labour inspectorate, who should, on an official basis, ensure that there is no abuse of certain legal grounds on the employee. We do not understand, however, a proposaler who opposes changes in income and does not support the amendment of the Income Law, where all people would actually acquire it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Yuri Lepi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u46	Have a nice hello again. Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, good day again! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will support the amendment of the Labour Relations Act. We will also support the Health and Health Insurance Act, which is substantively linked to the amendments to the statutory law governing working relationships. I will therefore present my position on both agenda items in the next few minutes. With both novelties, in the event of temporary inability to work, illness or injury unrelated to work, it is envisaged to reduce the period of payment of the remuneration to the burden of the employer or independent debtor, from 30 to 20 working days. According to the first-signed bill, colleague Bandelli, the proposed changes would bring the situation of self-employed persons closer to the position of employees in the exercise of health insurance rights; less fine work would be done and the economy would be burdened when it comes to work injuries. While the assessment of the reality of these consequences differs, employers are expected to support the proposal and employees' representatives are a little more critical, which is also expected. Undoubtedly, it would be better to have a minimum consensus on the proposed amendments or that there would be an agreement at the level of social dialogue. It is also necessary to take into account certain comments made by the Health and Health Insurance Institute, which will suffer from a certain financial deficit from this title. It will therefore be necessary to consider in a relatively short time additional long-term financial resources from which these additional costs will be covered. Nevertheless, the proposed laws are a step forward in regulating the situation of self-employed and farmers. One of the shortcomings in the current regulation is that a single entrepreneur often reduces the absence of a hospital and begins work when they have not fully recovered. Or even work despite their illness. Especially those who are unemployed so that they can be replaced in the absence of a hospital. Unfortunately, the cost of existing self-employed working relationships shows such patterns. And in the future, much more political attention will have to be paid to these issues. The economy and the social state are ultimately interconnected and must act hand in hand. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we assess that the bill does not have to be opposed, so we will also support it in the vote. We will also support the amendment of the Health and Health Insurance Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. He wants me to see that there are more interests to discuss, please apply. [[…]] First he gets the word, Jože Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I wish somehow to be involved in this debate on these amendments, of course, in relation to both laws relating to the same content. Of course, it is a good idea to relieve the economy, because of course the economy can then invest more in development and develop faster. And in this direction, I certainly support this initiative. However, I see one problem which, of course, both laws do not solve in any way, the problem is that, on the other hand, we do not have a solution to the health bills and indirectly to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The problem is quite simple, the health treasury warns of the deficit it plans not only this year but also in the coming years, that is one problem. At the same time, of course, this deficit is then covered from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The budget of the Republic of Slovenia, if we remember the adoption of the end of the previous year, also foresees a major structural deficit. I use the word structural deficit on purpose and about a billion and a half when there will be no more expenditure. And here's the problem that we don't solve in this case. So once again, I am in favour of decommissioning the economy, but when we have solutions on the other hand. And we must be so serious in this National Assembly as Members and Members that we must not only look unilaterally at one law but also see a comprehensive solution. And as my colleague has already stated in his position, we are missing here today, and we are missing the Director of the Treasury and also the Finance Minister, who will then have to assemble this whole story and how we will solve it. But if I tell you a little bit more, where is this problem so we can solve all of this? The problem is low GDP. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we must be aware that in 2022 we find that we are still not at the level of GDP on the average of the European Union, where we were, say, 13, 14 years ago, and why did we fall on this average? Throughout it we say that we must keep up or reduce this backlog, and unfortunately, in the long run, we do not succeed. That's the basic problem. However, this is what we are in the last third of the European Union's residents' taxes, says that we are even more lagging behind in taxes than in GDP on average. A research task is available to all in the research department of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, because this shows very well how far we are behind. This also shows how much of this health GDP we give and here we are practically in the last place, and this is the problem, and therefore we must not play and extra burden where we see that we cannot do this anymore is irresponsible. Once again, I stress once again that the economy is decommissioning, but on the basis that there will be other solutions. Plus, I'll give it to you. Slovenia pays all taxes from the GDP created, that is to say all taxes mean all contributions to wages and all the capital taxes of both legal persons and natural persons are collected slightly less than 39% of the GDP. The average of the European Union is around 42%. All developed countries give more than 42% of GDP over taxes, of course, then for all these activities, such as health care, education, pensions, security and all the other things we monitor, which we have to make sure that they function normally. Please let us give you a complete picture of such matters, find a solution to how long - term health care can be saved and everything else. I see solutions in that if the average of the European Union is to give 42% of the generated GDP to taxes and cover all these matters, we will reduce this gap and we will have everything covered. With GDP growth to get closer to once the European Union average, the goal is to reach 60,000 additional values per employee, if we achieve this also this gap to the European Union average, we will somehow catch up and then we will be a richer society. This is why we must invest more in development and, of course, this law, which is here in principle unilaterally, implies that, then, businesses will no longer be left for development, but once again on the other hand we have no solution and we are doing a problem on the other hand without a solution that is not on the table today and in this way it is difficult to accept, then by our good laws, if we do not have a cross-cutting matter in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I know that this warning is not exactly in place for Members, but for the public who listens, I must say that at this stage of the debate or consideration of the law, no representative of the Health Insurance Office or the Institute of Pensions and Disability Insurance can participate. They may participate in the committee if they are invited to a plenary session. They can sit and watch wherever they want and they can't cooperate. First time. Another time. The government has appointed representatives for the debate today at the plenary session of the Ministry of Field Affairs. Third time. We are talking about an amendment extending or suspending the application of the law on 1 March 2022. The general debate in the financial situation, the situation and other matters is not foreseen for the consideration of this law. We could have a direct debate on the committee. Now we continue the debate. Janko Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, given your introductory statement or explanation to my colleague, I can add that if not the other one, he could be the Minister of Health here. What about the Minister of Health? Because the law that we have at the next point and the law that we are considering today or this moment are, of course, related and dependent on one another. For if one or one of these two laws is not adopted, then the law will not be enforceable at all. These are facts, which means it is very important that we discuss this. Especially because both of them are actually tanning for medical bills and it is therefore so much more responsible for the current Minister of Health sitting here. Because the Minister of Health is the one who is the guardian, after all, of all that is happening and what we are doing for the health department. That's a prerequisite. If we're not aware of this, then we have a serious problem. But it is true that very unusual things are happening. If we look at exactly what I'm talking about, it won't look like I'm talking about the amendment. [[…]] The amendment tabled by the Levica Group states that in Article 2 of the text on 1 March 2022, I quote: “1. March For the purposes In my debate, I will try to explain why this is of course very important and what it affects. At first glance it works very easy and we can only spin in numbers and move this date, but in fact the matter is much more complementary and much more extensive. It has much more important consequences than some of them today, of course, you want to testify and, of course, you are convincing how this will reduce the cost of the past, how this will reduce and increase production. Employers will be happy to pay less and so on. Well, the latter – employers will really be happier because they will spend less money on their hardworking workers. In many European countries they boast – as they boast about paying taxes, they also boast of paying their employees’ insurance in one way or another. Now, what matters to me in this marriage is, of course, the following. The government's opinion was more than clear in the case of the Health and Health Insurance Act and as we are currently considering the Labour Relations Act, the following is the case. I will not read it because you all have it in Udis, but a sentence that is very important, because today the Secretary of State has said something else in his position. In view of the above, it is said that what was said in the opinion on this law is as follows: “The proposed amendments to the Act on Working Relations 1 are not supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.” Once again, "does not support". “The Government of the Republic of Slovenia undertakes to address the area in a comprehensive manner, to examine the possibilities of reduced absence for health reasons at the burden of the employer and to prepare appropriate solutions as derived from the coalition contract.” Yes, but today we heard something completely different from the Secretary of State. He said: "There is no professional way to challenge this proposal." Now I am interested, and here I am calling on the Secretary of State — I wonder if the government has taken what we missed and we haven't reached the National Assembly? Because what you said about this stage of speech was not accepted by the government. And who exactly are you representing? Did you represent yourself here behind this stage of speech or the government? This is very important because of the decision taken from the point of view of the procedure. A very, very important question. On the contrary – the Ministry of Health, which, of course, has also drawn up the position of the government which it has decided, speaks as follows, for the Health and Health Insurance Act, which I have already said is very linked and related. “On the basis of the above-mentioned Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal of the law.” Once again, it does not support the bill. Who's crazy here? I'm really wondering if the government, when they're taking something, doesn't even know what they're taking. Of course, I don't think the Secretary of State is crazy, far from it, the Secretary of State knew very well what he was doing here behind this stage of speech, because he's clever - you've heard well - clever. But it is true that this kind of deceiving or even turning the board for the last second, but the government has decided not to make that decision. And look at it, a fraction of it, because Minister Poklukar, who is even the most popular, found that it might even be very damaging to him, did not appear, nor on the committee where this was discussed, nor today in the National Assembly. And this is the Minister of Health, who is the guardian of the health department. Why is that an important question? Above all, because the following things need to be clarified, I am only talking about the facts. The proposal, which reduces the payment of the days that the employer should pay, before 30, is proposed 20 days ago – remember that a similar law has also been introduced by Nova Slovenija before the time, except that they did not talk about 20 days, but about 15 days. And then the marriage was smoothly rejected, without a problem, because everyone knew what it meant - that is 94 million euro of additional burdens for the health department. Where the health department gets them, nobody cares, nobody cares, and that's the saddest thing. Is something going to change for the employee? Nothing. Except for one key thing that is not recorded in the first or second law – that is, he will wait even longer for health care and that a number of health services will not be paid because there will be no money. If the health department has announced a deficit of EUR 150 million in 2022 and we increase it by 94 million, this is an estimate, say and write, let us round up to make it easier to calculate, close to 100 million. And before us, however we look at the negotiations – by the way, on 20 January, with a press release, the government said: “The government has adopted the starting points for negotiating representative trade unions to conclude an annex to the collective contract for doctors, dentists and the negotiating group for negotiations.” In other words - for those who do not understand what this message means - it has turned on the green light to negotiate either to change the collective agreement - but I predict that even a new collective agreement, because doctors or Fides know very well what to achieve, and just before the elections, just before the elections, because I doubt that any government would still be so consistent that only doctors would have to raise salaries for six salary classes, on the basis of Mr Kuštrin's request for all doctors, which means that all doctors will be raised by six pay grade or 24%, which means, say and write, according to the calculations of the current negotiating group, 110 million euros. Who's gonna pay for this? Why are we even talking about doctors' salaries? It will pay medical bills because this price for the salaries of doctors will be calculated in the so-called SPP, it is said that comparable consumption of services provided by healthcare providers will be accounted for there. What does this mean — that the deficit, ergo, will be even higher than I said before. Not 240 million, but add another 110 million. Which means 360 million. We've already won 360 million losses. You know what it means to lose 350 million for the health department? That's terrible information. This means that the programmes are actually being cut down and, more importantly, the longer the waiting species. All we have to do is find a system source to get additional funds from the health department. We have all spoken in the National Assembly that we need at least EUR 300 to 400 million in the health treasury to be able to implement the programme, of course, qualitatively, and that it will be accessible to all citizens. What's going on on the other side? They don't even get to the doctors. Even the doctors. 130 000 people in the Republic of Slovenia no longer have access to their family or personal doctor, a selected doctor. What's going on? There are waiting types in the emergency service because the only one there can get help now and it is valid to say the guide as an example if he gets a travel agent just one day, that day he has to deal with the guide whatever was already posted and then the story ends. Why am I saying this? Because it is on the mill to all those who want to prove that the medical treasury is incapacitated and that it needs to be broken down and finally passed on to private insurance companies and that you want to do so strongly on your right, display a failed and ineffective health system. You've been in a lot of trouble for 20 years now when you allowed doctors to call for specializations themselves, just like they wanted to, and they cut it down and made the doctors important. Important in this sense that they are indispensable. And that's why they can blackmail you today. I'm not talking about all the doctors, but I'm talking about that group that represents doctors, and that's one and the same for years. I will not forget the statements made by the individuals of these representatives, we have time, we will achieve ours, whether you like it or not. Recently, a round table was running, a few days ago, boasting about how they did comparison and presentation of the health systems of other countries and how we need to regulate our system in order to be comparable to those systems. You know how we can do that. Only one way to stop talking about the public health system and doctors are not hiding it anymore is to talk about the so-called famous state health system or the state health system and, look out, watch what they've done, one little thing they've frivolously turned over, instead of the public health system they're now talking to the public service. Sounds good, no. Public service. You know what that means? Everyone has access to health care, I'm not talking about patients, I'm talking about those who carry out health care. And that's what they want. That's what they want. As a result, public institutions will continue to carry out the most difficult, worst, and most expensive cases. That's what we don't want. Once the case is filed, she'll move somewhere else and eventually the patient will be lost. Why am I showing the whole thing so plasticly? Because every such minimal intervention in the health treasury is a nail in the coffin of the health system in the Republic of Slovenia. Explain that to yourself one way or another. It's not the way to solve a leak. Far from it. He's not getting rid of it at all. He's getting rid of himself in a different way. Of course, the possibility and, above all, the logic of hiring people must be introduced without being seen as a cost through espionage. And today, to explain that reducing the hospital stock is a burden with an additional ten days to a medical cashier's office, to rescue the chastity, perverse, but it's really perverse. Explain this to someone else, not because we all know where the exemplary problem is, that even today, employers see the worker as a cost that is significantly easier and cheaper to pay and forgive more quickly if he is espa than if he is employed with them because they pay less. Just look at the balance sheets. An agreement on work done through espé is a cost not a payment for work that is otherwise evaluated and we have a problem here, but no. We will do one incredible intervention in the health treasury a few months, two months before the elections, and it will be further wrecked by an additional 100 million, which is what the coalition and the government are already doing with other steps. The social dialogue was done? No, not again. Yesterday, all trade unions were informed that there was no agreement on this law that went away again. We've seen a lot of things in this government. That he does not respect social dialogue, that all night work is done with extraordinary meetings all with certain special laws, and that is especially dangerous in the end, even so that you do not have the right or to seek the opportunity to oppose this law, we are talking about a human initiative or referendum, which is prohibited. The last thing that seems even more crucial to me in the whole matter is that if anyone thinks this again and again, I say that the National Assembly does not carry the left hand side and that it is wrong to do so. Only we can stop this madman from totaling 90. We need to take sides in how to improve the health system, how to provide it with additional financial resources rather than taking on them some other stories that are regulated in a different way. I'm not gonna say "systemic," but definitely "other laws." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u52	President, thank you for your word. This government has celebrated itself with a lot of dishonest moves, virtually after every social sub-system in which it has been able. Let's talk about the media, the police, the areas of work and social and ultimately in the field of health. The key policy of this government is to use the Covid-19 epidemic to dismantle the solidarity public health system where and how it works. We have seen this in calls to shorten waiting periods, which were not meant to shorten waiting periods, but to make public money available to private people we see this in opposition to them, and to stop the doctors of amphibians, after all, constant appetites after the hospital is transformed into an economic society, to protect commercial health insurance companies that carry out supplementary health insurance and so on. The great advocate of the public health system in this story of the dismantling of social solidarity is our health treasury. The Medical Treasury collects contributions from all citizens and citizens, with which it then covers the material and services necessary to carry out the interventions. In general, we can say as I have pointed out in the position of the Group that our health care is about as strong and as powerful as health-care supplies are available to use them for the treatment of citizens and citizens. The current proposal, which we received at the table by the Alenka Bratušek Group, takes away the poor EUR 100 million each year. She's taking them for what? In order to relieve employers of the 10 day obligation they have to cover their employees' hospital, in particular, the health register shall be included in the coverage of the hospital absence only after the 30th day of this absence. The proposal by Alenka Bratušek reduces the deadline to 20 days. So our public health system is going to be 100 million euros a year just to save more capital and make even more profits. The first problem of this law is that it does not distinguish between individual forms of work that it should. The motioners say that it is supposed to eliminate the chastity, which, of course, is not true in any way. On the one hand, we have laborers who are employed as single-person employees who are very difficult for them, according to any structural logic, we say that employers are employers, that they are entrepreneurs, that they are capitalists, mostly ordinary workers, even in cases where people treat themselves as entrepreneurs. In fact, they're some working people. However, because they do not have a formal employer, they cannot formally go to a hospital or have anyone to cover for them. These people, for these workers, should be provided with and provided with public coverage of their sick leave from the health register, and this is significantly earlier than after 30 or 20 days of their absence. After three days, it would be much more prudent and much more rational to call it a specific hospital for workers. However, when we proposed this measure in Levica, unfortunately there was no listening in the National Assembly to be supported and voted on. On the other hand, the biggest winners will be given the decommissioning of the economy to the detriment of public health care for citizens and citizens, large businesses. Those who already show high profits, such as the trade chains, which turn a bad billion euros a year clean. This law gives them millions more. The consequences will be felt by all citizens and citizens, especially the elderly, who, of course, also need the most health care and health care. Now, a party who plays the role of pensioners' lawyers, which is the right attitude and I support it, even what kind of proposal I already have, it is very difficult to justify to its own members and its own electoral base, why the devil will take away the health system that the Slovenian pensioners benefit from, 100 million euros. 100 million mancks mean poorer health care, because there will be no better money, less employment, fewer interventions within the public health system, because there will be no money for them and this is happening in the context that in 2022 there is already an additional 150 million € minus forecast this year. I really don't understand why Alenka Bratušek, as an opposition party, is kicking his neck in with coalition support, adopting this law and assisting the ambitions of the government of Janez Janša to disperse the Slovenian public health system to cut it open, dismember, privatize and leave it to [[?]] the business of doctors on the one hand and commercial health insurance companies on the other. I really don't understand. Well, aren't we in opposition who oppose these destructive policies of hard individualism and interesting "crushing"? We are not in opposition the alternative to Janshism, which says that people in this country deserve better, especially in the field of health; more solidarity, better care, but not that today at the table, a little before the elections, we read and talk about a proposal that is the particularity of the health policies of Janshism. This, I am certainly not going together, what and how and why the Party of Alenka Bratušek decided to go into this battle and will obviously get it at the expense of public health and with the support of the coalition. Perhaps part of the reason can be found in commercial health insurance companies that carry out supplementary health insurance. You remember that drama about two years ago, when we stood up in Levica to stop supplementary health insurance and that 16 years of delay was completely enough to stop people from paying the bills for 35 euros, so that commercial insurance companies would tear 50 million euros of net profit out of it. That proposal did not go through the National Assembly at the time, and it was also a thorough failure by the then government coalition, with which Levica participated as a contractual opposition. The vote, which ran out of some more starchy version of the abolition of supplementary health insurance, came from two parties who then jumped into the coalition with Janez Janša, and finally from the parties who proposed today’s law. I don't think the next coalition and the alternative to amber can do anything and can't work for insurance companies. Today, this proposal does exactly that – it attacks the health care of people, by opening up the space and possibility of additional commercialisation and additional private insurance companies to the public, because there will be no money in public bags and in public malls to provide health care for people. And that, just to conclude, the abolition of supplementary health insurance would mean a few ten million Euros of contribution from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to the health allowance, and in return virtually 99% of the people in that country would pay substantially less than they are paying now, most of the pensioners would have 35 Euros more in their wallet, and that was not okay and it was constantly mentioned as a problem why we do not have to end the supplementary insurance – yes, because we will not give these few ten million Euros out of the budget. What about today’s proposal that gives employers how much? – €94 million each year. Here's where the money comes in all of a sudden.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm sorry that there's not one of the candidates in the hall, because I was going to ask them a few questions. I listened very carefully to their position, which is based on a perverse claim that they work for self-employed people, i.e. espems and self-employed people in culture. I mean, how? These people will still be — if we talk about those who are single - person espions, say, or self - employed in culture — for 20 days without covering the hospital. And we know that diseases that aren't the most serious of nature, week or two weeks you're very sick, you can't work, so they won't be able to earn anything, and they'll still have nothing to do with it. That's how clean sand is in your eyes. And the same proponent, when we proposed in Levica in 2017 this solution for single-person espas and self-employed in culture to cover the hospital from the fourth day of the hospital absence, opposed. So, how is it possible that today's proponents are building their argument right on this population? No, what they are proposing will, in particular, relieve large companies to the detriment of the public health treasury. This means an additional blow to the public health system, about a 100 million additional hole, which is now 150 million, and we know that the budget does not cover this hole. And it was also the proponents who, when we proposed in Levica that the budget cover the hole in the health treasury, as it does in the pension, were also the proponents against this proposal, a while ago. This meant that they were against the proposal that self-employed, single-species and self-employed people in culture should be paid from the fourth day forward by the hospital and were against this guardian's proposal. Now let the applicants present to me how they will and how they will cover this hole, or to explain to the pensioners they claim to represent, why such a deep hole in the health register will reduce the level of health services. It will further extend the waiting lines and prevent the integration of newer health technologies – this will also happen. This should be explained by the applicants to their pension base, which is reportedly represented by the largest healthcare user. Because older than you are, I'm afraid, unfortunately, you need health care. Now I really want to know how you're going to explain this. I'm sorry you didn't hear me because you just got to the gym. Once again – you did not support Levica's proposal in 2017 to cover medical compensation for the hospital for the single person and self-employed in culture from the fourth day. What helps a self - employed person in a culture or a painter, a doppelganger, if he gets 14 days sick — those 20 days, forgive him — will do no good. Nothing's gonna help. However, it will start, and it will, in particular, roll the public health treasury and thus impoverish health services, thereby helping to further dismantle the public health system and thereby direct the arrow towards privatising this health system. And this at the time of the covida, where we saw very clearly how important the public health system is, so for all of us citizens and citizens. Not to talk about poorer layers, but about the pensioners that you say you represent. So that's something I find extremely incomprehensible. It's incomprehensible to me that you don't even listen to what union headquarters say that are united about how harmful this move of yours is. Since the system funding resources will be even smaller and I don't understand it, I don't understand. You seem to be advocating that we need to maintain the public health system, that we even need to strengthen it — yes, by what? With what? So if we're going to have 250 million plus at least those young people or those bodies paying classes, that's 350 million holes. [[…]] Yeah, well, what are we gonna cover this with if there's no system guard to cover the budget? Against which you were exactly the proponents before the time that we proposed this security guard in Levica. As we say, when we proposed to protect the self-employed and the espionage of the single person, on which you are building your argument today, which is turned around. Because you're not really going to help them. Those who are not very seriously ill will be well after 20 days if they have a virus. In the meantime, he loses his job, his business, and he's out of income just like that, right? So please, this is And I would say something else, you say that the comparative review shows that the European Union countries are paying workers to pay their salaries lower than in Slovenia, yes, but you are not changing the amount of compensation, you are reducing the number of working days covered by the employer. [[…]] That's an essential difference. And in this respect, Slovenia is now comparable to many European countries – for example Denmark, Belgium, Croatia, Finland, Germany, in Austria, the payment of compensation takes over compulsory insurance only after the sixth to twelfth weeks of the hospital, which means that capital takes on a relatively higher burden than in Slovenia. In Luxembourg, for example, compensation is paid only after 13 weeks of compulsory insurance and so on. Yeah, I really don't get it. I do not understand your logic of how you will provide pensioners with better health care in your way – a pensioner for whom you are supposed to fight all the time. How will this strengthen public health, how? If you're further drilling and diving in the bustle. And how will this help self - employed, single - person espas, and self - employed people in culture? Absolutely not. If you want to help them, you can allow them to have a replacement after four days. Not after 20. After 20, I'm sorry, I'm as healthy as a fish if I have a cold. But if I'm more seriously ill, and those 10 days, the difference won't really help me anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues I'd be happy to answer the mistakes I've made so I won't use anything more harsh. Now, in the beginning. This law was introduced in March last year, so no one can tell us that it is any pre-election law. Marca last year. Today we are dealing with it because there has been a request in our parliamentary group to allow it to be considered at an extraordinary meeting because you want to address another law that regulates certain things for students. Yeah, great. We've given our consent, and that's why we're here today. But you're not gonna tell us it's pre-election. I don't know what. Second thing. When it goes on or on like this, we are in the SAB party and will always support entrepreneurs, craftsmen and self-employed. Why? Because only a successful economy is the basis for a social state. We're just not happy that our people live on minimum wage. We're not happy with that. Even if we pick it up three more times. We want our citizens and citizens to have higher wages, to create jobs in Slovenia that have higher added value. With minimum wage, even if we raise it by 5% or 10%, people can't live with dignity. That's a fact. Now we're going to the numbers. First of all, that's the way it is. Our calculation of financial estimates is based on 2019. Why? Because in 2020 and 2021 you do not seem to be the most appropriate. We all know it was a crisis. We all know that the virus has made our lives and that the picture in the health register is not the most real. Second thing. When Nova Slovenije introduced the law, we had a signed coalition contract that we stuck to. Yes, agreed things need to be kept, dear fellows. Deals need to be kept. When Nova Slovenija introduced a law that would shorten the period not to 20 days, but for 15 days our Government, two LMŠ ministers, finance and health, wrote that it is their law, is said that after 15 days it will start paying ZZZS, a heavy 70 million euros. 15 days 70 and our 20 today you're calling 94 million euros. It's a fairy tale. And even if you clear this assessment of the effects of salary increases, higher employment, higher or more patients, there is an estimate of about 50 million medical bills. Yeah, we could've been wrong about 5 or 10 million. We could have been wrong. In short, this is our then government assessment, I am talking about LMŠ, which is not here, and their ministers have calculated it and signed it. And I had no reason to doubt it at the time and not today. As has already been said, the assessment of the health insurance company also includes that the benefits will be higher in the future because they are higher wages. That's right. That more compensations will have to be paid because more people are employed. That's right. To make more people on sick leave on average, I don't agree here, but the evaluation also includes this. Is that real? We don't know. No news, not you, we don't, we don't. Where'd the money come from? I'll tell you now. They provide for 13 % of the higher fees in the health treasury. 13% higher remuneration and 3% higher employment. That's a total of 16%. But do you know that all of this also means higher income in the health treasury. Do we understand that? And 16% of them, as I said earlier, from where higher income means, read and write, 400 million euros more in the health treasury. 400 million euros more. It is necessary to be precise, respected colleagues and colleagues in financial matters. And not to deceive. When it was necessary to press the long-term supply button there was no problem, and you know what hole hole in the health treasury? Yeah, we didn't vote in favour at the time, because there's no solution, and this marriage is still needed and we're gonna have to, I believe, fix it together. None of you and us have come forward when it comes to the higher salaries of doctors and other health workers. Why? Because that's right. But the pay gap will be much higher than the hole because of this. And the fact is that most of this law will be made up of those who are self-employed and those who have few employees. Because if an entrepreneur, a craftsman, employs three people and is one of these three in the hospital, it's probably clear to everyone how much the cost is. But if there's a thousand employees in the hospital, that's still a lower cost for that company. And not to explain that because of this marriage the pensioner, only one pensioner would have any less service. Because it doesn't hold. That's not true. 400 million plus on the other side of 50 million minus. If we can calculate it, it's plus 350 million euros. I apologize for the slightly more energetic performance, but it's hard to listen when someone talks about numbers that I don't know if he doesn't understand or doesn't want to understand or is deliberately deceiving.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Replica Natasa Sukič first and then Miha Kordiš [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u58	In view of this, the proponent that you were looking at me all the time in Levica we were against when the law on long-term care and when we talked about the salaries of doctors we took a clear position all the time. [[…]] So you can't tell us here that we've spoken differently. Once again, I ask what will happen to single-person espaes and self-employed people in culture, since they have a covered hospital from day 20 instead of day 30. But what happens to them, the first twenty days, when it's most critical, when you get sick, if you don't get sick for some really serious disease of course. But mostly you get sick of colds, viruses, and so on. What's going to happen to them? How do you handle this? And even if your thesis is that it's going to be plus 400 million, our thesis also says that we already have a j150 million hole plus, excuse me, the calculations also show others are now calculating, about 94 million turns out plus what the government has now dedicated to raising pay grade for doctors, so it's minus 350 million. So we're here somewhere, on some level. Does this strengthen the public health system? Are you contributing to the strengthening of the public health system? I highly doubt and there is no guarantee that the wages will therefore be higher if you relieve these large companies for these ten days. There's no guarantee of that, but who says there's gonna be pay for that higher, let me know who says that, where's the guarantee for that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The replica has Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u60	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Yes, numbers should be exact, as Mrs Bratušek said, and then continue to mislead around specific numbers. Public health treasury data, which has a review of hospital, absence and allowances and so on, will be lost between €80 million and €94 million per year. The assessment is anchored by data and expenditure for patients from 2019. And that information is accurate, given by an institution that deals precisely with it. Another time. No one spoke about the additional revenue from contributions to the health treasury. These figures are also quite audacious to refer to in situations where we literally have chaos due to the COVID-19 epidemic and its handling by the current Government of Janez Janša. Looking at this, some magical new additional source of inflows to the health treasury is deliberately pouring sand into the public's eyes a little bit, and the fact remains that the health treasury will lose for the poor 100 million euros. and what will be known in health services mainly for pensioners, who are the biggest beneficiary of the healthcare system because for 100 million euros of services will be less. Yes, arrangements need to be kept once they are concluded, just as we agreed two years ago and decided to end supplementary health insurance, and then your votes are lost among others.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u61	Thank you very much. There's no replica to the replica. That's why I'll reopen if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. Four Members or Members have been notified. Before I give the floor, I would like to point out that on the agenda we are discussing an amendment to Article 2 of the Levic Group. I respectfully ask that we stick to the content, because until now the debate has not only been about this amendment. The word is Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! Let me say that I will support the law, while the amendment that I will now discuss, the amendment of the Left to enter into force only in 2030, will not be supported. All these years I have been working on people's employment, so I have worked very hard with employers, and all these years I am convinced that 30 working days, which is half too much for a month, are too long for an employer to pay in the event of the absence of a worker. Therefore, this law does nothing but shorten these days from 30 working days and shorten the period at the expense of the employer for 20 working days, which is still, in fact, a bad month. Some say yes, the unions have warned us in the last days and are writing us not to do so, but it is true that for many years we have been warned by the economy, every year or for a few years by the publication of the booklet, i.e. the strategy for the development of the business environment 2021-2025, I hope that you have also looked at this and their multi-annual requirements are that hospital compensation should be reduced even to 20 calendar days. So we're not exactly going to their proposal, we're going to 20 working days. All or most of the Members who have debated so far, particularly the opposition one, speak only of the health deficits. The ZZI itself assessed, so these fall to some 80 to 90 million, while in one of the positions I think that the LMŠ has even estimated this to 150 million. But on the other hand, I agree here with what the applicants have already pointed out several times, but no one says that we have record employment, the number of employees has increased by 10% in the last ten years, and every increase in the right number of employees, with each increase in wages, even the minimum wage increases and other wages, of course, also increases in contributions and inflows to the health register, so that we cannot only speak unilaterally about the larger outflows, but it is also right that this other side is then of course evaluated. The fact that the ZZZ is a bad operator, however, I have most often heard from a fellow Member who has told us today that we are saying that the ZZZ is a bad operator. The Health Insurance Office as well as others, of course, including ministries, I think and believe that they have the opportunity to make certain improvements. Indeed, we are one of the countries where only we and Bulgaria have no limited hospital stock. Just before January 14, I read the entire article in the Styrian Week that we also have people who are 10, 12 or more years in hospital. It will probably be necessary to do something here, but not only to shorten the time, which is also necessary, but that people will then move faster to recovery, to have a new job or, after all, disability pensions. But I'm sure they're reserves. Maybe the ZZZ will also make some improvements, where this can be arranged. The material indicates that the costs of the ZZZS compensation are rising, which is logical. In the last two years, they have obviously increased to the covid's account because, if you remember, the costs of hospitals in the case of covida go directly from the Health Insurance Office; they do not go to the employer first 30 days. And it's logical that in the last two years, there's been a huge increase in these benefits, because we actually have a lot of these infections. On the other hand, if we think about where it will stay, because the whole public sector, all employers, all budget users will also pay the hospital for 20 working days, and then the funds will remain on these items. In the economy, in businesses, I believe that these funds will then be able to go into greater development, improvements, and ultimately higher wages for workers, because few will like to show a large profit, because then they pay the tax again. Thus, I believe that companies will make useful use of these funds that will remain in this title, and that there will not be such a large mannequin in the cash register as is predicted. However, I certainly agree, as I said at the outset, that this is 30 working days, i.e. a month and a half, the total annual limit has now been or is still, until the law is passed, 120 working days, when the employer has to cover the hospital annually, in case the worker goes to hospital several times a year; it is now reduced to 80 working days. The biggest problems are certainly small employers, especially single-employees, independent entrepreneurs, because then there is no one to work if they are sick or if they are two. But even for large companies, such a long hospital is a huge cost. Some companies – entrepreneurs wrote to us, or we all know that if a worker is ten years in hospital, they have to pay him a ten-year vacation regress, which I find absurd. That's how both sides need to be heard. Yes, social dialogue, unfortunately, is not going to happen, but if we listen to one side, that is to say, trade unions, it is certainly necessary to listen to the economy, because the only economy will be the one that can save us from these covidus problems. I am so sure that they need to be helped to make the economy recover as much as possible. And this is also one of the measures that can help them, and will then make it easier for them to invest in research, development, improvements, as well as in raising workers' salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Once again, colleagues and colleagues, I would urge you to respect paragraph 2 of Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure, which says that we can only discuss the agenda item on the agenda. Let me point out that on the agenda we have the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors, which is short and says that in Article 2, the text is “1. in March 2022, replaces ‘1. in March 2030’. And I am really reminding you that, otherwise I will take someone's word and it is right that we respect the Rules of Procedure, which has guided us, how we must work. Please. The word has Matthew the Widow, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Yeah, I have to start by stressing that the amendment [[?]] , by which the year of validity of the amendment of the law is adopted, is, not unacceptable to me. In order to accept something today and then come into force in 2030, this seems a little funny, absurd or something else I could call it. On the other hand, I must say that we can look at the proposed novel from two perspectives, which are quite contradictory between us. If we have listened to colleagues and colleagues today, who spoke mainly from the lack of health care, it is true, we can look at it from this point of view, but we can also look at it from the perspective of the survival of the economy, of small enterprises, of private companies, of private companies and possibly of one other aspect, of employers in public administration. Have you ever asked yourself, ‘ How does a manager or a boss who has to assign work to others to redistribute his work, which is absent for 30 working days, since he must not hire anyone else? ’ If in the economy the entrepreneur himself can replace this worker, if he has too much money to take someone, this is not possible in public administration. This is also seen today in education, in health care, in the homes of pensioners. And because he can't get a job because he doesn't have a job system, he can't get an extra job for the duration of his sick leave, he can't redistribute his work to the current employees and so on. [[?]] again, we are causing the cost of medical bills. What is the cost of medical bills, you might ask yourself, due to burnout, which would not be necessary. So, this one, thesis, is very, very intertwined. Whether we agree to look from just one point of view, from the lack of medical bills or to look a little wider, through this framework, and if today we might ask ourselves, who is actually putting money and funds into the health treasury. Money and resources are given to the health economy or employers, all employers, including the public administration and also one part of their savings [[?]] One part of the job is given by the workers. All those who are employed are placed in the health register. And, therefore, it seems incomprehensible to look only through the deficit from the health treasury, because if companies, smaller companies, micro-enterprises fail, then the deficit in the health treasury will be even greater. And, we must not forget that the Covid-19 epidemic has affected the whole society in all areas, it is now very much forgotten, and it is particularly reflected in the economic field, and we are witnessing a major decline here, in particular we will be witnessing a major decline in economic activity. On the other hand, we have an enormous increase in public expenditure to manage the epidemic and its consequences. Indeed, the proposed solution in these two laws, which we will deal with today, is not as [[?]] This reduces the period of compensation for illness or injury to the employer to 20 days or 80 working days throughout the year. It does not bring any benefits to the individual and the employee, but it brings a faster burden on the employer of financial obligations and is a very good measure to increase competitiveness, particularly as I have already said today, to single-employees, micro-enterprises and so on. We're going to save them because they're also saving the medical bills. At the same time, as a fellow Member has already said before me, [[sign for the end of the debate]] I would also like to say and point out to one major pressing problem, the payment of regression in long-term patients who are 5, 10 years old and older, in single-person companies, which is very much a burden and unnecessary for one individual society, and that we must also look for solutions in the future. In the future, we must also address this issue and ensure the survival of small businesses and companies are also the objectives of our party, our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give you my word, I have warned you what is the point of the agenda and in a clever way you have put it in the first place. However, your whole debate was about a second matter, and therefore, on the basis of Article 77, you did not agree on an issue that is on the agenda for a reminder. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, chairman. If this is the case to the public, I think that I have to take all the bats to the floor and make it clear that this action, which will turn the poor EUR 100 million of the annual hole into our public health treasury, is not an action of the democratic opposition. We pleaded, asked to withdraw it from the procedure, let us sit down, let us deal not only in Levica but all the other parties went nowhere and I cannot understand why it helps Janez Janša to dissipate our public health system indirectly privatize it and do this dirty work for him. We need a public health care package strong, strong, so that it can provide for the health needs of our citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u67	Dear Member, you have not spoken of the content on the agenda, so I am giving you 2 reminders and you no longer have a word on this point. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u68	Undoubtedly, this law alone was signed. The SAB party is proposing this law to be very clear. Why? Because we stand for self-employed entrepreneurs, because we know if we want a social state we have to have a strong and strong economy. Now let's move on. The supplementary insurance would, in the manner of withdrawal you proposed, dig a bigger hole in the health treasury than our proposal, so we did not back it up. Our suggestion is that this will be abolished absolutely. Let's absolutely end the supplementary health insurance, but on the other hand, at the same time, we arrange, we provide the money. What will self-employed people in culture get out of this?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u69	Madam Member, I have warned you, we are talking about an amendment. No, I'll also give you a reminder if you don't stick to the contents of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u70	The proposal tabled by Levica does not affect the deadline for the implementation of the content, which means that I can summarise that Levica also agrees with the bill we have on the table. That's a fact. Now, as a replica, I'm going to answer why or what the self-employed will have in culture of it. Today they have to pay the hospital for 30 days on their own. Since the entry into force of the law, it will have to take 20 days for the right third to have less depending on how much they have to pay. If we went on the fourth day, we'd have more. I agree, but it's inappropriate to say that the self-employed will have nothing to do with this marriage. The most will be self-employed and entrepreneurs, craftsmen who have few employees. Why? Because someone with three employees feels more financially if one is hospitalized than one who has a thousand employees and even if 100 people are hospitalized. Once again, 400 million is going to be higher revenue plus 400 minus 49 per yours is still plus 310 and however we turn it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u71	Madam Member, on the basis of Article 77, I am also giving you a reminder because you have not adhered to the contents of the amendment on the agenda. Mr. Kordish, you have no further opportunity to discuss [[advertising from the hall]] At this point. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u72	Dear President, Vice President, let me explain how you're talking about an amendment that only sets the law a few years behind without talking about content. You're just saying "we don't agree to a delay for a few years." And you can't say anything more than that. Or how are you talking about an amendment that's just stalling for a couple of years? Share these warnings totally stupidly, really. How you talk about an amendment without talking about content. You have to tell me why it's a problem to keep it bottled up for so many years. What does that mean? You're in Parliament enough to know that easily. That you can't talk about the expiration date without content. Or how do you imagine the debate that you're only talking about a deadline that goes up for years? Let me answer that, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u73	Your Honor, I know that you are the master of word-making. The Rules of Procedure are clear and I, as Chairman, shall hold the meeting by Rules of Procedure and by spades. [[advertising from the hall]] You don't have a word on this point, you've got two warnings. [[advertising from the hall]] Here, I'll make an exception. Procedurally, Mr. Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u74	Thank you. Procedurally, the presidents should have taken my word if they had taken it away from me on the basis of so many and so many warnings. None of these conditions have been met. However, why I applied for a procedural proposal is as follows. Regardless of the fact that my colleagues in Stanka, Alenka Bratusek, and I are engaged in a substantive assault on this law today, their pro-Cuderal interventions regarding our amendment and their law are perfectly accurate. Why did we table an amendment to delay the enforcement of the law? It's because it was the only asset we had left. The only amendment we could give in an attempt to try to prevent society from entering into force. Thus, the practical content of our amendment is the same as that of the entire law passed by Alenka Bratušek. So purely from a technical point of view, their discussions were perfectly correct and I do not think they should be reminded. By the way, it's a dead end. According to our proposal to abolish supplementary insurance was positive.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. Masha Kociper, but they're running out of time. So it's Jože Horvat and then Marko Bandelli as the proponent. No, you're not the proposer here. You don't have time. The proposaler is Lefty. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished candidates! Congratulations on your good suggestion. We've been backing up for years. Now to the amendment. Once this country is perhaps 50 years old, such an amendment will not even come to the parliamentary bench because it is inconclusive. The submission of the law on 1 March 2030 is unrealistic. Now I'm going to be the one to justify this financially. May I, Mr. Vice President? I will speak solely of the amendment and justify why the implementation of the law is only harmful on 1 March 2030. We talk too much about abstention here. But I will justify financially if you want to, why you need to, why we need to adopt this law as soon as possible. Not as we say the amendment, but as soon as possible – because we are not aware of the cost of presenting. I have been able to learn and read some material from the University Rehabilitation Institute of the Republic of Slovenia Soč, which you all know, and to begin with what is presentationism; I must define this to explain why the law must be in force as soon as possible. Presentism means that an individual comes to work, but at work he is not mentally collected and effective because of illness, severe family or other life - pressure or stress, or because he does not allow himself sufficient time to recover. According to domestic and simplified words, sick people work, it's presentationism. If he's self-employed and doesn't have any accumulation, he has to work -- that's presentationism -- because he doesn't hope to go to hospital. What are the costs of presentationism? Therefore, once again, the law must be applied as soon as possible, not 1. 3. 2030. Contrary to the severe diseases that represent direct health costs, the costs caused by presentationism are disguised and indirect. Let me remind you what three, four years ago we had a very high-quality debate on the Health Committee, the previous Director of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, Mr Suselj, who also spoke about some numbers - it was only about assessing presentation - and it was about a few ten million. This is a major loss in productivity due to presentationism, in particular because it is a health problem with the high prevalence of people pursuing their entire careers and a disease that often does not receive adequate treatment. And now essential: so the costs of presentation are often indirect and often invisible to employers. However, various studies show that the costs of presentation exceed the costs of abstention, I repeat – that the costs of presentation exceed the costs of abstention. In this context, I agree with colleague Alenka Bratušek, who said that we must have a dynamic calculation of the effects of these two laws before us. The English even estimate that the costs of presentation are 1.8 times higher than the costs of abstention. These are not my findings, this was found by the University Rehabilitation Institute of the Republic of Slovenia Soča. However, in a longer way, if you want, I can explain why this law must come into force as soon as possible – because we are not talking at all about presentationism, where, as you can see, studies show, from a cost point of view for health care, it can be significantly worse than abstention. And so there is no way that this unserious amendment of the Left would support me.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Also a representative of the motioner Marko Bandelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u78	Thank you, Vice President. As my proposer, we can say the last or almost the last word in the debate on this law. Those who confirm this law today will listen, literally listen to independent entrepreneurs, craftsmen and, above all, employers in general - and that is the core of it all, that is all. Then there were various debates, about cash registers, health checkbooks, about mank, about everything. And it is also right that these arguments came out, and I will also tell you why – because this way we can move something. We're going to move from this zero point, because obviously to those who run the medical checkout, it fits that it's still in a position like this, in some stand-up position. The simplest thing is to say to the state, give me, I'm still missing, say, 100, 200, 300 million to come out of the budget, so that we can reduce waiting lines. It's a flossule. Flossules. Or that we start here now, because we're going to give the possibility that finally independent entrepreneurs and craftsmen might go to the hospital instead of one month and a half, because we're saying this after a month. Is that what we're condemning here? Do we know what we're talking about here? This amendment, which is now on the table here, is the greatest absurdity, it is literally to have an entire parliament as a fool. Because that's what you put an amendment long enough to say, let's just have a debate that we're going to argue again our flossules, no procedural, no procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u79	Dear Mr. Bandelli, I'm in charge of the session. You'll get it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u80	Now the president's talking, and I'm talking, but I think, you know, as a proponent. I'll say it, you know what's wrong with you, Your Honor, with the Left. Now, if the state had to give 100 million to your culturer, that wouldn't be any problem, we'd sign it right now, we'd give it what it takes. To the diligent craftsmen who employ 70% of the workforce in our country, small, micro-enterprises are this, and they would not allow her to go to the hospital, we say if he breaks down if he is sick, he can't wait a month and a half to go after one month. What are we crazy about here? You are allergic, allergic, allergic to everything that is economy and infrastructure, because from the beginning, three years you have only voted against what is an infrastructure project and an economy. And that's proof that you put this amendment on the table, Vice President. It's a clear picture. We don't care about the economy, we don't care about infrastructure, we don't care about anything, and so we're going to make an amendment to 2030. Too bad you didn't put it in 2050 because it could be even better. Now those words, respected colleague Miha Kordish, were very difficult words, in your very position. Very hard words, very hard words. Some we understood in a way, very clear, some have probably overheard, but such words here in this temple of democracy are not used. No matter who he is, he doesn't use that word. There's nothing right about it. And those words of yours offend just literally every smart man who understands what's going on. And the greatest absurd, respected vice-president, now that they've given the 2030 amendment, you know what the greatest absurd thing is, that just a few years ago the Left Party gave a similar legal basis on the table to the procedure, only they wanted it to benefit just the culturers. Are we aware of this? [[background advertising]] Don't tell me, that's exactly what it was. And that's the problem. You diversify things, it's only one direction and one side that matters to you, but you can't see the wide angle. Because in your world as well as in your world, there are epics, epics, and we talk about it, in addition to everyone else. We do nothing but do what we do today, provide some added security, one additional security for independent entrepreneurs. And not only except for self-employed, small businesses and other companies, but especially for them. Is it solidarity that one independent entrepreneur can't go to a hospital because that's what you're saying? You don't let an independent entrepreneur go to the hospital with this opposition what you're doing here. But apparently, now I'm going to say something, as colleague Alena Bratušek said, you were only able to make one amendment to move the deadline until 2030, because obviously back then, you agree with this law. Obviously. But you have to make a scene, you have to show yourself in a different light, you have to hit the cash register, and as a colleague of Möderndorfer, who has nothing to do with this law, there's no easy connection that there will be no money missing, because they say they expect higher incomes than 13% in terms of employment 3% and given me the total exact numbers, I can read them again. 400 million we're talking about, which is what's gonna come into the cash register. And don't tell me to be a flossule here, please. And you know what the most interesting thing is, only the health insurance of Slovenia, I get one letter from one gentleman, an official letter that came to the National Assembly being said to be public, I have nothing to hide here, Mr Franci Frantar, a representative of the insurance community of the ZZZS elected as a representative of the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions. You know what it says here, after this whole letter he wrote the essence in the end, in the last two sentences, what we've been saying all along for 20 years. Look, it writes, and then ends up "in person, I also believe that a lot of resources could be found somewhere in the existing health system, but" it says itself, the main man "is demanding a renewal of the health system," what we say all the time. [[…]] First thing. “and the establishment of effective control over the use of funds.” And since we will establish effective control over the use of resources here you will see that money will also be sufficient. Because the easiest thing to say is in the budget, let's give more than 200, 300 million and they're working on the same cliché. It doesn't work like that anymore, it can't be done anymore, we need to change the system. Optimize the healthcare system and everything else, if you've already started this conversation that wasn't my conversation. Mainly in the party SAB, and then I will conclude, President because I think that we have already said a lot of things about this today, we have always supported and the farmers, craftsmen and self-employed, because we are also convinced that only and let us understand also you on the extreme left, let us understand at once that only with a successful economy as such, here only in this way, if we have a truly successful economy we can also have a strong social state and we will also provide higher pensions, only in that way. [[…]] If you don't understand it, you're only looking unilaterally, and you're wrong here. In short, without a strong economy, we absolutely cannot have a social state, that is to say, a clear first thing. And with this proposal, I think that the SAB Party has proven Slovenia and everyone that it can talk about how it can talk about the economy, that it is really the only social liberal party that sees through, and that we are getting away from all this thinking that is harmful in a way that you have thought so far. I welcome all those who will support this because this is not a SAB party here, this is all about Slovenia and craftsmanship and entrepreneurship, which will give new dimensions and opportunities, especially for self-employed people who need so much help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Member, as a motioner, you have asked me some questions, but as President, I do not have the business opportunity to answer your questions. That's why Natasa Sukič has a procedural right now, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u82	Respectable. I think that in some way it should be avoided that the applicant is so misleading and contrary to the words of the Members of the Left. Where they were, when we proposed for one-person espions in Levica, not just for the self-employed in culture, that from the fourth day on they were running sick, but from the twentieth day on, when they were long ago healthy, if they had an accidental virus, so it's a total bluff and it's very ugly to deceive. Not to mention that we have warned about what this means for the pensioners, a hundred million-dollar hole in the health treasury, when you proposed to stop the fuse we proposed to cover the hole, if it comes to it, you have also prevented it. And I'm interested in how you dare to twist our words and insult us for the sake of being some extreme, just because I'm warning you're turning a hole into a public health treasury and thereby weakening the public health system and not strengthening it, and it has nothing to do with the stronger economy that you're doing. With this, the economy will not be able to prosper, and so there will be no greater tides, much more. There is something to be said about a number of 400 million, as they thought only 35 million holes would be relevant, so now the relevant institution that is learning to do so will be 84. Please, I will not allow the Member to deceive so much and so viciously attack every opposition voice. Why our amendment? Clearly, so that we can open at least the debate that you want to prevent, because there is no such thing from social dialogue and there is no really public debate on this issue of yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u83	Madam Member, I did not understand what your procedural proposal was, which it was not. I'm warning you, you're not using Business. You, Mr. Kordish, have no more words at this point. Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u84	Thank you, Vice President. I'm pleased to have you keep your word on the management of the sitting. I just wanted to say one sentence to my colleague Sukič. You wanted the fourth day to go to the expense of the state. [[Incomprehensible]] For four days now, you don't support 20 days to go. That's what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u85	Your Honor, Mr. Kordish. You received two warnings and no longer have the option of replica at this point. You don't. You don't. Procedural. I'm warning you, you're not abusing a procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Kordish. Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u86	Thank you, Chairman. Regardless of some formalism of the warnings given, which were not based on anything yours or on Mr Tankot's and were unjustifiably given to me as well as to colleagues from the SAB, with whom we are today in the opposite positions. That's the first thing. The other thing is that these reminders didn't get so high at any point, you didn't take away my word so that you could keep me quiet, you'd have to be any more reminders, and you'd have to say that I'm speechless. None of this happened. Now you're taking away my opportunity to discuss it on your own, and if I have only one minute and a few seconds in my class. My call to the chairman is to allow me a replica for the one minute that I still have the opportunity to discuss in this National Assembly. However, I think that you owe so much correctness to the whole debate not only as a Member of Parliament, in view of the fact that I am trying to take the word completely and unjustifiably, but in my previous procedural intervention, I have explained to you what is the content of our amendment, which has given me a reminder of the phrasing that I am not discussing it, which is not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u87	Dear Member, please see Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure and you have been given a reminder twice. I'm in charge of the Rules of Procedure and nothing else. There is no possibility of any subjective evaluation of how many reminders to give. The clerk is clear. Replica, please, to the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you once again. In 2017, we proposed in Levica that the hospital take into account one-person espams, this means not only to employees in culture, but to those who are employers and employees themselves, but you were against yourself. We have proposed in Levica that it fall out of health-care allowance reductions as well as in the pension coverage of the state budget you were against again. Now you come up with a proposal that will not really benefit espionage, because as for milder diseases than those that are of a more serious nature, 20 days is already a virus, or something like that, and you will not really do any good by simply deceiving that you can build on this basis, but you will extend the waiting types to retirees and reduce their health care from the health basket, because there will be less money in the health treasury. This is what you do to your pensioners to those who until they're deprived, poor, socially weak, you're going to do a bear service and that's what today's speech is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Proposer, please. Yeah, it's procedural. Please don't use the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u90	Thank you, Chairman. I'm not using the Rules of Procedure, but you're obviously reading it a little weird. In the same Rules of Procedure, [[sign for the end of the debate]] to which you refer by withdrawing the word, it is written that if a Member continues not to hold the meetings of the gabarites after 2 reminders have been given, he may be deprived of the word. In my case, that didn't happen. I've received two reminders, that's true, let's leave aside the fact that I think they're unjustifiable and unjustifiable, I've got two reminders, any intentional or actual later violation, not taking the word. Presidents, with these reminders and by denying me the word, you are leading this session against business and you are shutting down my microphone and making it impossible for me to perform my elected parliamentary function, which is why I am here.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u91	Your Honour, if you read the second paragraph of Article 87 of the Rules of Procedure, against the withdrawal of words, you could have objected, and you would have objected, decided by the National Assembly, you did not give it, and you did not change your mind and turn your word. Proposer, Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u92	Thank you. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u93	[[advertising from the hall]] No more, I won't give you any more procedural [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u94	Vice President. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u95	Proposer, Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Vice President. [[…]] Now, I can't get past it again, I remember that, I can't believe that we, this novel, nothing else, I think just as a goal of bringing the position of self-employed or independent entrepreneurs closer to the position of employees, in the exercise of the practical right to hospital absence. [[…]] That's all. Is that a mistake? Is that a mistake? And put in now a million arguments, lame arguments, with a medical cash register here, and we proved to you, exactly, by the numbers that it's not true that you're lying. We've shown you the numbers. [[advertising from the hall]] You don't understand. Normally, because you have your agenda, because you have to go on your agenda and not what it is, but you know, people understand what it is. You're allergic. Allergic and all that is economy and all that is entrepreneurship. That's the biggest problem with you. [[Incomprehensible]] And on the fourth day, you would, in your proposal, discriminate against everyone else, which is something that is not, unacceptable, in any way unacceptable. And for the fourth day, I'd give it to you, and for the 20 days we're here, you're against this bringing down the medical checkout. Well, what lesson of mathematics or economics can we give you, it's no problem to see exactly where the numbers are, because without offense, with sympathy, I said it, nothing else, with sympathy. But let's get this over with, in here, in this light of what's going on here today, that we're only doing good for Slovenia. We're working for that category of people who are trying to mother-in-law, who is working -- who is working -- you know, and will get paid sick leave because he can't work because he doesn't, nothing gets from the state, he doesn't require anything from the state and they don't get anything from the state, what do you understand me on the Left? [[advertising from the hall]] Well, no, you don't seem to understand. All they want is that when they can't work and create and give to the state to protect them when they're sick. That's all. And this is a simple debate of all this. And when is that? After the 20th day of work. So, after one month, after one month. Now if, I can draw for you, too, if you don't understand, and I will conclude with this, President, because I think the end of this debate is here because, indeed, we have told everything we thought and we have nothing left to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Natasha Sukič, first and then Mr. Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u98	Yes, President, I ask that you do not allow such a discriminatory debate to offend and label Members of the Left, [[advertising from the hall]] It's like we're people who don't know math and stuff. My math is, every employee who gets sick has a hospital from day one. Why would a self-employed person have 20 days? [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Then let him have from day one or from day four, but not from day twenty, because this is the complete absurdity that you are going through, complete absurdity and you did not support, until we proposed the fourth day. Now you are deceiving after twenty days when a person is already healthy, your hospital does him no good at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Once again, I would ask that we respect the speaker and not disturb him during his speech. Procedurally, Mr. Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u100	President, you did not allow me to say a procedural word before you took away the possibility of a substantive debate at the meeting. That's why I'm re-enlisting to pro-scural intervention. That is why I did not have an objection to the word taken away, for there never was a word taken away from you. So at no point, the chairman said: “You have Miha Kordiši, a member of two reminders already, you continue to violate some order at the meeting. If that's what you're up to or if it's actually true. That is why I take your word." Please tell me, did this happen at the meeting today? It didn't happen. At just one point, you, as chairman, volunteered to decide that I no longer have the opportunity to report to the debate. Because it is. That's not how it works, chairman. I know we've been suspended from the entire term of office, we've been shut down from the epidemic, and that this term is heading towards the end, that we have an election in three months. Just come on, try for these two, three months to make an effort and at least take this meeting right. It shouldn't be that hard.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u101	Your Honor, Mr Kordish, I gave you a reminder under Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, because you did not speak, you did not discuss the item on the agenda. But before I notice that you received another reminder and whether or not my predecessor interrupted you, I did not follow that. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I find that there is still interest in the debate. I beg your pardon. First, Dr. Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u102	Yes, thank you, Vice President. In fact, this is now the least of the problems in this debate, in addition to not giving a warning to colleague Bandell, while his speech was explicitly offensive to other Members and Members. Until we deal with an extremely harmful unthinkable law. If I quote just what union organizations say. Look, Article 78 is very clear. “The taking away of words can be said.” Go look at the magnetogram, no one thinks, you, when you gave the second warning, didn't say a word. [[…]] Even so, Micah cannot complain because there is no legal basis and it is true that the way you conduct the meeting is inappropriate and in fact you have taken away the Member's word on the basis of a subjective assessment. So I really recommend you cancel or not, because you can't cancel because you didn't say that, but to admit that you made a mistake. [[…]] Now, we're running out of time, so the damage has already been done, even because of the replicas and procedral ones that have evolved because of this, but I think that's the way it is about the law that you said yourself it's reckless and you won't support it, I mean it's not the way. When we talk about such serious matters as turning a 100 million hole into a health treasury and doing mainly harm to people – at the expense of businesses and capital – I do not think that this is how you can lead this debate. So once again, my procedural proposal is that you essentially lift the unspoken sanction of withdrawing words and, of course, you also take this into account in the continuation of the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u103	Dear Member, perhaps my mistake was to remind Mr Kordiš that I had left Mr Kordiš to finish the thought and, if this is a mistake, I apologize to him. Although the Rules of Procedure are also clear, which states that the debaters should only discuss the agenda and there is nothing else to discuss. Joseph Horvath has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Once again, I will speak only and only about the amendment to Article 2 proposed by the left-wing group and wants to replace the text »1. March 2022” with the text “1. March 2030’, so to speak, the validity of the 2030 Act. Perhaps, colleagues and colleagues, anyone who submits a proposal for a bill or an amendment wants to be adopted; this is the only rational one. Hypothetically, if this amendment is adopted and the law with this amendment is adopted, then this means – recently, we have been doing this exercise with the Public Procurement Act – that by 1 March 2030 eight years, we must not open this law, the Labour Relations Act. Is that right? Here. That is why this amendment is pointless and must be rejected because of the parliamentary procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u106	President, I ask you to protect our integrity as candidates for this amendment, because we all know that we have tabled this amendment for two reasons. The first reason is that we have the possibility of even discussing today's meeting, and the second reason is to reject the application of this law if our amendment was adopted, and then the law is fully adopted. This is not a formal situation in order to keep the Labour Relations Act closed or anything like that for the next eight years. And I think it's absolutely right for me to report on a procedural basis to Mr Horvath, because I've had to explain these things procedurally before, what and how the amendment was put into the process at all and why.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u107	Your Honor, this is not a procedural proposal. Mr Horvat discussed the amendment, as set out in the Rules of Procedure. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, 15 minutes after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE HEALTH PROTECTION AND HEALTH PROTECTION LAW, CURRENT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members with Mark Bandelli, the first to be signed. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mark Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u108	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice President! The epidemic has well shaken the functioning of independent debtors, such as entrepreneurs, craftsmen, farmers. Their operation was prevented by both the closure of the country and the referral to the so-called quarantine and not least due to the effects of the virus infection. The remuneration for self-employed persons in the absence of a hospital is arranged differently from for employees. Independent entrepreneurs pay 31 working days of sickness and no one provides them with a salary. It is only 31 days from now that they may require the medical allowance to cover their contributions and compensation. The fact is that many independent debtors cannot pay higher contributions than the minimum laid down, and therefore their compensation in the event of a disease is low. Will such a compensation stimulate a single debtor to give up his daily earnings, which are significantly higher than the hospital allowance? Does any compensation in case of employee illness stimulate the worker in the absence of a hospital? Of course not. At the time of the epidemic, it turned out that many employees and self-employed have silenced risky contacts and asymptomatic infections because they were unable to afford a loss of income due to absence from work. The absence of a worker not only deprives the worker of part of the salary but also the reimbursement of food and transport costs. This part of the income for the vast majority of citizens is not negligible, so it simply does not hold that the law would in any way encourage the absence of a hospital. In doing so, we would like to point out that the hospital’s absence, its duration, is not decided by the employer or by the employer, and not by the independent entrepreneur. Its eligibility and duration of evaluation are exclusively medical, either by treating a doctor in the first phase or by a doctor in the institution. We were committed to the fact that the law would bring 94 million additional burdens to the health treasury. In 2018, one of the parliamentary parties tabled a proposal for a law that reduced the payment of hospital compensation to the employer by 15 days. The Institute assessed the financial implications for 70 million. Today, as the burden of hospital compensation decreases by 10 days, the financial implications are estimated to be as much as 94 million without having reasonable grounds for doing so. It is true that in the meantime the minimum wage is raised, but it also raises contributions and thus makes payments to the health department. An increase in the minimum wage can thus not have such an impact on today's assessment of the financial impact. As well as the reference year for the calculation of the financial implications, we cannot take into account both 2020 and 2021, as the epidemic has led to a significantly higher rate of abstention than in previous years. Given the duration of the average hospital absence, and listen well for 14 days for men and 22 days for women, we can conclude that the financial consequences will be significantly lower than the current projection. In the SAB, we are aware that our health care needs major renovations. We have problems with access to a personal doctor at the primary level, problems with waiting types in specialists, problems with Covid's epidemic, which has pushed all other diseases into a different plan. This law does not solve this and we do not claim to do so, but we claim that we are giving our hand to the economy, inviting foreign investors and thereby increasing the number of jobs, giving our hand to people, especially to independent entrepreneurs, who are returning early to work despite the disease of ensuring that they exist. This certainly does not have a beneficial effect on the health of the individual and ultimately on the health treasury, which will provide long-term compensation for such a worker for which the amount will be significantly higher instead of €100. In the SAB, we believe that the proposed legal solution will be a step on the road that will allow Slovenia to be a state in the next 15 years and more with the longest quality of life.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The draft law has been dealt with by the Health Committee as its mother's working body, and I give the floor to President Anja Bah Žibert to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u110	President, thank you so much for your word. At its 68th emergency meeting, on 20 January of this year, the Health Committee considered the draft law on amendments and additions to the Health and Health Insurance Act submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Mark Bandelli, who also gave a supplementary explanation. He stressed that the aim of the amendment was to enable self-employed workers, including craftsmen and entrepreneurs, to enjoy an equal position in the enjoyment of health insurance rights, namely the absence of hospitals, to relieve the financial burden on the economy and to increase the competitiveness of the domestic economy and to reduce its laxative work. The proposal for a law imposes an amendment to the beginning of the acceptance of sickness or injury compensation payable to the employer from the current 31 days of retention from work for each absence from work for 20 working days. No comments were made by the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service. Representative of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, Mag. Peter Požun stressed that the Commission supported the bill. At a meeting of the Commission, the employers' organisation expressed their joint support for the proposal of the law and the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber would even shorten the period to 15 days. A representative of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance also submitted her position on the bill, which opposed the bill and highlighted the high costs in the explanation. In the debate, some members and members of the Committee objected to supporting the proposal by law. They highlighted the financial aspect in particular. It is not possible to see from the proposed law where the financial resources will be taken, from which items and the assessment of the financial resources also differ greatly between the proposal of the proposer and the assessment of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. Despite some concerns, however, most members of the Committee agreed that, in particular, craftsmen and independent entrepreneurs should be allowed to take care of their health during the absence of a hospital, rather than dealing with the provision of an existing minimum, so it is necessary to solve the difficult problems of independent entrepreneurs and individuals who are self-employed in culture, agriculture and elsewhere. Most economies, craftsmen and agriculture are also affected by such arrangements. After the discussion, the Committee voted on all the articles of the proposal together and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u111	The Government has not announced the time to explain the opinion or to discuss it. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group will be presented by Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u112	If we had at least a good impression at the previous point that there were at least representatives of the Ministry of Labour here, there is no impression at this point. This is the answer of this Minister's Government to these questions and what he actually has to do with them. He does not like to be on television in any way, but he cannot decide whether or not to protect himself or what he has done for the health department. The proposal that we are considering today at this point is in fact identical to the previous law. The debates will be exactly the same, the positions are exactly the same and, of course, the position of the LMŠ is also exactly the same. This law would be supported without a problem, if we could just tell where we'd get 100 million to cover this new obligation that we're imposing on the health treasury bill, then that would be the point. We have absolutely nothing to do with this. Why is that? If we make that decision, then we can do it. The weakness of this law is very simple to take on the existing tasks which the health department has, of course, are services, health care, all hospital care, all specialist examinations and all basic examinations with the family doctor, extension of waiting periods and everything else. [[Incomprehensible]] And Santa Claus is not gonna find the money on this mission. That you really won't see him here it's all empty, they don't care, which means from the budget it won't, but it'll be a minus in the health treasury. These are the facts. Everything else we're trying here to figure out how we're going to do something I don't know what we're going to do is, of course, we're going to reduce the employer's resources and obligations on the basis of fewer health services. Convince me otherwise to convince us otherwise, but with fact, evidence and with the right numbers. In previous discussions, we have heard that we do not use the right numbers. All the numbers are either from the government or from the health department. Unlike others, we did not calculate them ourselves. We're not, we're using reliable numbers. That's right. We're ahead of the election, and it looks like that's the problem. We're not gonna support this in LMŠ.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u114	Mr President, thank you for your word. The current ruling government does not hide its appetites before the Slovenian health system is cut off by the example of the American system. Therefore, at the last point of the last few hours of the debate, we were able to monitor how the ladies and gentlemen on the right of this parliamentary tribunal are laughing. Laugh at them, why? Because before their intentions in the united opposition, the democratic opposition should stand firm in the public health system and defend the right to health as a human right for all people in this country against the tendency to turn health into a business, not to come to a doctor with a health card. But this isn't happening, at least at this and the previous agenda item, no, why not? Because obviously our public health system is not enough to overthrow our current authority with ambition to privatise it, another opposition party is now helping them with this dirty work. The concrete proposal under consideration entails the obligation to cover the absence of the hospital after 20 days of this absence from the employer to the public health treasury. The current regulation states that the public health treasury, financed by all citizens and citizens with contributions, does not assume the obligation to cover the hospital for an absent worker until after 30 days of this absence, which is, of course, basically the right regime. But no, we have a proposal on the table that the public health treasury will take away the poor EUR 100 million every year to relieve employers. In doing so, it does not distinguish between actual craftsmen, small entrepreneurs, espouses and large companies, large capital such as I have already mentioned many times today, large trading chains that in Slovenia alone turn EUR 1 billion in net profit each year. Your burden on your employer or the additional burden on the public health allowance will bring some additional millions of euros each year. Then you are also advocating this proposal to dismantle public health with an argument that you would like to help workers who are reprimanded. You know, it's the workers who will draw even shorter in the case of this marriage than they live today. The only way to provide health care to espaes, singles, real workers would be an opportunity here and now to reduce the coverage of hospital allowances by the public health department to three or four days but only for them, not all. Not for big, very profitable businesses. It is only a service for capital that will be able to show even greater profits, some espionage, workers, reptiles, craftsmen and entrepreneurs to whom you refer, and it will contribute little or no bore. This, however, will have the effect of making a poor health treasury worth 100 million euros each year facing difficult choices, but it is no longer easy. 100 million Euros less in the health treasury means 100 million Euros less than the health interventions that people in this country need. And they need them so much that they stand in line. We have a long waiting period, how do you think we're gonna get rid of these waiting periods with less money in the health register? We will not, because it will be in even greater financial distress, again there will be an opportunity to reduce the basket of rights that people get from a doctor and that they expect from a doctor when they have to visit him. And we know that far away, the biggest users – biologically normal – of the health system, are older. The elderly are the ones who will feel the most about this deficit in the health register because they go to a doctor most often because of medical complications. And as I said in my previous position – I will end up doing the same for the current one. What we are looking at today, and at the initiative of the opposition party in cooperation with the Janez Janša coalition, is not an alternative to the Janshism to which we are committed in the KUL coalition as composers – I hope – of the next government. It's just an alternative form of amber. What we need is more solidarity and more public funding for public health and public health.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u116	Thank you again. The proposal to amend the Health and Health Insurance Act, as discussed at this point, also refers to the previous point of the Labour Relations Act, as it brings the same solution, which is regulated in both laws. On 20 January 2022, we discussed the proposal on the Labour Committee and the Health Committee, which shortens the deduction in which sickness or injury compensation is paid at the burden of the employer, from the current 30 to 20 working days for each absence. However, for all absences from work due to sickness or injury on a calendar year, the total period when the remuneration is paid to the employer shall be reduced from the current 120 to a maximum of 80 working days per year. We are pleased that the proposal of New Slovenia – the Christian Democrats is back in the National Assembly and that it is expected to receive it. Although rejected on 27 November 2018 by today's proposers. All Members and Members received a letter of support from the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Slovenia, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Association of Employers of Slovenia, Association of Trade Employers and Entrepreneurs of Slovenia and others. The law therefore has broad support, as the organisations themselves have repeatedly proposed amendments to the law in order to reduce the period when the payment of the compensation due to the absence of a hospital is due to the own resources of the employer, the self-employed or the farmer. Since Members and Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats believe in cooperation, we do not want to exclude anyone depending on whether they have supported or rejected our proposal in the past. We are pleased, however, that our proposal for skills is being discussed this time with another proposer and will also be supported by this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u118	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament. According to English author Ben Johnson, health is the blessing of the rich and the wealth of the poor. The quote therefore calls for an answer to the question of what is the price of health and in the SAB we believe that each of us will answer that health is priceless. The proposed amendment to the law reduces the period of payment of sick leave compensation to the burden of independent debtors and employers from the current 30 working days to 20. In particular, it puts at the forefront of self-sustaining undertakings, including many holiday workers, craftsmen, farmers, independent entrepreneurs. It is recalled that under the current legislation all necessary taxes and contributions are paid for 30 calendar days, although in case of illness they cannot work and generate income. All too often, therefore, categories of employees are cancelled or reduced to a minimum and started to operate even if they are not healthy. With our solution, the health of self-employed people, who are often neglected because of their precarious existence, is being saved. The epidemic has taught us how much every euro revenue means to people. Many employees and self-employed have silenced risky contacts and asymptomatic infections with Covid because they were unable to afford income losses. The absence of a worker not only deprives the worker of part of the salary but also of the cost of food and transport. This part of the income for the vast majority of citizens is not negligible, so it simply does not hold that the law would in any way encourage medical absence. This law has financial implications. Like a number of laws recently passed in the National Assembly, which burden the state budget unnecessarily for more than 100 million euros. On the other hand, they bring nothing new, not for people, not for the economy and not for health. Unlike these laws, the novel, which reduces the hospital's absence at the burden of both penitentiary workers and employers, will have positive effects both on the economy and on human health. In the SAB, we are aware that our health care needs major renovations. We have problems with access to a personal physician at the primary level, problems with waiting types in specialists, problems with an epidemic that has pushed all other diseases into a different plan. Our medical checkbook carries the burden of inadequate recognition of the hospital stock and up to the unlimited amount of hospital compensation. The working population is older every day, which also increases the number of hospital absences. This law does not solve thousands and some of our health problems, and we do not claim to do so, but we argue that we give our hands to people, especially to independent entrepreneurs, farmers, craftsmen who return to work prematurely, despite illness, due to uncertain existence. In the SAB, we believe that the proposed legal solution will be a step on the road that will allow Slovenia to be the country with the longest quality of life in the next 15 years. Therefore, we believe that each of us will find that, instead of exempting the tax on luxury goods and lowering the burden of capital revenues, which depreciate the state by more than €10 million, the average citizen needs health in particular. The Slovenian proverb therefore says, a healthy man has a thousand desires: but a sick man is but one, and we all know well: [[sign for the end of the debate]] That is why it is our job to help improve people's health and our proposal is a step in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Lenart will be the last to present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! In the debate, we have a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Health and Health Insurance Act, the CFSP-U, submitted by the Group of Members and Members in the Parliamentary procedure of the National Assembly, with the first-signed Mark Bandell. Amendments to the law relate to compensation for salaries for the period of hospital absence from work. The proposal therefore reduces the period of compensation for the disease or injury to be paid to the employer from the current 30 working days to 20 working days for each absence from work. It was currently in force that the employer was obliged to pay compensation for the absence of sick leave for 30 working days, after which the compensation for the absence of a sick leave fell under the burden of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. The proposed amendments to the law are intended to enable self-employed, craftsmen, entrepreneurs to enjoy health insurance rights or to benefit from the right to compensation for the absence of a hospital because, due to a strict order in the existing law, self-employed persons should not benefit from the absence of a hospital but should also go to work by the sick. The following sets out the objectives of decommissioning the financial burden and raising the competitiveness of the domestic economy and the aim of reducing the leeway work. The applicants are of the opinion that due to the high financial burden on hospital benefits, employers should not decide on regular employment or on fixed-term employment. In the view of the employer, the compensation for the absence of sick leave for up to 30 days is often the cause of temporary and short-term employment and contract work, as the burden on employers is too great and they cannot afford or can't afford it. They are also independent entrepreneurs and other independent debtors, craftsmen, farmers, obliged to pay all the necessary taxes and contributions, although they do not have the opportunity to work and generate income during the hospital. Thus, they have to pay their salaries in order not to run out of funds but rather decide not to go to hospital. In the vast majority of such cases it is therefore for entrepreneurs and craftsmen who do not have employees. Long-term such behaviour is not recommended, as it can lead to increasing health problems for workers and self-employed, i.e. independent entrepreneurs, which can also be reflected in a large number of long-term health problems among the working population in the future. The proposed novel reduces the period when the employer pays the remuneration from his own resources in the event of the worker's inability to work because of his illness or injury, which is not related to work, thus eliminating the underlying cause of many problems of Slovenian craftsmen and entrepreneurs. The proposal therefore reduces the period of compensation for illness or injury paid at the expense of the employer from the current 30 working days for each absence of work, but for a maximum of 120 working days per calendar year for 20 working days for each absence from work, but for a maximum of 80 working days per calendar year. When considering the novel, a number of questions arise, whether or not the proposed solution will have positive effects on more jobs in the form of a regular working relationship and whether those who, through the proposal, improve their quality of life and social status will be motivated to return from hospital absence to work as soon as possible. On the other hand, from the point of view of the burden on employers, i.e. economies, due to reduced labour costs and financial burdens, as well as the compensation for the absence of a hospital in the burden of the employer, increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, so that the proposed novelties are difficult to oppose. Therefore, after careful consideration, we expect from the novel some kind of positive and long-term effects also in the form of better public health and, of course, also in the form of good working ability of working Slovenians and Slovenes. And since we are aware in the Slovenian Democratic Party of our efforts to improve the well-being and well-being of all people, we will, of course, support the amendment of the law and the amendment of the Health and Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to a debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am therefore putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Member's Common Left. Anybody want to talk? I see that only Mr. Miha Kordish has applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Madam President. This law is also applied in the same way as was the case with his predecessor at the previous point that we strongly oppose him in Levica. Why? The proposed reduction of the obligation for employers to cover hospital workers will be a huge hole in the public health treasury, which will be known on the balance sheets every year. This means that we have 100 million euros less for shorter waiting periods, for new additional interventions, for human resources reinforcements, in a situation where it shows that in 2022 alone there will already be 150 million. I think that this is a statement of some very unrealistic policy and a parliamentary mirror of the same logic as practiced by the current government of Janez Janša, who wants to cross public health treasury and replace it with various commercial health insurance companies. The current proposal coming from the opposition is doing what the government of Janez Janša wants. Reduced revenues in the health register will bring back the issue of reducing the basket of rights and, of course, the quality of health care that will decline because of the resources, of course, will be less. We should do the opposite. What's anti-Janshiz in health? This is a very substantive policy that is diametrically opposite to what we have been looking at over the last two years, it is more solidarity between more public funding for more prosperity for people than the use of the health system as a haven for various privileged people. We should end supplementary health insurance, we should have public cash protection with a so-called budget protector, that health financing is not a hostage of such a financial or economic crisis, but that human health is treated as a human right, which may be guaranteed by the State unconditionally regardless of the economic indicators and the level of profit among capitalists and so on. These are appropriate measures to address problems in our public health system, but not to bring it closer to the so-called American model, where everything is privatised, where everything is very expensive and so far there will be much more self-payment with us, if public services are even more financially supported and even less funded. Even now it looks like the case of dental care, which is the most sophisticated one of the most privatised parts of the Slovenian health system like this. The basic review costs between €30 and more, a white seal between €55 and €90, cleaning the toothstone €40. Are these relatively basic interventions? I don't know if we really want to see an alternative to Janshism's theme, that more people will have to pay extra for a doctor because they won't have access to a public doctor because there won't be any money for interventions. This is a scenario written by the fallout of the poor 100 million euro from the public health treasury at the expense of employers' burden. And we can't even put everyone in the same basket when we're talking after the hospital. Here workers are formally caught in the form of a self-employed entrepreneur. After 20, 30 days of public funding to these people, nothing really helps. They need hospital coverage immediately and can only be provided by the public health treasury because they formally do not have an employer and these people will have virtually nothing to do with this proposal. It would be necessary to provide the hospital for example after the third or fourth day of their absence, on the other hand, we have large capital conglomerates who will further profit from this relief and are already showing high profits. I think that it is our job in the opposition to make an alternative to Janshism in the health field, not to do the dirty work for it as it is at today's meeting and with this proposal where Alenka Bratušek, with the support of Janša's coalition, helps to define the public health treasury.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Marco Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u124	As a proponent. Thank you, President. I'm not going to be long because we've already said everything at the previous point, but, such words, such words by my colleague Kordiša make me sad. It grieves everyone to work one day in life, one day to work in life, to really work under the master, in the company, but it has not yet had this privilege and this honour, because it is also an honor, to work under the master, or to work for himself, or to be on your own, without having finished school and came here directly to Parliament, with 3,000 euros of wages, to think otherwise, to think like a ceramicsman who has to do his job to earn, to earn bread and not ask the country, but today, in this light here, to most of us who see that he supports this thing because he understands the problems today, that you can earn one euro, not to get it. That's a big difference. And this man, if he's sick, he'll be able to work. He'll be able to wait 45 days for him to even come to the hospital. Nothing more than here we do to go after 30 days, which you believe, - believe me - 99% of people go to work sick too because they have to earn their own bread. Here, that's what we're talking about here today. About independent entrepreneurs, about self-employed people, about farmers who work as employees as employees, about small businesses that are, about other employers, so that we can help. Well, what's the connection here that we're here with the medical checkout so we've shown you exactly what the numbers are. [[Incomprehensible]] The misleading of the office with 94 million and all the figures showed, however, colleagues and colleagues from LMŠ, their ministers, made the calculation, in 2018, strongly lower, which is exactly what Nova Slovenija presented at the time, with real numbers. That's what we're doing here today. We will help those who fight for their own bread so that they can go if they are sick, if they have any injury, to have the right to a hospital leave a little earlier. That's all. And stop fooling around with these services, and I don't know what kind of dental care and I don't know who it is. What does all this have to do with anything? Here we only help people who serve their own bread and help in this regard. If you don't understand it, I'm sorry, but it's a shame, it's a shame, it's a shame. Well, I'll say one more thing here, with all due respect and sympathy, I'll say so, with admiration, to the entrepreneur, Mr. Czech Republic [[?]] Who only came into the kind of SD, what are you, one day I'm going to ask him what he thinks of this proposal, too, right? He's got 400 employees. He's got 400 employees, and he knows exactly what that means, but let's leave it at that, because here, the main cause of this marriage here is self-employed and so on, that's the main thing that is, we're going to help these people. Those who serve their own bread, which the state gives them nothing else — I repeat — demand nothing but that they have the right to go to the hospital after a certain period of time. Do you know of any? After one month. Because 20 working days, it's a month. A bad month. And I can tell you, personally, how many independent entrepreneurs I know that they don't have one day, one day they don't have a hospital, one day because they can't afford it because it's been too long. And that sick woman who gets paid minimally, and that's not the amount. So that's why the numbers from the institution that you're throwing out from the Left, through, isn't it, it's purely misleading, they're not real numbers. And our numbers are. Now, “loh”, we have our numbers. They can write. Let them prove to me, on what basic basis, Comrade Vatovec, on what basis they calculated 94 million, they did not answer me, but fine, I was present, on the committee. [[Incomprehensible]] So don't tell me to say that. And I do. [[?]] It's exactly what they can do. And not just that, not just what's missing, I'm not just saying what's missing, how much we're gonna be, how much the financial result is going to be. But we've shown you exactly how far it's gonna go in there. So, more, more will come in than the one that will go out. The higher values, the stronger they'll be. But you don't understand, you don't deserve to understand, that's the problem. Not that you don't understand, you understand very well, but it's not worth going on in this style of yours, because you want or don't want to, so many people fall for this deception, you nod, you nod. That's it. Real, math is math, they're numbers, that's all. That's all. And it's going to have to be rationalized, you're going to have to optimize the health register, and then it's going to be different, but not just waiting for the money. That's enough to do on the subject. I am sure it will probably be such a sign here that it can accelerate the desire and willfulness of the institution itself to start looking at it differently. Do you understand? In order for doctors to make a different decision because what I told you in the first place is that it is not the employer who decides when a worker will go to the hospital, he is not the sole entrepreneur when he decides when to go, it is the doctors who decide. Doctors. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Before that, we have a replica of Mrs Sukič's procedural proposal regarding the course of the meeting and the use of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u126	With regard to, yes, respectfully, I ask that you somehow prevent this discriminatory treatment of the very Left, which is not the only one against this proposal at all, but have gone right to the left, and to prevent insinuation as if we had never worked a day. I come from self-employed people in culture, and I know exactly after 20 days what they're proposing, benefits me absolutely nothing, because we should still work sick not to avoid colds, etc., sick ones, because it wouldn't help me much, well.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u127	Yes, Mrs. Sukič, this is a substantive debate [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u128	So, please, don't let him fool himself in such an ugly way that he doesn't process the members of the Left and get them out, because we're not the only ones against it today, and we've made it very clear what's going on here, and optimising the health treasury isn't that you're turning a 100 million-dollar hole into it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u129	Mrs Sukič, I will interrupt you at this point because this was not a procedural proposal. I have specifically warned you about the use of the Rules of Procedure or the course of the session, but if you are the substantively diametrically opposed to colleague Bandellia, the debate is the right place to actually object to it. I do not have and will not be from this position where I intervened in the content of individual debates in this way, so that as long as everything is within the agenda and the point we are considering, I will not interfere with the debate. Replo wanted Mr. Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Because I was misinterpreted and at just a few different points. I will begin with the work of Mr Bandelli's controversy, where he wants to defend this law, which will turn a 100 million hole into a medical cash register, so that he gets himself into discrediting me personally if you have never worked in Levica, you don't even know what it's like. Hey, union centres representing working people in this country have all come together with a very strong opinion against such a coup against a public health treasury, so this is not just my position, this is the position of the official representatives of the working class in this country that needs the most solidarity public health. Rich people don't need it. They're already going to a doctor with a bank card, not a medical card. That's the first thing. Another thing about numbers and deceiving. We operate with the numbers he served with the Department of Health Insurance, i.e. the public health department. That instance in this country, the only instance in this country that actually conducts a financial review of how they run in our health system and which is the only one who can really access that data. Your numbers, you pulled them out of your pocket somewhere. If you are wondering how the medical checkbook came to these numbers, I think it would be very easy if you knocked on their door and asked them if you could even align such suggestions with them. When the Left in the National Assembly brought an end to the supplementary health insurance, we did not do this a little later and a little bit on the bluff. We also worked it hand in hand with the Department of Health Care to make one that drinks water and not one that boils holes. Third thing. The case of a ceramic worker with whom you served an espiancian will help such a man to fight little or no if he will still have to work three weeks without a hospital would help him with our hospital action for disciplines that would cover such a man and all the other workers on the espionage already after the third day of the hospital absence, but not then you were against it. Otherwise, there is another thing that annoys me in these treatments today that you have never been allowed to prove that we are going to sit down, let's make a deal, we can find some compromise and make it so that you will go straight to the meeting to look for support on the right side of Parliament and now, together with the Janez Janša coalition, you are turning the hole into a public health treasury. It's not anti-Janshizem. It's just an alternative Yanshizem.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Before I gave the floor, he wanted the word "proposer." Mr. Bandelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u132	Thank you, Vice President. No reason to answer such provocations, because it's totally unrelated, because a man who doesn't even know when he's saying he's out of touch, but here today we're going to be saving for the good of Slovenia, for the people. Once so much for the craftsmen, for those who work, for the self-employed. What's the connection here left, right center or I don't know what. Here we are talking purely about solving one situation that can happen to certain self-employed espions, which is farmers of espionage, businesses as such. He's probably smokin' here at the end of the line. To save them one situation if they get such a case that they get sick or that's the only thing that gets hurt. That's it, that's it. I don't know if it's hard to understand or what it is, but I know it's hard for you not everything it is. The rich man said Mr. Kordish to the ceramicsman. He's rich. He's a rich guy who works alone. [[talking to each other]] [[Incomprehensible]] There are things here that grieve a man who fights and takes a mother here to get to something clever and we don't say accusations without federal what it is. President, let him be reminded of such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I've already said substantively in the debate, I won't interfere. It is extremely wrong, however, for Members to account among themselves in a way that you convert words and say something that someone else has not said in their debate. Now you have challenged Mr Bandell in your implementation to Mr Kordiš that, in the context of a procedural proposal which I will, of course, allow him to explain in what sense you have converted his debate, because this is also - I will explain why this procedural proposal - can be understood and appropriate in the context of the management and conduct of the sitting. Mr. Kordish, please. You have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u134	Thank you, Madam President, for your correctness. Yes, I wanted to apply to you who are conducting this session to protect my integrity. I didn't say at any point that the ceramicsman was rich. I was discussing it three minutes ago. Mr Bandelli, it's really rejected that you're reading some of these things to me, but I said that rich people are already going to a doctor with a bank card not with a medical card and that this espoused ceramic is the man who needs the hospital's public coverage not after three weeks, but after three days. But what we're proposing in Levica was you against it. I understand that you have a set of arguments defending your marriage just please don't tell me things that I've never actually said the opposite. Defend your proposal and your arguments with lies. Look, this doesn't work, it goes to the right of the hall, not the middle or the left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u135	Yes, thank you very much. My colleague Kordish, just a response to your procedural proposal; protecting the integrity of each Member is my duty, of course, but not in the context of substantive proceedings in the debate. So, for that reason, I didn't read anything to my colleague Bandell, but I did give you a procedural proposal that you formulated as you did, and I am now answering it. Also a procedural proposal, Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u136	Yes, I didn't want to get involved, but I have to say that tears come into my eyes when Mr Miha Kordish asks the president to protect his integrity from insults. Really. Ambassador Kordish, we know exactly who started this discussion today and in what way, with the Yanchists and so on, and I, the President, am making a procedural proposal; Members of the Left are already using parliamentary questions at both points, even when they are running out of time to respond to the debate. We are the proponents here, we have much more time than you do, that's true, and if you don't know how to schedule time, then don't abuse procedural requirements. First everything, they spend all the time, recklessly, and then at the entire previous point with procedural proposals, they propose a slightity and then respond substantively, including the Head of Parliament. And I'm waiting here as an idiot to be on my way to signing up for the debate, and I'm talking about it when it's my turn. So, please give them a heads-up. I know you have limited options here, but these are mere misuses of procedural issues. Let us give in the time we have under the Rules of Procedure, deal with arguments, no offense. What I thought was stupid about the laws you proposed, and I didn't insult any of them. Let's face it, not in this way and with procedural suggestions and also with me, Miha Kordiš, it seems offensive to say rich people go to a doctor with a bank card, not a medical card. So what, let's get the rich killed or driven out or what do we do now? And why would you want to walk around with a bank card? Why not, given that they are paying for medical bills, do they also have medical cards? This debate went completely beyond the level, abuse procedurally Let's face the reasoned opinions in the debate and tell ourselves what anyone thinks. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u137	Yes, thank you very much, Mrs. Kociper, for your procedural proposal. In fact, hand to heart, you have also very broadly justified your procedural proposal, but I did not interrupt you, just as I did not interrupt Mr Kordiš, but the fact is that before that I interrupted Mrs Sukič in her implementation, because it was not really a procedural proposal. The fact is that Members have - we have Members - 3 minutes to explain our procedural proposal. If there is no obvious abuse, I do not interrupt the Member, but when I assess that this is an obvious abuse, of course I interrupt such a procedural proposal and I also take the floor. So I'm gonna stick to that in the future. If I saw it right, I have another motion for procedure. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u138	Yes, I have to respond with a procedural proposal and I think it would also make sense to end these procedural proposals, given that these, these two laws that we are considering now in the last few hours are important and also point to some serious conceptual problems, or from the perspectives of public health. I think there have been no serious infringements of the Rules of Procedure, in terms of asking these procedural questions, which we have seen now. I think that every time there was a reaction to the extremely patronizing and, of course, also the misleading and false responses of the proposer, which, of course, has this advantage, that he has a little more time than the proposer, but I think that the procedural proposal, in terms of also keeping the meeting and maintaining the order at the meeting, is something that can help to avoid such failures. Now, well, maybe not in this debate, there's not going to be any close-ups, but I don't think there's going to be any speeches. [[?]] On this side of those who oppose this law, it is said in the opinions and debates of the Left, the LMŠ and the SD, that there were no such patronizing and disputing statements as we have heard from the applicant's mouth, so that I propose to all of you, but of course the President, that we also try to maintain a certain measure, and yes, I will use this word of integrity on both sides, and that we do not fall into this lowest possible, in these lowest ways of communication and these are incitements and lies. I think that we do not deserve this and that it is right, I agree that we are facing these different positions in the debate. I have been waiting for her for quite some time now, and I will also bear witness to these procedurals to my turn, but I think we need to calm down a little bit about politeness, but I think we can exchange different views with all zeal, which are ideal programming or otherwise.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I agree with you. It is true that any judgment given or a judgment of value by the proposer in the context of his debate is not necessarily an insult, but this is a subjective perception of the claims made by the proposer during today, so I am really stressing once again that I will not be involved in the debates of Members until, of course, they are at the level of some acceptable political culture without offense and so on. Haven't we finished with the procedurals yet? Mrs Sukič, do you still have a procedural proposal regarding the use of the Rules of Procedure and the course of the session? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u140	Your Honor, I appreciate you trying to protect our integrity, but I would ask that this body of integrity, however, goes with things as if someone is demeaning you if you have no idea because you haven't done a single day. I mean, it's like I would say to Member Bandell that he has no idea what it's like to be self-employed in culture, because he hasn't had a day of self-employed in culture, and I've been self-employed in culture for years, and I know exactly that after 20 days of sick, I'm sorry, the benefits of being so long after 30, and after three days would be very useful to me. This is what we are talking about today, and it is not right to be so demeaning and hurtful as to be some kind of analphabetes that we can't count. I've finished, graduated, and electrotechnics, and I can count damn well. So that mathematics was one of our primary industries in the study, so, please don't protect our integrity when you see it, it's not a substantive intrusion, but when you see it begin, you have no idea, you don't have a single day in Levica, I mean, it's labels of disrespect and stereotypes and beating prejudices against the left party. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sukich. Now, if we are perfectly correct, Mr Bandelli did not say the sentence “You have not done a single day in Levica”. But what he has said, but I have already said, is, in my opinion, my understanding of the proposaler's debate is his valuable judgment and it is not an insult if he tells someone that he has no idea about some thing. That's his personal position. I really don't see any worse, terrible insults and violations of the Member's integrity here. Secondly, if the incorrect statements of a Member or Members from their debate are cited, then I also gave Mr Kordiš the opportunity to explain his position in the context of the procedural proposal and to make a procedural proposal to me in person, which we have already clarified. So, if you'll excuse me, we'll proceed with the debate. The next one has a word and then we open a series of applications, Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Comrade Bandelli, I've worked in a factory, I've worked as a self-employed translator, and then I went to university, and so on. So I fully understand the situation of someone who is serving bread with his own work and who has to pay for the contributions and matters. Now, when I was translating for some agency as espa, they didn't care if I did, I don't know if I had the flu, if I had any other stuff, and in two or three days I can't do it. And this proposal of yours does not solve this, because for such situations the first three, four, five, six, seven days, when you have some normal illness that you can do without some major problems, it is crucial, and when you lose the opportunity to work in those situations, then the problem for your existence is. So, unfortunately, this proposal of yours does not solve these situations, and it is just some smoke screen you take as an excuse to pull it off. Not only do we have personal experience, we also talk to people, so we have repeatedly proposed that we go out of the cash flow, to those who are truly self-employed, who are craftsmen, I don't know, one mechanic who breaks his hand can't wait 20 days to start paying his medical bills and so on. That is why we have introduced these laws, so such laws would be righteous. However, we have never introduced laws to which the six trade unions' headquarters would respond and oppose them. On the contrary, economic chambers, MCs and similar things responded. So that's the point of this marriage. Either I give businesses, employers, or we give something for people. This law gives people nothing, but it gives them capital. That's why I think you're attacking just us. My colleague, Židan and colleague Möderndorfer, were much sharper today in my opinion than Miha Kordiš. Then ask yourself why.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word of this? First Masha Kociper, behind her, Mrs. Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I am also really a little sad about where this debate went, but I also understand your colleagues, when someone is already in the position of the Janša Coalition and the extension of the Janša Coalition, just because you took advantage of your constitutional right and proposed some law and then it continues, then negative feelings start and become more sensitive. And then when Micah Kordish, who always starts, asks to protect his integrity, it's really funny. I hope that no one will challenge us in this house, as a SAB, the constitutional right to file a law and try to implement our programme in this National Assembly. We can only implement it if we convince enough Members, otherwise our boss is crying here, throwing himself against the ground, making laws with billions of consequences, if they do not have enough support, such laws cannot be passed. And despite the fact that some of us are even in the Kul together, I hope that we all understand that we have different programs and different views and that maybe that's why we're as interesting as Kul. Some advocate more of this part, others. They write union headquarters to you, never to us, but it's not interesting. But we are written by craftsmen, entrepreneurs, and the Chamber of Commerce begs, give us something to do. This is an important question for them. That the issue is important, it already shows that a similar law was introduced by Nova Slovenije a long time ago. That this issue is important shows that you have made a similar law in Levica that would have consequences, it is said, where the health department would start paying after 4 days. But you think about the number of abuses that would happen if after four days you didn't pay yourself as an employer. Don't say they're all rotten, but I'm saying there's always a possibility of abuse. And who you have proposed for 4 days to define from 4 days further the health treasury, today you scream here that our proposal is harmful and incredible, and we propose what is in some public, commercially, among craftsmen, entrepreneurs for some time a great desire to at least reduce from 30 working days to 20, which means actually one month. And if you'd listened to the numbers, you'd see that there can't be the effects that she said over her finger the last time she had an impact, I'd say, principal, because there's an average of one hospital with us, and we've looked at the data for 14 days for men and 22 days for women, so we're not even on average eating. And I understand that someone in this Chamber disagrees with this proposal. How many laws are there when we do not agree with them? At least we are silent. But, as it is said, this marriage and any marriage can be adopted only if it receives a large enough majority. And I wouldn't be mad at us now, at the SAB, if we obviously have support for this marriage. And it really bothers me when you say we meant it. If we knew a little about our president, Alenka Bratusek, we would know that she's very thorough and very stubborn when it comes to money and never operate on numbers just like that. These are not simple calculations, but believe me, we've picked up some phones and dialed some numbers and that our estimate of about 35 million is very real. However, the evaluation given by the Director of the Health Institute is if, when it will, it will be, and it will be, such growth and so on, without taking into account the higher revenues in these cases if it will be when it will be. And that's how you hope to get at us, because we're defending what we're always defending, and I think it's unfair. We have always spoken, for the good, functioning, social state that we are seeking and well aware of, in this National Assembly, myself, personally, all colleagues, always for public health, for public education, we break up, but listen, it will not be if the economy and the real sector do not put money into this social state and this thin balance, how to ensure enough revenue and how to ensure that this system works, it is the art of politics. And if you're only defending one side and you think that money is growing on a tree and you can just share it, but you don't care what those who put it in there get, and what matters to them, that doesn't apply to us. It is important to us that the economy is good, that as many people as possible are successful, that as many people as possible can work, that there are as few people as possible for social assistance, that there are as few people as possible who are unemployed. We do not believe that it is the task of the state to anyone who does not want to work or who does not just get the job he wants to do 800 euros. No, we think that a happy and happy person is the one who the state gives him the conditions that he can work, that he can create, that he can pay himself. And if this sector is writing to us, you union headquarters, and this sector, please, propose this law, and in all the money that has been distributed this year, I did not know in ten years that there is so much money in this country. I didn't know. And with all the money that we can't propose a single law that might have 35 million consequences if, maybe, because it's in line with our beliefs and our program, then I don't know, well. Then I really don't know. On the other hand, you've been making laws with 400 million consequences and on our question, yes, where you're going to get it, right, Levi, if we're talking now, we're going to take it out of the budget. Yeah, okay, right. Today you have put forward ten times that we did not want to support that what would run out of health bills is spent from the budget. I didn't want to, no, because we want to know where you're getting this money from. Because it's not an answer, we'll take it from the budget. The question is, what are we going to do to fill the budget? That's why we didn't accept your supplementary insurance because you didn't have the answer to where we're going to hide the manca and your answer was, ah from the budget. We could stand here and say, what about your lowering the minimum wage just like that and 200 euros, and so on. Who's asking the employers? Now, finally, someone is proposing something that helps them, at least that's what they say, even in these days when there are so many sick people. And it would, by the way, this law is a normal law. If we have a government together, if we prove that the consequences are really what you say they will, and we claim they will not, we can change this law. However, when laws are adopted in this National Assembly that sign long-term contracts for EUR 400, 500, 600 million, it is difficult for you to change that once the contract has been signed. So let's give this theatricality a little bit less. Say it right, you're not up for it, tell me why you're not up for it. We are not against the rich, we have taken, if anyone is rich in this country, we are happy if someone pays a little more taxes and we are sad, because people can only, because they deserve well, with a bank card to go to a doctor, not with a health card. So, I thank all those who will support this law and I am sure that we have not just drilled any holes into the health register, and in case of an accident, I assure you that the Sab as responsible party will react immediately and in that case correct the law, but everyone says that it will not happen and I believe them.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Kordish, I will take your word if you do not now apply the procedural proposal to what it is intended to do. Do you have a procedural proposal for me to conduct the meeting? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u146	President, I have not thought of anything other than a procedural proposal to speak about, but unfortunately I have been pushed back to this meeting in a position to ask for the protection of integrity. It's been hours and hours. I haven't insulted anyone in all this time, and I haven't even insulted anyone as bad a name as you do me, and I haven't told anyone Yanshist to say anything like that here about Yanshism, and I haven't considered anyone to be a Yanshist. Please, at least for basic accuracy, at least in relation, if not for arguments and data.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I'm going to make a point here because it wasn't really a procedural proposal, and I remind you that next time I'm going to give you a warning or I'm not going to give you a word for such a procedural proposal. We continue the debate. Mrs. Alenka Bratusek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u148	Thank you. I am signing everything Mrs Kociper said and thank you for presenting the position of our Group of Members in such an exact manner why we have prepared this proposal why we have signed under this proposal. Because in the SAB Party, we know and we stand up and we always will. I stress that we will always, always, stand up for self-employed people, entrepreneurs and tradesmen, so only with a strong economy will we be able to provide a social state, which we are very much in favour of. We filed a marriage last March, March of last year. When we're hearing today that it's some pre-elections and I don't know what kind of action March of last year. To deal with it today was not our wish. You wanted us to be able to deal with the next law concerning students and we also signed it and we agreed to talk about this law today. It's hard, really hard to hear when you talk about the financial consequences and you don't hear the arguments we're about to give you. I'll tell you one more time when Nova Slovenija introduced the law. Yes, then the period would have been reduced to 15 days our proposal was made by our Government for 20 days, two of our ministers – the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health – both came from the LMŠ or at the proposal of the LMŠ found that the financial consequences of that law were 70 million. Today, we're supposed to believe anyone that in 20 days, the financial result is 94 million. It is less favourable, however, to have greater financial effects, this is not the sum of the honourable lady, and gentlemen are not counting. This was also the basis for us when we were preparing financial calculations. Yeah, we're allowing the possibility that for 5, 10 million more, because we're talking about 100 million women talking about several billion in the health department, but not three times as many as you are deceiving anyone who isn't. Our words are based on concrete answers. Now, I add, if we include 13% of the increase in remuneration, because higher salaries will be 3% more employees because this is forecast. 15 percent more patients than last year, and 15 percent of people will decide to stay longer in the hospital, and then maybe we can get a little 10 million more, but who knows what will happen if it does. Now I'm going to tell you again what happens to medical bills if the salaries are actually 13% higher and if employment is actually 3% higher. In 2019 contributions were collected by 2 billion 478 million both employers and employees. 13% higher wages than this amount I take the base year 2019, I assume that the base of 2021 is already higher because it was already this year or last year higher wages, but we are on that more conservative figure from 2019. Two billion 478 13 percent of the salary is for beer and writes 322 million higher contributions. 322 million. If employment is 3% higher, this means an additional 74 million euros on the revenue side. When we add this up, the real 322 plus 74 is up to 396 million. I've rounded it to 400, if you'll excuse me. 400 million euros in higher contributions and you're saying that now I'm going to give a higher number than 35 I'm going to say 45 million to blow up the health treasury. This is a case-by-case misappropriation. There will be no medical checkout, no more or no less at risk than it already has. Where are all those health care fighters when we're talking about a pay raise that's gonna put 10 times more pressure on the health department? We all said it was right for the wages to be raised to doctors for all those working in health care. No one at the time talked about the dispersal of the medical register. With long-term care we have all warned indeed it is and this is a much bigger trap for the health treasury than what you have on your desk today. As my colleague has already said before me, we all have the right to propose what we think is right and we are not about people living on minimum wages. We are for people with their jobs to earn a decent living. That's what we want. That's what we want and what we want. We will not ensure by this law that entrepreneurs will fly to Slovenia and open up businesses and jobs without really saying that we never said that. But it is true that this law will make it easier for craftsmen and self - employed workers to breathe and if you want to or do not want to hear it. An entrepreneur, a craftsman who has three employees, if one of them is in hospital or you imagine it's a third of the workforce. And here you are shouting, all day long I've been hearing about some chains of commerce that are supposed to make a billion profits. If in a large company where there are a thousand employees, 100 people go to hospital, this is a big problem for the company, but significantly smaller than for an entrepreneur who loses a third of the workforce. We are also discussing the abolition of supplementary health insurance, we are going to talk, and I believe that we will also realize it, but in a sustainable way, in a way that we do not disperse the health treasury. Today, I have come to realize that we all understand that the health department is important and that it needs to be maintained. We all have a feeling that money doesn't grow on a tree, that it has to be earned, so that we can then give it in accordance with the laws, in accordance with the constitution, the one they most need. And by no means do we agree that this proposal is as dangerous as we have heard today. Moreover, this proposal will have very positive effects. And secondly, I will now tell those who write on behalf of the workers. The worker will not be further rewarded or further injured. The worker is on the same page. Yeah, a worker doesn't lose anything. If that's how the unions fight for the workers. That maybe there are hospital too long in Slovenia, that is not our problem or our problem, we just can't solve it. No politics, no employers decide or decide who goes to the hospital and how long it takes to go to the hospital. Here, too, the healthcare profession will have to see whether Slovenia is on average or we give up or not. It has already been said that women are on average at 22 days and men at 14 days. I probably don't even have the right to judge whether it's too much or too little. But I have the right to say that some self-employed people don't hope to go to hospital when they're sick, because they have to earn those 30 days. But if we go to your suggestion, my fellow Members, that we go immediately, after four days of doing so, there would be a few hundred million financial consequences. That wouldn't be a problem. We are probably all the same in Slovenia, and we cannot give each other something or something. At least that's how we understand it, that we Slovenians are equal before the Constitution and before the law. So that no pensioner will have less, less, or less, because of this marriage. But it's true that we have a hard job ahead of us, and it's going to be a health check, not because of this law, but because of a lot of other things, we need to take a closer look and I'm going to say roll things over. If you think that by writing that if the health department is in the minus, everything covers the budget we solve a lot, you're wrong. The budget is not unlimited either. However, it is possible to find a security guard to say how much or how much the budget can or must cover. Not everything they want. Let's just open up the store and let's just say, they're gonna be like, "I don't know what they're doing." In short, it is not small without a bottom, it is money that needs to be earned first, so that we can then, as provided for by the Constitution and the laws, also share it for the social state. And the SAB is the advocate of this and the SAB will always be the advocate of Slovenia's need for a strong economy if we want a social state.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. Madam Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In fact, the debate continues from the second point because there are two laws that are sort of twins. Once again, I commend my colleagues and colleagues from PS SAB. We failed in autumn 2018 with this solution. I want and expect majority rationality and I want you to succeed. Because if you succeed, it will work for all of us. We're gonna make it to Slovenia. This is not about who the proposer is now, it is about who will support this solution. Of course, in New Slovenia we will not support the amendment to Article 2 of this Act, this bill, which, like the Labour Relations Act, states that the law should be enforced with effect from 1 March 2030. I've already told you the procedural reasons. Can you imagine if this amendment had been adopted? Thus, on 1 March 2030, and in order for such a law to be passed, this National Assembly should not open the Health and Health Insurance Act for 8 years. Can you imagine what a blockade that is? Eight-year-old blockage. Now, if the colleagues wanted to table an amendment, the colleagues from the Left, and the colleague, then at least some rational date of application would be proposed. We must be aware that in Slovenia we have a problem with productivity when we talk about the economy and this is the topic, that is, if we want to finance the social state first and want it, we all have this purpose, then we must have strong resources. Where do we get these resources? First of all, in the economy. Somewhere else, but first in the economy. I agree with the colleague's statement, and I repeat it several times myself. Unfortunately, money doesn't grow on a tree, at least not yet. It needs to be created in the work process, of course, even in the public sector. And we have problems, we have terrible problems with competitiveness. If we just look at what the business environment is like in Slovenia. We cannot be satisfied with this, we cannot, but we can improve it. If we look at the Swiss Institute and its research, the Institute for Management Development. On its 2021 world competitiveness scale, Slovenia was ranked 40th among the 64th countries, according to last year. Can we be satisfied with that, ladies and gentlemen? We can't be. Because I believe and know, I firmly believe that we have exceptional people who have outstanding intellectual, entrepreneurial, cultural and I do not know what else. If we create and this is probably the task of a policy to create an environment where all these potentials, entrepreneurial, intellectual, artistic, cultural and so on, are released and when we put it all together, then we will be the best in Europe and in a broader sense. We've got a lot of productivity issues. We are lagging behind about 19, almost 20%, on the EU average, and if we do not raise productivity, there is no higher wages to be expected. So let's do something small with these two laws proposed by the SAB Group and in autumn 2018 New Slovenia. Something small, I hope that we will also make enough, in this irrational pre-election time, to make a rational decision on the Income Act. This is ours, I speak for New Slovenia, the key, are two key projects, higher net wages by amending the Income Act and, of course, debirocratisation, the first step we have already taken with the Debirocratisation Act. We are aware, in New Slovenia, that the success of each company is made by people, not robots, people who can be properly rewarded. We will do everything we can to attract people to Slovenia to attract highly qualified people, including from abroad, while retaining local knowledge and local talents. Many companies strongly point out that high-level personnel cannot be properly rewarded. When we walk in the field, owners, business directors, family companies, an extremely valuable form of business or, if you want, family farms, because these two laws also target farmers, don't forget. Well, everyone says their biggest capital is people and their team, coworkers. It's true, it's true. If your machine breaks down in the manufacturing process, you go or buy or take a new one for leasing. A man, a development engineer or any other profile, you can't. And, now, if I focus on self-employed people. We have a lot of s.p.s that just don't have enough accumulation to go carefree on a two-month hospital or one month. They do not and I agree that here colleagues and colleagues from the SAB are a little more cautious than we would have been in autumn 2018 and have set this limit for 20 days. And if you don't have accumulation with your work, you're living your own work, you're kicking ass, you're just not going to the hospital, you're doing sick, okay? I talked about this earlier about the importance of negative results, the negative effects of presentationism. And I represented very briefly the Uri Soča study. These aren't some kind of paper, but they're top-of-the-line professional analysis, and I repeat, in this study, Uri Soča, I quote English people who say that presentationism is 1.8 times more expensive than abstention. And I believe that if the representatives of the ZZZ were here, at least some of the costs of presentation could be presented to us. So we're simply not going to support this amendment. The world won't collapse. Some of the calculations we've listened to before, some 200 and 400 million, don't joke. The key is that this rate, the number of employees, the economic growth to keep this up, every employee pays for health and taxes and pensions. Everyone. In this sense, but this is not a topic now, it is also very important, and demographic issues are also very important. And I pray very much that, because I see that today there is some kind of affection for the Slovenian economy, it is not just employers, because it is so sometimes understood, these ugly capitalists, who would be swept away by someone with bayonets into the sea, and so forth, please, not by such rhetoric, because we are also being listened to by other potential investors, domestic and foreign. And then what provocations immediately stimulate negative reactions by investors. So let's not be afraid of a strong economy, and the economy is either employers and employees, or if you want, employees and employers. And that is why, I repeat, both of these laws will be supported, not by the amendment that we are currently considering. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? If not, I give the final word to the proposer, Mr Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u152	Thank you, President. Article 2 of our Constitution states that we are a social state and we must remain a social state, in any case. I think that's the basis we're with here and today. But how can we be a social state if we don't make a strong economy in our country? Without a strong social economy, we cannot be a social state, and we must all be aware of that and I think we are also aware of that. So that we have always supported and will always support entrepreneurs, craftsmen, self-employed, of course, because you are a successful, literally very successful economy and private sector key, absolutely crucial for a strong social state and higher pensions, that is all that is the goal and that was the goal of today's presentation of our law. With this, I, the President, will conclude this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u153	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate as well. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, which is 15 minutes after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to move on to 4. PERIOD OF THE DAY – THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE CONSULTATION REFERENCE ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE PROPOSAL FOR THE RATIFICATION OF THE COOPERATION OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE ORGANISATION FOR COOPERATION IN COMMON DEPARTMENT ON THE MANAGEMENT OF THE BOXER PROGRAMME ON THE LAND OF THE OCCAR. The proposal for a consultative referendum was tabled by a group of 8 Members and Members with first-signed Miho Kordiš. I hereby give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Kordiš, to present a supplementary explanation of the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u154	Thank you, Madam President. In today's session, I'm obviously booked for a pay phone. In Levica, we are proposing a consultation referendum on the purchase of Boxer 8x8 Armoured Armours in the amount of €400 million. It is the execution of one of the items recorded in Tonin’s infamous law 780 million for weapons, for which we also wanted to address people together in Levica at that time. At that time, we called for an ex-legislative referendum, a binding referendum. Only in a week, in winter cold and at the height of the epidemic, a total of 30,000 citizens and citizens contributed to the referendum. Therefore, the authorities decided to ban the referendum for a short period of time. And that's not why we're not going to give up in Levica. The agreement to join the OCCAR organization is the basis for the purchase of the 8x8 Boxer armor already mentioned. We do not need these armoured forces to defend our country in any way, and in all the last Slovenia there is no military threat. This kind of war technique is designed for the operation of Slovenian boys and girls in uniform, including 10,000 kilometers away from the borders of our country on missions for the purposes of the NATO Pact, especially for the needs of our greatest allies under this Nato Pact, that is the US. We do not want the Slovenian Army to be trained and equipped to oppress someone else. We want the army, if we have it, to stay at home, to help people here when they find themselves in situations such as these and other natural disasters. We don't need armor for that. Even if the country were actually under military threat, let me reiterate that this is not the case. We could not help them in any way because they are inadequate to operate in Slovenia. What threatens and puts their safety at stake in this country is all different from the classic military crisis. The well-fed public health system is the one that protects people's health, and it is not doing well because it is undernourished, it needs to be strengthened, it needs to be invested in by public funds. These funds will be less than €400 million if the money flows into foreign military industrial complexes for these armoured personnel, for these weapons that we do not need. Young people in particular in this country are at risk of housing crisis, we are running out of at least 10,000 public non-profit apartments. They will be much harder to reach even if the government is replaced if the budget is easier for the EUR 400 million that will go for weapons. And so on, I could mention further, hold back on the issue of building a home for older citizens. In short, any social vital subsystem we have in this country is in crisis or just before it. And in this, the social sub-systems that we collect as a country should also invest as a priority, not that the requirements of the Alliance are then preferred to the needs of our own people. They also know how to say this, and that is why we say in Levica that a referendum on the subject of this purchase should be announced before the purchase of armored persons. All the surveys, all the definitions, all the information that we have in Levica as well as the rest of the opposition members, and finally also in the Government of Janez Janša, say one thing and the same thing, three-quarters of the people in this country do not want us to throw their money for weapons that we do not need, but they want to go to health care in education, in development, in building houses, in older people's homes and so on, because there are more of these areas that actually concern the welfare of people than the well-being of foreign military industrial complexes, and that is not in any way the current authorities want to hear. If I wanted to hear about EUR 780 million for weapons, we would have gone to the polls and people would have said what they wanted, so we must continue to insist in Levica on the current Ocker agreement with which the armoured men are bought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The proposal for an advisory referendum was addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy as its mother's working body and I give the floor to the president of the Committee, Ms Monica Gregorčič, to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. At its 35th emergency meeting on 24 January 2022, the Foreign Policy Committee considered the proposal of the Left Group to call for an advisory referendum on the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the ratification of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Organisation for Participation in Joint Arms on the implementation of the Boxer programme by Oker. In the introductory supplementary explanation, proponent Miha Kordiš questioned in particular the level of funds for the purchase of Boxer 8x7. He felt that the Republic of Slovenia should devote these funds to other departments, for example social or health care, that the Slovenian Armed Forces did not need to ensure the national safety of such combat vehicles, because only these are intended for guidance within the framework of the NATO Union and that such armoured personnel do not correspond to our infrastructure, so that our country should plan more adequately the concept of defence capacity development and that citizens should be given a consultation referendum on the issue of purchasing armoured personnel. Following the response, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence stressed that the Government does not support the proposal for a consultation referendum because the proposed referendum issue is unclear and misleading and contrary to the rule of law, since the entire estimated value of the project in the approved investment documentation amounts to EUR 412 million with VAT and that the intention is to purchase 45 armoured persons, which is likely to lower the final price. Since all the strategic documents in the area of defence and security provide for the equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces with these war vehicles, this is to be understood as a fundamental platform for the construction of a medium battalion fighting group, which represents the core of the capacity and modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which is designed to provide national defence and to meet our country's international obligations and because, despite the proposal for the transparency of the purchase of 8x8 combat vehicles, all are carried out in accordance with the prescribed procedures and all documents are accessible to the public. The Head of the Legislative and Legal Service also pointed out that the referendum issues must be clear, that they must relate to the content of the bill, since the question is unclear that it is contrary to the principles of the rule of law and the essence of the referendum as forms of direct decision-making of citizens. In the discussion of the Coalition Members, it was stressed that the equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces was the goal of all governments, irrespective of the political definition, that ensuring security within the framework of the NATO Alliance was more economical and that the neutrality of the State also meant a significantly higher amount to ensure that each global conflict was also a potential threat to our country and that security constituted one of the key development components that ensured the well-being of the whole of society and that national security was the basis for the development and well-being of society, and in particular it could be understood as one of the fundamental human rights. In the debate, the opposition Members drew attention to the need to explain the various sums mentioned for the purchase of armoured personnel and to the question of the choice of equipment with precisely defined suppliers within a short period of time. The Secretary of State then further explained that ratification would only constitute the legal basis for purchasing armoured personnel, that the security dynamics and the environment in Europe are changing, thus requiring different, security responses from members of the NATO Union. The decision to purchase these armoured vehicles has been considered as a new tactical study has been prepared to ensure that each Member State is responsible for its own safety under the North Atlantic Treaty and it is therefore necessary to work towards the modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces. [[sign for the end of the debate]] After the discussion, the Committee decided on the appropriateness of the proposal for an advisory referendum. There were 16 members and members of the committee present. The proposed opinion was voted against by one member of the Committee and 11 members were voted against. The Committee therefore did not adopt its opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u157	Thank you very much. In order to present my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence, Mr. Uroš Lampret, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u158	Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the proposed call for a consultative referendum on the adoption of the draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Organisation for Cooperation in Joint Arms on the management of the Boxer programme by the OCCAR does not support, both for procedural and substantive reasons, as it considers that the referendum issue has been created in a vague and misleading manner and the purpose of the referendum is contrary to national defence interests and to the international obligations of the Republic of Slovenia, also runs counter to the fundamental strategic documents of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of defence and security. Furthermore, the referendum could have a negative impact on the construction of the necessary capacity of the Slovenian Armed Forces to remedy the insufficient situation found when assessing its readiness. Key points that opinion. [[Incomprehensible]] The proposal for a decision shall be vague and misleading in the proposed consultation referendum. The vague issue is contrary to the rule of law, as well as to the essence of the referendum itself, as forms of direct citizens' decision-making, to which voters must be thoroughly aware of the content of the issue on which they vote. The question arises that the bill provides for the purchase of 45 wheel vehicles 8x8 Boxer, worth at least EUR 412 million in total, which is not true and therefore does not comply with the principle of clarity and certainty, as the proposal does not regulate it. The Act provides in Article 1 for the ratification of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Organisation for Cooperation before the Common Arms of the OCCAR, on the management of the Boxer programme by the OCCAR, establishing the legal basis for the implementation of the Boxer programme for the Republic of Slovenia by the OCCAR and defining the conditions for their participation in the programme. As has already been explained several times, the conclusion of an agreement for the Republic of Slovenia does not have direct financial implications, as it establishes the legal basis for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia with the OCCAR in the Boxer programme. The direct financial implications will result from the conclusion of implementing acts for the purchase of Boxer vehicles, namely the Memorandum of Understanding for Boxer, the Programme Decisions and the main contracts with the supplier, the German company ARTEC. In addition to the fact that the proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement, as has already been said, does not provide for the purchase of 45 vehicles of a total value of at least EUR 412 million, the information on the value of the project on the acquisition of war vehicles, as outlined by the applicant in the proposal for a referendum question and throughout the explanation, is inaccurate and misleading. The estimated value of the project in the approved investment documentation, including purchase costs of 33. vehicles Boxer, appropriate logistical support, spare parts, maintenance and tools, system integration, testing, training, documentation, acquisition, ammunition kits, simulators, development participation and administrative costs, is EUR 412 million. More than once, it has been explained that our intention is to buy 45 Boxer and 53 Boxer vehicles. [[?]] as provided for in the investment documentation, the supply is expected to be relatively lower when received. Despite all the explanations, the applicant cites misleading data of 45 vehicles for EUR 412 million. With regard to the applicant's repeated allegations of suspicious price increases of the project, it should be clarified that the values presented by the applicant in the initiative are not comparable as they relate to different time periods, different number of vehicles, different goods or services included in the individual value, tax values or no tax. I reiterate that the final value of individual vehicles will only be known after coordination with OCAR and other countries and that the amounts cited by the applicant are misleading. The referendum would be contrary to the fundamental strategic documents of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of defence and security. The referendum could also have a negative impact on the construction of the necessary capacity of the Slovenian army to remedy the insufficient situation found when assessing its readiness. The long-term and medium-term development guidance and planning documents in the field of defence, notably the medium-term defence programme of the Republic of Slovenia 2018 – 2023 and the Resolution on the overall long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2025, none of which was adopted under the mandate of this Government, provide for the equipping of the Slovenian Army with combat vehicles 8x8 as a fundamental platform for the construction of the Central Battalion fighting group of the Slovenian Armed Forces. In line with the provisions of the White Paper adopted at the beginning of 2020 on the defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the medium battalion fighting group represents the core of the capacity and modernisation of the Slovenian army. Its key building blocks are wheeled armoured vehicles with appropriate firepower and ballistic and anti-mine protection of the crew. Taking into account the principle of a single force, the Central Battalion Combat Group is intended to ensure national defence and to fulfil the international obligations of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to the applicant's findings that the investment in the medium-term battalion fighting group is not justified because the Republic of Slovenia is not militarily threatened and the investment is not intended to protect the country, but the Republic of Slovenia follows the NATO dictatorship or the most powerful NATO member states and their military industry in pursuit of imperialist objectives, and that the government does not therefore exercise any public interest, we explain that the defence of the country is one of the key functions of the State, which is linked to ensuring its existence and sovereignty, as well as to working to preserve peace and security for all its inhabitants. The decision to join the Alliance and thus to participate in the collective defence system was based on a political decision to further support the referendum on the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO. 66.08% of voters participating in the referendum voted for the entry. Which certainly contributed to the legitimacy of the political decision. All decisions on the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to NATO were taken by the National Assembly, which also ratified the North Atlantic Treaty. The decision to comply with the obligations assumed by this Treaty therefore constitutes only a realisation by the Republic of Slovenia of the commitments made and is only a consequence of the preliminary decisions of the National Assembly on the entry into or accession to the North Atlantic Treaty. By accession to the North Atlantic Treaty, the Republic of Slovenia has expressed its consent to be legally bound by the Treaty. For its ratification it has also become part of the internal legal system of the Republic of Slovenia. This did not give rise to the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia to provide our defence with primary, own resources. By developing credible national defence capacities, the Republic of Slovenia will therefore contribute to the fulfilment of the international commitments undertaken under the Alliance under the North Atlantic Treaty. The key building block for the defence of the country in terms of its defence capacity and capacity is the readiness, equipment and human resources of the Slovenian army, which must be such that it is able at any moment to deter the attack in peace, to defend the independence and integrity of the State and to participate in the collective defence system. In view of the above, it is not relevant that the applicant submits that the Republic of Slovenia is not currently at military risk. With regard to the proposaler's findings on the non-transparent purchase of Boxer vehicles and suspicious price increases, the Government first explains that the equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces with these vehicles as a basic platform for the construction of the Slovenian Armed Forces Central Battalion Group is planned in all long-term and medium-term developmental and defence-related documents. Dear Members, the Slovenian Army is one of the fundamental building blocks of the independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia. During the financial crisis, the Slovenian army had a disproportionate share in stabilising public finances, and it is therefore high time to make more than 15 years of planned investment, for the Slovenian Army will only be able to carry out its tasks if its further development is ensured, and for which one of the key assumptions is its modernisation and appropriate equipment. In view of the above, I propose that you do not support the initiatives for the proposed referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, he gets the word "magic." Meira Hot will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u160	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have yet another initiative of the consultative referendum in connection with the purchase of arms for the arms of the Slovenian Armed Forces, proposed by the Levica Group. This time, the National Assembly will decide on an initiative for an advisory referendum on the ratification of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Organisation for Cooperation in Joint Arms, through which Slovenia would buy 53 armoured Boxer vehicles for more than EUR 400 million. The initiative for the conclusion of the agreement was prepared by the Ministry of Defence in 2018 under the leadership of then Minister Andreja Katič. The Government and the Defence Committee, which also supported the project, also took note of the progress of the process of purchasing 8x8 bicycle armors for the construction of a medium battalion battle group. Even if we consider the approach to the Multinational Boxer Programme to be in principle appropriate, since the ratification of the agreement does not entail any costs from the proposed 2018 proposal to today, the proposed ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the situation has changed considerably, we voted against the ratification of the agreement by the Social Democrats of last December at the regular meeting of the National Assembly. [[Incomprehensible]] We voted against ratification in particular because the Ministry of Defence had an offer in 2018 on the basis of which a proposal for an agreement and an open possibility of negotiation could further reduce the purchase price of 8x8 armoured personnel. Now the Ministry of Defence does not have such an offer. We were against this ratification because the estimated value of one vehicle between 2018 and today has increased significantly. In 2018, prices of one vehicle were estimated at EUR 4.8 million without VAT, and for a vehicle in 2025 it is expected to cost around EUR 6.2 million without VAT. We also know from past arms purchases that the final price of arms purchases is increasing from the original estimates. In no case was the price of weapons lower than originally estimated, so we are concerned that the final price of purchasing armored vehicles will be even higher 8x8 and that we will pay even more than the forecast 412 million euros. We are also concerned about the dynamics of the production and supply of armoured personnel. The armor is expected to be delivered late. For example, Lithuania had already ordered 88 boxers from publicly available information in 2016. It took over the first two vehicles only in 2019 and is expected to deliver the remaining armoured weapons in this year. That suggests a three-year supply delay. It is also important to take into account the fact that in 2019 you also commissioned boxers from Austria and the United Kingdom. Therefore, if Slovenia orders boxers for a year, we cannot count on taking them over until the end of 2026, when the investment period laid down by the Slovenian Army Investment Act expires for the period 2021 and 2026. Although we voted against the ratification of an agreement allowing the purchase of armoured vehicles for these reasons, we cannot support the call for an advisory referendum on the ratification of that agreement. The consultation referendum for the Government and the National Assembly is not binding, even if the majority of voters vote against the purchase of armoured vehicles 8x8, the ruling coalition will be able to adopt the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement and thus enable the purchase of planned Boxers. We also do not think it appropriate to call a non-binding consultation referendum entirely at the end of the term of office of the National Assembly, when we are practically just ahead of the next regular elections to Parliament. In the April 24th elections, voters will also be able to decide whether to support a large-scale arms purchase policy advocated by the political parties of the current ruling coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u162	Thank you very much. With the adoption of the Law on the ratification of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the OCCAR Joint Arms Cooperation Organisation, on the implementation of the Boxer programme by the OCCAR, the ruling policy plans to spend 412 million euros on the 45 Boxer Armours. Large investments in arms would only be justified if Slovenia were militarily threatened in the medium term and if it were actually intended to defend the country. However, the investment in the medium-term battalion fighting group represented by these vehicles does not meet any of these conditions. Slovenia is surrounded by partner countries, all members of the European Union, Austria is neutral and the rest are like Slovenia, members of NATO. In the foreseeable future, the threat of a military attack is virtually excluded and the need to deter it is minimal. Representatives of the Government also agree that the state is not under military threat. In order to deter other threats in which much is said, the medium-term battalion fighting group is useless; the fight against terrorism is the task of the police. Even if they're engaged, military units don't use heavy weapons. The use of military weapons to protect the border is, at least for the time being, prohibited. Cyber security is provided mainly by civil institutions such as banks, network operators and critical infrastructure managers and police. Thus, classical military units are completely useless for this purpose. The ruling policy of purchasing armoured personnel for the establishment of a medium battalion fighting group and other current arms purchases does not work because Slovenia would be militarily threatened, but after the NATO Pact dictatorship. This dictatorship was publicly very well seen on 19 March 2020, a week after Slovenia declared the new coronavirus epidemic, when Secretary-General Nato Pakta Jen Stoltenberg stated that despite the crisis and despite the severe consequences that the COVID-19 epidemic will leave on the economy, Member States are expected to honour their commitments to achieve 2% of GDP military expenditure. Pressures following the increase in military expenditure and arms purchases by then bureaucracy are carried out on the basis of the interests of the strongest states of the pact and their military industry. The acquisition of weapons and the construction of new military capabilities, in Slovenia, is the construction of two medium-sized battalion fighting groups, strengthening the capacity of Member States to participate in imperialist expedition corps with which the largest Member States in the countries of the world periphery exercise their interest by military force. At the same time, arms purchases satisfy the commercial motives of military-industrial complexes of these same giants. The latter, with constant wars and armed conflicts of lower intensity, take care to realize the profits of the first. By outsourcing the increasing number of tasks carried out by the military in the past, from food supply and maintenance of military facilities, to the protection of transport convoys to private corporations and their increasing involvement in the so-called post-war reconstruction, this military industrial complex has expanded. Not only do these expeditions serve not only to ensure the access of imperialist forces to foreign markets at the level of trade at the cost of the labour force and so forth, but they are increasingly intended to maintain the profitability of the arms industry at the expense of continued war-torn in the countries of the global periphery, also known as developing countries or third worlds. Slovenia does not establish a mid-Batalonian warship for its own defence, but, after the dictatorship, the Pact for Action in the Wars, which under the auspices of NATO in the countries of the world periphery, promotes the geopolitical interests of the largest Member States of the NATO Pact. The fact. With the purchase of 45 Boxer shells for 412 million euros, the ruling policy does not serve the interests of the people and residents of this country. With this purchase of services to the profitable manufacturer of these armoured personnel and imperialist interests, the nobles in whose service he intends to send Slovenian soldiers and soldiers in these vehicles in the future. For huge sums of money that we could build, not one, but four infectory clinics, thousands of public non-profit apartments, dozens of homes for older citizens, half of the second indent of Divac - Koper or this money invested in a significant development of science and related jobs, solarisation of roofs of public-owned buildings, strengthening public passenger transport and so on. These investments would address the real threats of the people and people of this country, such as climate change, poor air quality, job shortages, brain drains and others. In fact, 412 million euros could probably be used in 412 million ways that are significantly more useful to residents and residents than buying 45 shells for auxiliary soap operas, for NATO's expedition corps, which then participates in interventions and occupations, such as the recent occupation of Afghanistan by cooperation in which Slovenia has in fact gained nothing. The idea of buying military bicycles 8x8 came first from Cerar's government, which thus wanted to meet the goals of NATO 2017's capacity for Slovenia, which were adopted at the meeting on 29 June 2017 by the Pact's Defence Ministers. Also, all previous “NATO commitments” to which the ruling policy often refers, including those goals, the financial contributions needed to do so and so on, have never been the subject of any public debate. Their acceptance has passed through all democratic representative institutions and state procedures. This was the first time that the purchase of 8x8 armor was mentioned in the 2018 and 2019 budget memorandum, where the cost of purchasing 56 vehicles was estimated at EUR 207 million and EUR 3.3 million per vehicle. Then, in an interview with the Slovenian Army in January 2018, the State Secretary Milos Bizjak assessed the purchase of 56 armoured men for 250 million euros and 4.46 million euros per vehicle. On 26 August 2018, the then Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, at that time in the last weeks of running business before the oath of the new Government of Marjan Sarca, adopted and sent to the State Parliamentary Committee for Foreign Policy an initiative to conclude an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Organization of the OCCAR on the management of the Boxer programme, where the price of armoured personnel was estimated at EUR 306 million for only 45 vehicles and EUR 6.38 Raspberries per vehicle. At that time, the government attached a letter to the initiative for prompt consideration so that the purchase could be sealed before the arrival of the new government. The Committee on Foreign Policy considered the initiative on the same day as the meeting of the National Assembly at which the new mandate-holder was confirmed. The Levica Group requested the withdrawal of this item on the agenda, which would be contrary to the coalition agreement of the then coalition, which envisaged that Slovenia would continue to consult NATO on the construction of capacity targets, including the two battalion groups, taking into account the availability of new investment funds and the common priorities identified and the current staffing capacities of the country. The new government, which then came into existence, stopped buying Boxer armor. Supposedly because the purchase was based on an outdated tactical study, and in fact because a bunch of irregularities were to be detected on the project, the price of EUR 306 million, which the Government informed the Committee on Foreign Policy, was not real. Through the mechanisms of access to information of a public nature, the Left Group has obtained information that two documents with the OCCAR Association Initiative have been prepared for decision-making in the Government. The documents were identical in this, in everything except for the price of 48 vehicles. In the document adopted by the Government, the price was EUR 306 million. The document, which was not adopted, listed the price of EUR 356 million. At the end of 2018, press articles reported on the new arms affair and the price of €390 million, which was still not final. 27. Ten. 2021 The government then adopted Janez Janša and sent an initiative to the National Assembly to conclude an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the OCCAR organisation on the management of the Boxer programme by the OCCAR. In this initiative, there are only 45 more vehicles for the dizzying 412 million euros. As always, this time the purchase tried to be as untransparent and as far away from the public’s eyes as possible. The initiative was given to the National Assembly on 27 October and on 2 November the Ministry of Defence requested an extension of the agenda of the 95th regular meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy. In their request, the acquisition of medium wheeled armoured vehicles 8x8 is crucial for the creation of the most important capacity of the Slovenian Armed Forces, whose construction has been delayed for a longer period of time, that is, the medium battalion fighting groups, as key capacities for its further development and to improve the state of readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The procedure for ratification and validity of the Agreement would therefore need to be implemented by the end of 2021, for which the first pre-condition is to consider the initiative as soon as possible at the Foreign Policy Committee meeting. This interpretation did not contain any causal link which would make it really necessary to address these initiatives. The delay in buying a longer period of time cannot now be a necessary reason for this agreement to be signed and ratified by the end of 2021. Even if we agree that the state should really spend nearly half a billion public money, there is no reason why this agreement must be ratified as soon as possible or before the end of the year and dealt with outside normal business terms. Notwithstanding the fact that the agenda for the 95th regular meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy was then extended by this item of the agenda, one day before the meeting of the Committee, the initiative was adopted on 9 November, adopted on 2 December by the Government and sent to the National Assembly a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the organisation of the OCCAR. Only 14 days after its adoption at the Government will it be discussed at the plenary session of the National Assembly and decided at the vote. The government, which proposes the purchase of 45 armoured men for 412 million euros, does not have any legitimacy. The law to seal this purchase is adopted with extreme urgency less than half a year before the state-run elections, the senseless spending of hundreds of millions of euros on arms purchases, by the way, is opposed to more than three quarters of the population. That is why the government and the ruling coalition have already prevented a consultative referendum on a special law whereby the government intends to spend 780 million on arms purchases under the Nato Pact. They then banned the legislative referendum on this law and, on top of that, prevented a referendum on a resolution on a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035, which intends to increase the expenditure on pointless arms purchases in the coming decade and a half. Therefore, in Levica, we are once again proposing that voters and voters be allowed to declare themselves to spend hundreds of millions of Euros on weapons, so that the ruling policy does not exercise any public interest and is merely in favour of foreign power centres and military industrial complexes. The purchase of 45. Armors for industrial complexes. The purchase of 45 armoured men for 412 million should be decided by the people at a referendum to be held together with the elections to the National Assembly or decided by the next government, which after the elections will gain more legitimacy than the current government. In PS Levica, of course, we will support the proposal for a consultation referendum on the adoption of the draft law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the organisation of OCAR. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u163	Mr Jožef Horvat next has the floor to present the position of the PS NSI. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, distinguished Mr Secretary of State, co-workers, dear colleagues and colleagues. In opening, I would like to point out that the NSI Group will strongly reject the proposal to call for an advisory referendum on the adoption of the draft law on the ratification of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the OCAR Joint Arms Cooperation Organisation on the implementation of the Boxer programme by OCAR. In fact, participation in OCAR enables the most transparent acquisition of military technology. OCAR is not a producer but an organisation for joint arms cooperation. There's a lot of reasons to say no, and I don't have enough time to count it all. The referendum question alone is unclear and misleading. The matter of decision-making at the proposed consultation referendum is identified as misleading, as it is said. The unclear issue is contrary to the rule of law. This is discussed, as we all know in Article 2 of our Constitution, as well as in the essence of the referendum itself, as forms of direct citizens' decision-making in which voters must be thoroughly aware of the content of the issue on which they vote. Of course, there is also our Legislative Legal Service on these ambiguities or the wrong referendum issue with a misleading referendum issue. For a year, more than that, we've been listening to a lot of deceptions about the Slovenian Army Investment Act, if it's about the acquisition of weapons and only weapons, of course, it's not true. It is not true that if the proponents cruised a little across Slovenia, we would see that many, among other things, wars have been renovating for decades, as the Slovenian army and not only the Slovenian army, each soldier needs a decent apartment. And one more thing. With the law on ratification of the agreement, the government will only implement what should have been implemented for at least a decade. Ladies and gentlemen, on 23 March 2003, the Slovenian people decided by 2/3 of the majority that the Republic of Slovenia would become a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or NATO. On the same day, which is also important for today's content, 90% of those who attended the appointed referendum on March 2003 decided that the Republic of Slovenia would become a member of the European Union on the same day. In this context, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that, as members of the European Union, we have and are committed to a common foreign and security policy. We also wrote this in the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia seven years ago. On the basis of the so-called referendum, this sets two frameworks. The first framework, as has been said, is the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union and this framework represents our fundamental value and political framework. And the second framework, which is clearly described in the foreign policy declaration. The second framework represents our membership in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, and this framework represents our fundamental security framework. We have, ladies and gentlemen, a historical memory as well. On 15 May 1990, on the day before the oath of the first democratic Demos government, the commander of the Republic's Territorial Defence Headquarters, Ivan Hočevar, issued an order to disarm the territorial defence. Interestingly, he did not sign the order himself, as he preferred to authorize Deputy Drago Ozbolt to do so. In these times, he has shown one of the most shameful behaviours since he has been stalling and deceiving the Presidency at all times. On 17 May, then, two days after that, on 17 May 1990, the celebration of the warehouses of territorial defence began after Slovenia. At that time, the Presidency of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia, although they knew at least a day earlier what was going on, was reacting with a delay. It was not until 18 May that they banned the handover of weapons in the territorial defence district headquarters. Fortunately, many of the Command Command Command have ignored and the territorial defense has not been lost to God. A self-sustaining path could be if you stayed completely naked and bare much harder, but in all things it is not impossible to forget that it is very easy to be smart back when you already know what and how it happened. So, allow me to join the National Defence Headquarters Commander Ivan Hočevar on 15 May 1990 to order that territorial defence be disarmed. In fact, we have something similar in January 2022, which is not an order, but the proposers of this consultative referendum want and continue with the attempts to decommission the Slovenian Army. Fortunately, in doing so, I am proving this loneliness by voting on Monday's Foreign Policy Committee. Another but very important reason why New Slovenia will not support this proposal for a consultation referendum is that we do not trust the proposal. Why not? Because one of their members said at the 30th anniversary of Slovenian independence, I quote from the media: “You have been fucked. The secession of Slovenia from Yugoslavia was capitalist against the revolution." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u166	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, our answer to the proposed referendum question is, of course, clear. We do not agree with the Republic of Slovenia buying 45 Boxer armoured vehicles worth at least EUR 412 million in total. We do not agree, because we are convinced that it is essential for the procurement of any defence security equipment that it takes place in a transparent and rational manner. In Boxers, however, we have strong doubts about transparency even more about rationality. According to the initially used amounts, the price of an individual vehicle has risen from €3.7 million to €9.16 million. At this time, what was almost threefold the appeal? Did the Government of any other country listen to its citizens pour so much sand into their eyes? Already at the beginning of the negotiations, misdiagnosed vehicles are now almost three times more expensive and we strongly doubt that no one has taken advantage or seen the opportunity to benefit. We also disagree with the purchase because we are convinced that the equipment of the military is of exceptional importance, but it must, in the first place, be suitable for the battle challenges on the domestic soil, only for the sake of fighting around the world. For example, a specific example of this would be the purchase of a fire helicopter, which is indispensable in effectively replacing fires in the territory of Slovenia. All Slovenian citizens would benefit from the contributions immediately. We also disagree with the purchase because it is appropriate to provide it double as a small country when purchasing such equipment, if not all multilateral utility. As an example, it should be a helicopter again. In the SAB we are convinced that the Slovenian Army should be equipped with helicopters, which could also be used to rescue from hard-to-reach mountain areas or be available for the urgent transport of critical patients. We believe that such equipment would mean much more efficient use of budgetary resources than the purchase of illogically large numbers of combat vehicles in the desert, when we have no sandstone in the country, rather than deserts for training with Boxers. Despite the fact that we share our views with the applicant on the issue of purchasing under the conditions currently on the table, we cannot agree with the proposal for a consultation referendum. Why? The biggest problem is that, after the advisory referendum they are proposing, there is no commitment to absolutely nothing. People would say what they thought and what they wanted, but the government would whistle. In fact, in her poor two years of rule, she proved that she did not stop her. It was not the Constitutional Court which warned the European Union, nor the constitutional principle of the division of power, but the consultative referendum. We cannot therefore support the proposal in the SAB party, but the fact that the largest consultation referendum awaits us on 24 April, when we can very clearly ask people whether Slovenia remains a financially independent country with a functioning legal state, with independent media and prosperity for all, or whether they want to continue on the path that this Government has outlined along the path of enormous indebtedness and headless spending with the shadow of transparency, along the path where the government of repression is on the road, because it is desirable and permissible only to deal with all those who dare to think otherwise, along the way where human rights are too often trampled and where the borders between the branches of government are completely erased. The only answers that people will give in the elections will have to be respected by the government, including the current government, because the elections are not consultative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group specifically. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u168	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Let's act like there's gonna be a hundred years of peace and get ready for war tomorrow. This is the legendary thought of Titus, the thought of the great model of the Left, but with his actions such as today's proposal for an advisory referendum, he is acting in exactly the opposite, unconsistent way. We are thus faced with another manoeuvre to obstruct the legislative process by proposing a referendum on the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Organisation for Participation in Joint Arms, the management of Boxer by the OCCAR. This is already the third referendum proposal of the Left Group, on the subject of military documents. In addition, they proposed a consultative referendum on the amendment of the Income Law, where the same applicants are already considering withdrawing because they have learned their strategic error. People would have made a rational decision on such a misleading campaign and would not have refused to raise their own wages. In the parliamentary group, in particular, we do not want the defence area to be the hostage of the daily policy. In Levica you like to talk about the fact that Slovenia is not militarily threatened and that therefore investments in arms are not justified. Instead, you are populistally proposing a shift of financial resources to health, social, environmental projects. Indeed, all of this, of course, is urgently needed, but the dilemma of butter or cannons is a false dilemma. Have you ever heard of strategic planning and preventive action? Or would hospitals be built only when needed and only then purchased rescue vehicles and firefighting equipment? It would be right to finally understand that the defence capacity is the foundation of our country's sovereignty and independence. Our country is not currently militarily threatened and I wish it were never again. But if the international situation and even the situation in our European neighbourhood were somewhat better known in Levika, we would be aware of our own indiscretions. Security is one of the fundamental human rights and national security is the basis of social well-being, the basis for economic, social and health security. Slovenia is one of the safest countries in the world, but this security is far from being a self-sustaining and demanding active response to the changing international security environment. And the fundamental framework of our national security is the NATO Alliance, to which a social consensus was reached at the referendum. In 2003, we decided by 6% to join the NATO Alliance, the collective self-defence alliance of all Member States. This has also confirmed the concept and direction of the development of our defence, in the direction of mutual compatibility. As part of the NATO Alliance, we constantly update and train members of the Slovenian Army. It is primarily our responsibility to ensure the security and defence capabilities of our own country. The proposed consultative referendum is indeed a legal institution that is allowed by both the law and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but we in the Group of Members are of the opinion that it is also legitimate. In particular because it is also on the basis of a misleading referendum question on the evident obstacle to the legislative process. The proposal for a call for this consultative referendum will not be supported by the members of the party in particular.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u170	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! Friedrich August von Hayek won the Nobel Prize for Economics in 1974 and he wrote down for history, “If leftists had any idea about anything, especially the economy, they would never be left-handed.” His great economic thought was further enhanced by Václav Havel and his circle, which, for history, preserved that famous “Lie is the immortal soul of the left-wing.” And today's proposal, which we are facing and which, in the past, in the media and in the general public, has been a source of great passion, is certainly the best proof of the justification of both great men of history. See, there is always the biggest lie that surrounds the entire history of independent Slovenia in countless forms; that how right governments deal with weapons. What is the truth, ladies and gentlemen? The truth that can and will be proved by the submission of relevant documents, if necessary, by the gentlemen of the Ministry. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that the increased expenditure on arms was first committed to a letter from the former President of the LDS, Mr Drnovška Tone Rop. Moreover, he did it on his own, unlawfully. Obviously illegal, for I should have informed the National Assembly sooner, but it's not. He sent this letter on Slovenia's commitment to increased arms to the international community and only then went to parliament for a ride. Later on, the story with the armored men followed, and you can be sure that the Patria affair would never have been chosen at the time on the invitation of Viator Vector or Pavček of LDS, but those who made the decision would have opted for decades of newer and incomparably better armors, and the story is then widely known to all. Piko told the Constitutional Court about it, which said, from the first to the last line of everything that happened at the time in the courts and with the abuse of the institutions of Slovenia, human rights violations. Well, let's move on to the story of increased weapons, which is so critical and attacked today. Do you know who was the next to send an international commitment to make Slovenia significantly more armed and substantially increased money for arms? Alenka Bratusek. The leftist government again. And you won't believe it. Then, in her time, a choice has already been made for the current boxers. [[?]] which is criticized and attributed to the current government. And it was finally decided in 2017, and then it is the following, the real government of Mr Marjan Sarc, who, with their votes, exclusively made it possible and played a leading role for the gentlemen of the Left, who, today and in the past days, have continuously launched a demagogy on arms, has sent a final commitment to the international community to decide on the purchase of armored boxers in an appropriate number. So much for who's really the one who's a Slovenian gunman. Everything that was key has been made in the time of left-wing governments. The first covenant was even made in an illegal way. Of course by the left-wing government, Mr. Tonet Rope. And then Alenka Bratusek, Mr. Sarec and so on. That's it. Interestingly, if asked by the average Slovenian or Slovenian, I would certainly only put up with this information, even though it is documented. There are credible documents about this, some of which I have already shown here in this National Assembly, but make sure that the media orchestra, which, of course, gives the imagination to Slovenes and Slovenes, is objectively informed from the central media. I am very interested in how much they will be properly informed today about what I have just said, because that is what every Slovenian should know, and I think that we should even be learning at school, given the demagogy around this. Now, how do we get to safety? Ladies and gentlemen, security is one and indivisible. And whoever thinks the world today is so that we can all just give up everything on the subject of security is either completely irresponsible or the fool is making out of his own citizens and citizens. Unfortunately, the world is increasingly entangled in the clouds of conflict between us, and just as we are discussing it, you all know that Russia has accumulated units on the Ukrainian border, which, of course, can be reflected very quickly also in the security situation in Slovenia, that the Balkan boiler is on the ground very close here. You have been able to convince yourself in the past weeks, already in statements that have limited almost to a battle forecast, after some major players have put pressure on those strains that have made these statements, the situation has calmed down, but it warns that, of course, even in our immediate neighbourhood, there can be very severe exacerbations and thus, of course, security consequences for Slovenia. It is during this period that there is a common, large-scale military exercise of the sea of Iran, Russia and China, of course, that is just another warning of how fragile today is the value that we think so self-evidently this is security. But security is not only important because it is a condition of everything: a condition of prosperity, a condition of development. Security in today's world is increasingly the basis of development decisions. Money, capital, if you want capable people, their families, businesses are already moving to those countries that are safer. A few decades ago, it would have seemed like science fiction if someone said that, for security reasons, they would move to entrepreneurship from Sweden to Poland, but that's exactly what has been happening in recent years, and it's in large numbers. Businesses are moving with small children because in Sweden, which has gone left-wing policy of open borders for so long that it has disappeared into a third world, people are not feeling safe anymore and are moving to Poland, which has not made a mistake strengthening their security and defence and people feel safe there. It is certainly a security investment today, and especially an investment in development. On the one hand, for the sake of security itself, which means green light, attractiveness for those who have money, for those who have knowledge, for those who have entrepreneurial ability, for businesses. On the other hand, this is also, of course, linked to the issue of credibility. Before that, I told the leftist governments of LDS, Toneto Ropa, and Alenka Bratušek there until the last Marjan Šarca, which was created and existed, because of the left, they committed Slovenia to increased arms use. Now, however, this Government is in a position to do so because the commitment has already been made before the international community and, of course, there is now also a question of credibility here, and that country, which is credible, is certainly also more interesting to investors, for all those who are looking for a reliable partner in today's world, and this, together with security, is certainly an element that allows for faster development and only faster development of entrepreneurship gives long-term prosperity. Everything else is just a tax, socialist apprehension, which was beautifully spoiled by Iron Lady Margaret Thatcher when she said the problem of socialism is that sooner or later other people's money is running out. But when it comes to development, of course, it is necessary to strengthen everything that builds on one side of security and on the other, entrepreneurship, and it is therefore necessary to stress at this point that what is invested in buying some equipment for which the left governments, as I have stressed, have committed themselves to the international community is not enough. We're gonna have to change two more. It will be necessary to provide adequate salaries significantly greater than they are for Slovenian soldiers and also for all others who defend Slovenia with their work and their lives, its borders, ensure security, because, of course, there will be a very big problem here and very soon. On the other hand, this is related to something else, because sometimes it is more important than money with a question of actual relationship, with the question of value, respect for value, patriotism, love for its homeland must become a real value not only to which all the Presidents of Slovenia refer in their speeches, but it must be a value to follow in actions which must be an integral part of the school programmes, which must also be part of the decisions of this National Assembly when it comes to decisions on strengthening security when it comes to investing in the Slovenian Army, when it comes to establishing an appropriate position for those who wish to join the military, so that its kind actually improves. All other alternatives provided by the current Joint Alliance are significantly more costly. This should also be cleared up once and for all. We've heard neutrality too often. People of God, she's neutral, like Switzerland. The most expensive army per capita is Swiss under many criteria. Why? Because then the country has to take care of all parts of the army and Slovenia does not have to. Slovenia has undertaken these international commitments to form a battalion group to form and strengthen this part of the army, so let's say it does not need to strengthen the entire aviation, which is extremely expensive. Switzerland has decided only one referendum to restore, watch out, not to establish, but only to restore its aviation and it has a purchase of €6.5 billion with a single purchase, to imagine what it means if one country declares neutrality and then has to take full care of all military systems in its territory. This is terribly expensive and very few countries can really afford it. It is similar with the so-called non-classification. We also hear this story a number of times, for the first time there has never been a non-classification, so the king's fifth column of former socialist states, and the second is that it is necessary to know that, for example, when Yugoslavia was unlisted, the former Yugoslav People's Army, which is the one that attacked and defeated us, went up to 25% of the social gross product. Do you have any idea what kind of sum this developmental bar was? 25%, in some cases it went even to 40, but 25% seemed normal. Today we are talking about raising the percentage from the current good percentage in perspective to half and then in years there to up to 2%. Compare this with 25 percent, and you will see what unscrupulousness means if all the great flossules are released and, of course, real matters are discussed. When it comes to reality, unfortunately from Roman times, the river is that river, "you're a higher duck, a pair of bellum" if you want peace, then you have to prepare for war. Even the international community, as I pointed out at the outset, is such, there is no way at this moment that someone who has given up their security and that nothing will happen to him. As long as one alone strengthens arms and at the moment is certainly the one who is doing so to the greatest extent China, which has raised its arms spending already on the mind that 322 billion euros and is now five times the consumer of arms money like Russia, of course, other countries must also take care of the right answer, not alone, but together. In Nate, we are linked to Article 5, which ensures that anyone attacks one member, then they can expect the appropriate military response of all others. This is a common security that has ensured peace in Europe for so many decades, and we only hope that it will continue to do so. Personally, I am convinced that it is also in the current tightening of muscles, however, and that at the end of the day there will be no worse consequences. However, it is necessary to know that when such stories happen, however, it is necessary to be very careful, for it is enough that one wrong person is, let us say, a little overtly in some place, and at the moment things can get out of all contexts and then we can witness very bad consequences for the whole of Europe and even for Slovenia. So much for a security issue. The second is that the Slovenian Army is a pillar of statehood. It is a pillar of statehood, which on the one hand means value and on the other hand also strengthens the country as such, is an integral part of it. After all, Slovenia, as a independent country, was founded by the victory of Slovenia against a more theoretically powerful opponent, which was the Yugoslav People's Army, but which did not, of course, have the Slovenian people behind it, as our army did. This is why it goes here, once again, also on the issue of relations. For the issue of values. And it must be realized that even when peace is not a direct military threat, the military has an important role to play. On the one hand, we were able to make sure that the security cases could only be self-sustained, a few years ago, when the biggest influx of illegal migrants to the Slovenian border was extremely aggressive, unfortunately some five-year-olds from Slovenia helped and even aggressively opposed those Slovenes who were trying to ensure order and peace at the border. But even those who came, the illegal migrants, therefore, in some of the current years, have been throwing everything you can think of, from granite to stone, to bottles, I don't know what was flying in the air. [[…]] And this aggression lasted until the moment the Slovenian Army arrived. With just a few armors. In a moment it was over, in a moment they understood the message, and in a moment, the security of all those who came, those who cared for order and peace here, these were not only policemen, but also firefighters, many others who helped at the border at the time, and this is also an important role, it is said to be a symbolic role, which is still quite real in certain cases that the Slovenian Army has. And in the end, it's about helping with the traps. We're always hearing what we need to hear. No, we've been listening to some serious insults over there. I would like to point out that the Slovenian Armed Forces have never, in any case, participated in any occupation. And such insults, ladies and gentlemen, are only intended to create a negative atmosphere against the Slovenian Army and thus against Slovenian statehood. Whoever is doing this is deliberately destroying the Slovenian state. And I should be responsible for that. But when it comes to the role of the military, it is obvious, well known, and very positive. After all, if we're talking about armor, one case from my constituency. You all know the lake and beautiful valley that leads to that beautiful mountain place. But there are times when nature is severe and a few years ago it caused the falling stone to make it impossible to provide safe transportation by conventional vehicles. She immediately established a direct connection with the Slovenian Army and those days, as long as this danger lasted, regularly drove with the armoured men to work, to school, to doctors and then back home, so that normal life was enabled to the fullest extent possible. This is also the mission of the Slovenian Army, and that is why it needs what we are deciding today, so that – to conclude, the Slovenian Army needs more. He needs real respect for values, respect for her work, deserves it, deserves all respect and, of course, deserves the right reward for it. So that boys, young people, can re-elect the profession that provides security for everyone, ensures the integrity of the country, and unfortunately, because of the circumstances that are getting better and better in today’s world. This is for the profession of the Slovenian soldier in order to preserve it, in order to preserve the statehood in order to preserve the Slovenian state, we must make the appropriate decisions. Today, we will certainly be in the SDS, and we will be unitedly opposed to the proposal for a consultative referendum, which is a pure stalemate farce and the transfer of its proponents.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca, will be presented by Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u172	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. However, despite the fact that we are talking today about the proposal to call for an advisory referendum, we cannot go beyond the content of defence policy, which in some parts is still controversial from the point of view of overpriced and inadequately planned investments and is, in fact, already a third treatment with a similar topic in this National Assembly. Now, the first was related to the Act on the provision of investments in the Slovenian Army in 2021 to 2026, which provides for an amount of EUR 780 million from the budget of Slovenia. The second was linked to the Resolution on the overall long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035, where we cannot, in fact, still know exactly how much the planned investment in the document will cost the country. So, a new resolution on the fact that the old one is still in force. In fact, both coalition parties rejected the possibility of citizens expressing their views at the referendum and in the third, as stated in the call for an advisory referendum on the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and OCAR, resulting from the envisaged purchase of Boxer military vehicles worth 412 million euros. And the purchase of these vehicles, Boxer, which were estimated at 207 million euros in 217, is now the price of 412 million euros. One part, let's say we can assign inflation, but a respectable 100-percent embezzlement? And let me point out another paradox of this government. The financial consequence of the purchase of Boxer vehicles was recorded in the original consideration of the agreement, later in the ratification that we have discussed, mentioning the possible financial implications, in fact, because the Ministry of Defence, according to the Secretary of State, does not really know exactly how much the issue will become of taxpayers. They say they'll get an offer after the contract is signed. So find out who's got to. And within the framework of the joint arms organisation, only three European Union countries are currently members of Boxer. And why should Slovenia, as one of the smallest, not a very broad financial range when we are talking about financial investments for the military, also become a member of this programme. What do we actually get out of this in our country? And we must not forget that the public debt of the Republic of Slovenia today is a good EUR 40 billion and we need to think carefully about where we are investing in the future, that is, where we are investing in the future. Money doesn't fall out of the sky. And of course, in LMŠ we are aware that the Slovenian series of years was also nourished. And that is why, of course, in the previous government, the LMŠ government, the first since 2010, we have raised funds more significantly for military investment and for personnel in the Slovenian military. We have raised those funds taken by the former Government of Janša with ZUJF and since then, since 2010, it has cost everything in several areas, not only in the military. And the Slovenian army must therefore remain subject to respect and, of course, support, which we are aware of in the LMŠ, and therefore the call for the human resources reinforcement of the army is certainly in place. In fact, when we lose people, no Boxers are actually helping us, no tanks are helping us, nor are they helping us with some technological solution if we don't have people doing these things. However, despite what we have said, we believe that the consultation referendum will not help to clarify the purchase or the clear price of this deal, nor can it change the decision of those who voted in favour of such an agreement in any way, since such a referendum is not binding. In PS LMŠ, we also believe that, of course, we must also invest in the military, update it, but these investments must be extremely thoughtful in the light of the current financial situation, which are all more favourable and therefore with a clear plan and without the satisfaction of some of the interests of the parties. That is why we will follow this business very closely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u173	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the position of the parliamentary groups. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal to call for an advisory referendum. Before I put the debate forward, I'll just figure out who else has been reported to Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec, mag. Branislav Rajić, Primož Siter, Miha Kordiš, Mateja Udovč. That's some of the first ones on the list. I ask, does the proposer want a word? [[Yeah.]] He does. First, I give the text to the proposer, Michi Kordiš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, chairman. At the outset, let me link myself to the previous item of the agenda, where we can hear how left-wing people don't know with public money and imagine that it is growing in a tree, but just every time we spend this public money on weapons that we don't need and in very large amounts, it turns out that it is us who are acting in politics as the guardian of public finances and public interest for which people are finally paying taxes. I will continue to respond to some of the allegations and points with which it has served to present the views of the parliamentary groups, as well as to present the views of the Government's representatives. To begin with, let us resolve a legal formal statement on how our question for the referendum is to say whether the EUR 400 million of our money will go to the armoured man or not, a vague and misleading question. However, we have run out of arguments as to why and where and how, specifically, our referendum issue is really unclear and truly binding. I remember the working body of the National Assembly, a few days ago, where we discussed it, and I will try to draw the answer out of this, which is somehow going in the direction that the agreement with the OCCAR is really just the basis for purchasing armored equipment, not buying these armored equipment itself. Look, people in this country don't take this kind of hairbrush too well. We all know why we're joining the OCCAR to throw 400 million euros to buy Boxer 8x8, and that's it. We are not going to the OCCAR organization to garden together and produce each of our own tomatoes for our house, but to buy a very specific war technique, which gives a very good basis and underlines our referendum question, which therefore stands, the referendum is meaningful and in reverse proportion to purchase [[?]] Embarrassers that are completely pointless. The second argument I have to explain is a question of price. I have already mentioned this 400 million euro in my position on several occasions, which in itself is a rather frightening information. Where people in this country can afford almost half a billion euros, throw away some foreign military industrial complexes, weapons intended to use 10,000 kilometres outside the borders of our country, for Afghanistan, Mali, for the Middle East, in short, where neither Slovenian rubber nor Slovenian boots have anything to look for “and the first place”, the Slovenian army is used only as an expedition corps in the service of servicing the interests of foreign superpowers and foreign power centres with which Slovenian life and Slovenian money have nothing. The price is also frightening from the point of view of its leaping growth. It did not start at EUR 400 million, it started at EUR 207 million. The first was discussed by Minister Katič at the time of Cerarje's government, when the 56th Armoureds were scheduled to purchase, but then the issue was slightly suppressed by the disagreement between the Ministry and the General Staff, while the military technique was to be purchased, the invitation, then published in September 2017, was postponed and the price started to rise at the same time. The budget memorandum for 2018 and 2019, where the purchase cost for 56 vehicles was estimated at EUR 207 million, the starting price. Later, in an interview with the Slovenian Army, State Secretary Bizjak has already served with a higher figure, “Rekši”, so that these armoured personnel will probably charge some 250 million euros. In parallel, Dnevnik reported a more realistic estimate of EUR 280 million. Then there was a real initiative to conclude an agreement on the association of the OCCAR organisation, which was practically the last day of its mandate tried to bring the then Cerar government through Parliament. In this agreement the amount of EUR 306 million in VAT for 48 boxer vehicles was indicated [[?]] . So not only are we talking about a higher final amount here, we are talking about a higher final amount for a smaller number of vehicles. We used the Public Information Access Act in Levica and later came up with documents showing that two versions of this initiative were prepared for the MORS government to join Oker at the time [[?]] . These two initiatives were completely similar, except for the cost assessment point. There was an estimate of EUR 306 million in one, and this was given to the Foreign Policy Committee of the National Assembly. The second was an estimate of €351 million, amounting to already €50 million. Later, we learned from the media that in the time before we were able to stop this purchase of armor, the price went up to an additional €392 million. Although the MOR has never formally confirmed this, in response to our written question, he said that in December 2018 the price offered was EUR 331 million with VAT, but without the inclusion of escalating clauses and the price of development payments. What we now have on the table is the price of 45 shells for 412 million euros and 53 shells for 412 million euros. This is not even that important, then I will continue to clear up where the gap is coming from. And we have an increase in costs somehow such as this. At first, we had 56 vehicles for €207 million or €3.7 million per vehicle. Then 48 vehicles for EUR 306 million or EUR 6.3 million per armour, which is a 70 % increase from baseline. Now, we're talking about 45, let's put in armor, vehicles for 412 million euros, which is going to come to 7.77 million euros on an individual armor or 110% price increase on the basis of baselines. I mean, it's only possible for weapons acquisitions. I don't know if we've even overpaid some of the busy highways as much as we overpaid every time we've had an armed affair. And the weapons affair boxing in the making has its predecessors, even a bunch of them. There was virtually no major military purchase in the 30-year history of Slovenia, so things would not go so badly wrong. No, we are not talking about the proven corrupt business of the Patria affair, which is why the current Prime Minister of the Government, Janez Janša, was sitting, we are talking about all the other businesses that were imported. Israeli hubs, M-55-S tank update [[?]] or the last, younger sister of the affair of Patria, the affair of Oškoš [[?]] 4x4. We really don't know any different than the falsified larger purchase of military technology in this country. He's not here. In order for some business to be done rationally, transparently, deliberately, anything like that, this is not in Slovenian history. Last case, Oškoš [[?]] 4x4, which I'm talking about, is very talkative in this sense, which shows exactly the same trends as the current ambition after buying 8x8. The first number and the first cost assessment that we could afford and so just flew into the public without any knowledge of this purchase of armor was EUR 15 million. Since we were paying attention in Levica and following the whole process under the magnifying glass, we quickly came to the finish line and we fled the Ministry of Defence to cough up the actual final cost, which went up to €40 million for a few ten of these 4x4 shells, which was eventually taken over by Minister Tonin, where he inherited this business from his previous mandate and took over in a state of emergency. This is also possible only in the field of arms purchases. Now you're imagining that the government, the ministry, even though any public institution that buys some sort of personal vehicle for official use, would take over cars that don't go through the technical department, they're supposed to have broken bars and I don't know what else. But when it comes to armored goods, this can come from a commodity that is technically inadequate, broken, which does not go over the technical, we will if all of this goes down. [[Incomprehensible]] It's okay, we're gonna defend the U.S. supplier of Oskoskie against criticizing these hippies in Levica, which is kind of a sentiment that we've been getting all the time. The purchase of 4x4 Oškoš is also spoken from the point of view of naked opacity, not only that we had to literally pull out an evaluation from the Ministry of Defence and this went slowly up and up. The purchase itself was covered by items in the budget which were not intended at all. In fact, we paid these neck-to-neck armors only to comply with a certain high rank within the Slovenian Army, who want to have new toys and, of course, foreign military industrial complexes and pressures from the top of the NATO Federation. We don't have any reason to expect anything else in Boxer 8x8 armors. If this leaping price rise, which has more than doubled over the past few years, speaks of the fact that business is suspicious from the start and will be doubtful and will certainly be useless and harmful also finished, which does not revitalise my basic points and I will have to point out no matter how many shells we buy no matter how many shells come, even if they are bought completely rationally it is still a waste of civil money on the sides, because they are useless for any defence of the homeland even under the assumption that Slovenia would be at any military risk, which of course is not held at any point. I'm going to continue this gap between 45 and 53 armored men. Our first information around which we set up a referendum initiative in order to get people to comment on armored persons and 400 million people at the referendum really contained a number of 53 armoured people, this was official information, and then at the beginning of the process of accession to the Ocker organization, with which Minister Tonin himself was supposed to buy the armored ones himself, who served with information that the armors were not 53 and was 45. Now, if you tell us that we are deceiving these numbers and we are manipulating these numbers, you basically tell us that they must not trust Minister Tonin because he tells us that we will not buy 53 armored persons, but that 45 of them will, after all, be completely irrelevant to this difference in 8 vehicles at the end of the day, given that we do not need them and that they are in any case extremely burdensome for Slovenian public finances. The next argument, if we can put it this way, is actually a zyszelenia about how the defence consensus was established in this country long ago in 2003, when a referendum was organised to join the NATO Union. In fact, the flossule is also very harsh and offensive to the intelligence of citizens and citizens, who then really went to the polls and surrounded the association of the NATO plague, which was accompanied only by the North Atlantic Treaty. This is those few articles of mutual mutual defence between individual countries. This is what exists on paper as the NATO Pact and what people at the 2003 referendum spoke about. No one said in 2003 whether Slovenia should throw 780 million euros for weapons, as recorded in Tonin's law. Or about buying armor 8x8 for 400 million or more. About these ambitions of boys at the Ministry of Defense who would buy even hoodies over the next few years, cannons. Nobody in this country has asked any questions about these kind of escapades and spending public money on Nate's weapons. It is very rare for us Members to come up with an initiative that we can discuss in concrete and clear terms. In most cases, the entire Slovenian public and the entire institution in the Republic of Slovenia are informed directly from the top of the NATO Federation as it happened in the case of the former Prime Minister of the Government of Mir Cerar, who took us to one such meeting and then told us directly from the camera meeting in Slovenia what our commitments to NATO were. His own ministers, his own government had nothing on the table. And that's how it works in these circles. And those Nat circles are spinning. But they revolve around, in the vast majority, the war of war and the weapons to respond to this accumulated war of war. The top of the NATO Alliance and the Generals of the Union then do nothing quite different than the merchants of military-industrial complexes operating in the leading countries of the NATO Union. That's it. It's one very expensive and very bloody business and absolutely nothing else. This is the reality of the Nato Pact, which forces us to purchase these weapons. That's what I think will cover the answer to the argument of the NATO referendum, how people said something at the time. They weren't. They weren't. A good example that could be taken as an example, including something immediately from a government-coalitional argument as our argument in Levica, is a recent example of Switzerland. Switzerland has decided to purchase new military jets, but this decision is difficult for several billion euros, €6.5 billion, if I am not mistaken, to leave to people to decide at the referendum. Otherwise, this initiative to buy military planes, the referendum won, for mouse hair, but it did, but hey, at least the topic got to people. They had a campaign, they had a public debate, and people said it at the referendum. They had the opportunity to circle or want this money to go to military planes or not. Which is not much different than what we propose and what we want. Let's give people a chance to referendum, whether they decide whether we're going to put 400 million euros in shells or not. It's not some weird initiative coming from the extreme left, which is the aura that the lawyers would like to create for this weapons purchase. What we are proposing should in fact be the most normal thing in a democratic country, as was the most normal thing in Switzerland, that they went and said they were buying military technology at a referendum. Another argument that we are constantly listening to is how we must prepare for war today, something about strategic planning, and how we must think ahead. I mean, we literally have half a country in a clean waste because there is no money for people's urgent needs, with the complete absence of any kind of planning. I'm talking about the fact that we're missing 10,000 public non-profit apartments. I'm talking about 12 thousand people in the waiting line for nursing homes, which are long-term, malnourished. I am talking about the fact that we have a public health system on the verge of capacity that has been running for a very long time on the ethical drive of a medical proletariat working and working in a virtually impossible situation. I mean, the quality of our health system that we get for the money we give is actually pretty amazing. Where the hell is strategic planning? And there is no threat in the future but a cruel reality here and now that people in this country live, that we have a housing crisis, that we have a care crisis, that we have a health crisis and we have had it before the COVID-19 epidemic, that we are in a developmental backlog, that we are on the climate collapse as far as the greatest challenge of the 21st century even begin. What do you think is going to happen to the green social transition itself, what a poof, the market will take care of that. He won't. The market has made a problem, the only public intervention and redistribution of social wealth is the one that can solve it and can eliminate it. And it requires massive public investment. Among other things, public passenger traffic. In Slovenia 40% of emission emissions create traffic, people simply need to get on buses and trains. Not with a stick, but by offering them quality, affordable public transport, which will not be built and invested in itself. And it will be much more difficult for any government to implement, update and complete it if it lacks EUR 400 million in the budget, because, hey, the boys at the Ministry of Defence and their friends with high spells want us to throw this money to some NATO gunmen. Then they'll be happy to be safe. Look, all these social needs require political commitments, which are also subject to financial sequencing. The money that comes with guns is the money that runs out for everything else. Very simple, we have a state budget, which is limited to where this money will go. If it goes to A, then it won't be for B. But the other thing about strategic planning is, I'll go back to OSHKOSH 4X4, for example, where armors were bought on the basis of investment documentation. But then these armored men arrived, and we received the investment documentation in Levica, and at the same time, when the minister took over these broken armoured OSHKOSH 4x4s, we also called a meeting of the working body in the National Assembly, based on investment documentation that these ordered armorers did not even hold. We had investment documentation, and now we're going to order some of these and those vehicles. Vehicles arriving in almost half of the points almost, in half of the points, deviated from this investment documentation. I mean, this is what this strategic planning looks like in the area of defence, or more specifically in the area of arms purchases. These are some documents that are being prepared for this because it is formally necessary to carry out, on the basis of them, an evil military technique that we do not need. Next argument. The changed security environment and the situation in the neighborhood. It is interesting how the international security environment changes on its own. We always hear about a changed security environment and a changing security environment. It is as if security conditions are created by God-given grace or by devilish provocation, without being altered by specific policies of specific countries. And who broke the whole region between Morocco and Iran, which produced the greatest refugee crisis since the second century. World War II. Is this a changed security environment that has changed on its own? No, no, no. The biggest factor in a changed security environment, reading the dispersion of other countries, is our biggest, apparently, allies within NATO's pact. And certain European countries have scattered Libya, other European countries have collaborated with the United States in bombing and occupation of Iraq, and of course Afghanistan is also from which, together with the Americans, we have run away dishonorably and so on, because I do not think I need individuals of “cases” here to point out that my basic argument comes through. It is that the security environment changes not only by itself, but by our allies. And now, because of what our allies are doing, the Slovenian army is also involved, as instructed by Slovenian politics, so let us now buy additional weapons. Well, wasn't one of Afghanistan's experiences enough? We now need more armor and more weapons to participate in these changes in the security environment or occupations of some third countries. Or if you want a slightly milder formulation of cooperation on missions under the auspices of the NATO Pact. As long as you have such a formulation and follow words as an occupation marker. The same can be said about what is happening in the neighborhood. I mean, what are you telling us, ladies and gentlemen, when you say our safety is at risk, or it will be threatened by what's happening in the neighborhood? Apparently, in military subtext, that means military threat. Given that the Russian Federation is a friendly state, it is your duty to prepare for the war with Russia. Really? But we will send Slovenian boys and girls and the Slovenian budget to Ukraine or in some back-up operations to participate directly or indirectly in Nat's aggression against the Russian Federation. Do you really want to go to war with Russia? Is that what we'd be prepared to do with what's happening in our neighborhood? Because that's it, that's the truth of your words when we clear them of the flossule. That's it. Nor is the Russian Federation the one who would be the great entertainment and aggressor in Ukraine, as Nat’s propagandists want to paint, but has, in fact, been suppressed in the strategic defense for 30 years since the collapse of the Soviet Union. Then the pact is one that has moved its eastern border for almost a thousand kilometers closer to Russia, despite its promises not to do so. [[…]] Then the pact is one that has strongly supported and touched on the de facto coup d'état that took place in Ukraine and supports increasing tensions with the Russian Federation, while Russia is the one that is constantly withdrawing. The peace agreement of Minsk 2 was adopted, and it was the Ukrainian extreme right that, with the support of the Pact, did not take into account and constantly broke it. Now you are using what our allies are doing and changing the security environment, if I use your vocabulary, as an argument why Slovenia should buy armored weapons on silent ground to actually use these armored weapons in some armed conflict in which we have nothing to look for. And that's what people in this country know, so even on a large, three-quarter, consistently, regardless of at least any research, these kind of arms purchases are opposed to. And we should be able to talk about weapons acquisitions at a referendum. But of course the danger you see as a referendum not as a holiday of democracy, but as a threat that will reject your militaristic plans. [[…]] That's why, at the time, 780 million euros for the weapons of the law, you gave people a short ban, even though they gave mass signatures, 30,000, in just one week we collected so many of them, in the middle of the epidemic, in the middle of the winter cold. But rather than listen to people, they were reasoned and proved to them why the hell we needed this weapon and proved to them that they were somehow threatened, even though people in this country correctly find that they did not, you banned the referendum with machinations. The same as you would like to do today with our referendum initiative specifically on armor for €400 million. If anything, we have a human consensus in this country that opposes the loss of civilian money for weapons. In a slightly more institutional form, however, we can see that this consensus is not, at least not as much as any of the individuals involved would have wanted it. Either this is my retirement position, either it's war malice and militarism of the current government or something in between, which is a political environment. To base the purchase of armor with some consensus is therefore really attracted to the hair. And if you don't believe me, trust the Chief of General Staff, who made himself very clear on this subject, I'm going to quote him when he gave an interview on the national radio on 15 May. This is what Mr Robert Glavas, Chief of General Staff said: "We expect certain equipment to be bought in the future and that the first fighting group may be built over a period of several years. Of course, this can be a very good army, but we must get a consensus beyond what Slovenia wants from this army." Thus, we do not have consensus on the basic defence concepts and ways that this country and this society should walk. And that's why you want to force and force people to squeeze these weapons down their throats, because in a good way, in your "supervisory" way, of course, this will not work because people are hard against it. In our position against arms purchases in Levica, we are not alone. Last December, it is said, a good two months ago, 50 Nobel laureates spoke publicly, with an initiative to reduce global war budgets by 2% per year across individual countries. So, not just some Vaclavi, Haveli, who likes to fabricate and use them for his mistaken arguments, Mr Grims, here we have 50 heads, 50 Nobel laureates, globally recognized people who have spoken about systematically reducing military spending by 2% per year and redirecting, of course, funds into some more productive water. Some of these scenarios in the Slovenian context have already been highlighted; elderly homes, youth apartments, public transport, climate crisis and so on. And these 50 Nobel laureates are not the only global vote against the proliferation of arms and war hysteria. If you want an example from another ideological point of view, we can look at Rome and the current pope, who made it very clear at the beginning of last year that armed conflict and spending money on weapons, scandal, - scandal. This is not what I, as a member of the Left, have made known to you the statements of the current pope. Come in. The following argument is somehow shared, depending on which Member submits it from the right-wing tribunal of the National Assembly, I am talking about purchasing armored men, their beards, their history through individual governments. Don't get me wrong, I am firmly opposed to this country spending on weapons, no matter what color tie they sit on the Ministry and how they make their own ideas politically. This is totally irrelevant to me, but I am still proud of this political victory that we succeeded in the beginning of our current mandate, in 2018, exactly the same thing that we are accepting today, namely the agreement to join the OCCAR to purchase 8x8 Boxer Armours, to stop and prevent the Left as the treaty opposition, with the then government of Marjan Sarca, and this was on the same day that Mr. Sarec was elected as the mandate-holder and began to form the Government, because we have made it very clear that with the Government, with which Levi will participate, there will be no major controversial arms purchases, and we have succeeded the state and people then “split” 350 million euros at the expense of these armoured persons. Now, how does Mr Grims find in this action the argument that the Levica is the one that allows the purchase of weapons, I don't know, the question if he knows, but it doesn't matter, does it, but on the other hand we have Mr. Horvato from New Slovenia, who uses this same thing as I just presented it as an argument against us in Levica, czech, yes, you in Levica are going to political corruption, you have prevented the purchase of armored persons and I don't know what else. I mean, dear right-wing tribune, now consider each other; whether the Left "split" the people with these 350 million euros and stopped buying armory, as Mr Horvat says, and is in fact right or Left is allowing arms purchases, and in spite of that, it is only "bluffing" as Mr Grims says. Come on, get your stories straight. You're all against this referendum, you're all for buying this weapon, now let's deal with each other, what's true here, what's the role of us in Levica, but I've told myself what the role of us in Levica is. Once we have prevented the purchase of these armoured weapons, I am still very proud of this, we have “split” the people 350 million euros, we are actually trying to do the same today. It would be funny, almost ironic if we didn't talk about such high amounts and so tragic consequences for the country if we found out that the current mandate 2018 - 2022 started on the topic of buying Boxer 8x8 armors and is now ending before the elections with the topic 8x8 Boxer armors. Military threat, security up, security down, even with this argument, with this argument, lawyers are very long and wide entanglement of arms, which is very obvious that they are not pouring with flossules. Security is one and indivisible, security up, security down, so we need to copy the weapon, but in this equation and in this chain there is a whole series of different arguments and causal links. To begin with, we can ask ourselves about these particulars, which are lacking in these arguments, that we need to ensure this security of our own. Who's threatening us militarily? And if we're buying a classic military technique for a classic military conflict, then we need an answer who's the one who's putting us at military risk. Who's got the tanks on our borders and wants to drive across? Is it Italy, a member of the NATO Pact, a Croatian member of the NATO Pact, a Hungarian member of the NATO Pact and a great friend of the current Government, which transforms our beautiful country into a binding state of the Orban regime. Is this Austria that is neutral? I mean, we're surrounded by friendly countries and they'll be friendly to these countries. However, if there is something else in the middle and there is an implied argument of some conflict with the Russian Federation, then this only supports and strengthens my starting point, which is that for the first time, we are not really militarily threatened, we can talk about military threat if then it will cause a problem and if we get into this problem and if we go into conflict with China and Russia, there will be no problem. At least the second argument is a little more military-technical, but the fact that these armoured men are not even fit to defend the country. These Boxers are the poorest 36 tons, too heavy, too wide to use half the country that is foresty. How are you gonna get in with a giant machine like that over Puck? You won't. You won't. We don't have anything to do with armor like that. And that's what the authorities know. The Establishment at the Ministry of Defence knows this, with continuity from before the previous governments, is not just a specific feature of the current government with the establishment at the Ministry of Defence, which wants to buy military toys in one way or another has a problem with any suit other than the one that is gladly removed. And that's why you buy armors like you buy them, but in fact they're completely useless for any defense of the country, even if you assume with nothing a number of heads and nothing to be militaryly threatened. Let us just look at the battlefields of recent times around the world where and how many there have been, or in the last few decades after all, how armored men have been in such conflicts. They weren't. They weren't. They've been slaughtered everywhere like clay pigeons. The last conflict in the Karabakh Mountains, I have often exposed it in recent months because it is so paradigmical. It's just the fiery armor completely useless, completely useless, and the puff of the puff is gone. [[…]] If you have nothing to do with a middle battalion group based on armor as something to defend the country. You can't. You can't. However, these armored men are suitable for something else, such as patrolling in the suburbs of Baghdad, for example, in the role of auxiliary occupational squads by stealing from the countries of the Middle East. After American cowboys scattering a country, bombarding it into dust and back into the Middle Ages, the Slovenian army comes in the form of an expedition corps on these armored men to help them oppress the nations that live there. This is the structural role of such a battalion group based on armored personnel as we build it with us, that this is somehow intended for our own security and the defence of the country. I mean, it's so larifari that God help. What these great security lawyers and advocates of the Slovenian Army are putting at risk, and I don't know what else these great patriots actually say to the security and in fact to the dignity of the people working in these security systems. We had not so long ago on the table initiative of New Slovenia that soldiers should be banned from trade unions. Wait a minute people are good enough to wear Slovenian uniforms but they are not good enough to respect their working rights. There are so many of you to the welfare of the Slovenian Army and the Slovenian soldier. Even the basic labour rights of the people would not be recognized and they would be banned by trade unions and continue in the same way in the current government where the trade unions are being bullied. We'd like to fire them. Why? Because they point to the fact that the Slovenian Army has, in a purely excessive part, become the bedrock of human corruption, customerism. High-acting human resources corruption of all the lions on orders unlike the police or any other system where you have to have procedures, regulations and everything else. That's what's being done in the military, and it's being shot down by human resources corruption. The servants of those who are willing to kiss the golden side are rewarded with suitable ministerial servants, with suitable advancements, with suitable status. However, those who speak of receiving a severe mobbinge, sexual harassment and similar cases should be covered up and placed under carpets and protected from such union warnings and union activities. This is the second eloquent fact of your relationship to the Slovenian Army, to actual security and to defence. Then there is the third fact that there has been virtually no social dialogue with firefighters at the Ministry of Defence for two years. They have to complain all the time, they have to be constantly, because Minister Tonin is ignoring them. The Fires Act is a last resort. It went out in the media yesterday.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u175	My friend, the topic is the referendum that you requested, not the Firefighters Act, which I hope will be on the agenda of the National Assembly for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u176	That's right, one sentence. The Fires Act included already agreed solutions with actual firefighters, and then one day it fell out of the law of social dialogue. If we really want to take care of security, we have more than one area where this security needs to be ensured, then we need to have a social dialogue or listen to the firefighters who provide us with this security and implement it in the same way that the public health system protects people from disease.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u177	My colleague, if you return to the topic you requested, this is on the proposal for an advisory referendum on ratification between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Organisation in cooperation. Fire and other things we'll do another time.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u178	Thank you, Chairman. I remain within the framework and within the topic, given that the key argument of the opponent is our referendum action in an attempt to stop the purchase of Boxer 8X8 armors for EUR 400 is just a security argument, so we need to buy armor, but security away from having an equation with armor. If there's anything wrong with us. However, the nature of safety has many other features, such as the public health system, which protects us from diseases, and the housing policy, which protects us from getting all the homeless or the victims of rags that charge people too much rent and so on. These are the security faces that this country and the people who live in it, for which we are all supposed to work, and it is much harder to ensure if we give 400 million euros more for armored persons than if we leave that money in the budget and actually invest it where it is supposed to be. The next argument I have to challenge is the claim of neutrality that it is necessarily more expensive than a collective defence or collective aggression than the NATO Pact. We can take the case of Austria. I have been referring to him for years in my arguments on this subject in the National Assembly. Austria is committed to defending 0.8% of its gross social product. How much does Slovenia use? More. Over one percent, when the government rushes all over the country to get 2% of Nat's gross social product, if people go hungry and barefoot in this country go to bed. It's important that the money is for the guns and the armory. Of course, there is another alternative armed neutrality, which is demilitarisation, which is just as legitimate as neutrality as the potential for an alternative, an alternative in the event of an exit from the NATO liaison that should be carried out. Perhaps it is even more appropriate than armed neutrality, in the light of the fact that we are not militarily threatened, and we are threatened by climate change, and the natural disasters that are on the rise are caught up in the light of climate change. And through demilitarisation, they would relieve the budget of most of the military spending and could target resources to strengthen the protection and rescue system. After all, one of the arguments, lawyers buying weapons is also his civilian use. Let's leave how much he's attracted to hair, but there's more than one grain of truth in this. Slovenian citizens and citizens respect the Slovenian soldier, and they also appreciate the Slovenian army in its civilian dimension, not in its military dimension. When it helps with floods, when it helps with the icicle, when it saves people who climb in the mountains and experience an accident, with helicopters. But we can also do these tasks much cheaper and much better without some military omen, even though we persist in military formation, there is certainly a better option than completely useless and lame armor for the occupation of abroad. The purchase of such a technique, which primarily serves a purposeful purpose, does not by accident serve a dual purpose, and is then useful for the home. Helicopter fleet, not those two helicopters from Tonin's Law that are bought for Nate's Special Forces, but this helicopter fleet that is currently based on bells. [[?]] and cougars [[?]] which can serve better for mountain rescue and for similar tasks. These are formations within the Slovenian Army, which actually serve citizens and citizens, not armoured men, so that representatives of the Slovenian Army will ride with them for 10,000 kilometres outside the borders of our country. And just for the record. Who is the greatest threat to world peace because we have heard some lines about, lines of scolding against the Russian Federation and against China. Let's just look at the military budgets. Far from being the largest military budget, the United States of America has. Bigger than the next few countries together. China, India, Russia, Great Britain, Saudi Arabia, Germany, France, Japan, South Korea, Italy, Australia. We take the military budgets of all these countries together, and we do not come to the point of how much for the United States of America that is not throwing money, certainly not to provide our collective defence from its noble majesty, as you would like to convince us here today, but to buy it as leverage and their rod to provide global domination for the oppression of other countries of the world, to play a military policeman. And you know what? Just like people in this country don't want armor, they don't want a military officer at their door who you call allies.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Well, there's no replica, you haven't discussed it yet, Comrade Grimes. First he gets the word Secretary of State Uroš Lampret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u180	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Allow me a few brief explanations on the indications we have heard. I would, however, start with this price or these inaccurate statements, the applicant's comments. All we have already said very clearly in the recital is that the figures we are talking about are the figures in the investment documentation. Investment records. Where we present numbers very clearly. 53 vehicles of investment documentation, where we present the numbers very clearly. 53 vehicles, 412 million euros. What we are saying about the law, which will enable us to enter the OCAR, only after entering the OCAR will we get an offer from the manufacturer to negotiate the final price. Thus, placing certain prices on different numbers, different prices, which once include equipment once do not include equipment, once include tax, once do not include tax. That's what we're talking about when we're talking about deception. Now, about when the case was stopped. Let me remind you, there's a decision at the Ministry of Defense. About the platform, about the platform, about Boxer, 2017. And even on the OCAR purchasing mechanism, because of the transparency of this purchase fell back then, it was a good decision. And it wasn't interrupted, but this case was suspended. For two reasons. Temporarily stopped. The first reason was because there was no possibility of long-term financing of this decision at the time. And this is a matter we fixed with the Investment Act. The second reason was tactical study. We've also changed this tactical study. And the framework that allows us to accept long-term financial bonds is clear. And we have this framework in our marriage. It is very transparent how the modernisation of the Slovenian army will take place and what the financial framework are for the modernisation of the Slovenian army. Now, about the occupation or participation of the Slovenian army in the occupation. I think it's insulting for members of the Slovenian army. Members of the Slovenian Armed Forces participate in international operations and missions and participate in international operations and missions. They all had the mandate of the Security Council of the United Nations. Of the approximately 300 members today, 85% of these members operate in the Western Balkans region. In the Western Balkans region. The importance of the security and stability of this region for the Republic of Slovenia, I think it is clear. The first task of the Slovenian army is to defend the country either independently or within the framework of collective defence. And that's why we're buying these platforms. That's why we've been buying these platforms since 2007. The first plans were when we decided that we would simply not have tanks because they were too expensive and allowed us to abandon the armored units of “unites” and focus on the mechanized units of “mechanized infantry” represented by these platforms, which allowed us to join NATO. [[Incomprehensible]] First number 130 vehicles, for two battalion groups. This number then declined over the years, and then came a decade of rationalisation when investments in the Slovenian army stopped. This does not mean that the Slovenian Army is still expected to carry out its tasks. They have not stopped and we are now at a clear minimum of 56 boxers, 53, 45, today is an expert assessment, an evaluation of experts who also assess the usefulness of these platforms in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia that this number is 45. And that these platforms offer excellent protection. Protection for the crew and firepower with a 30-millimeter cannon. Now on the usability of platforms in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, about Pokluka, about clay pigeons and so on. Now, all countries, I will speak for the European Union. All countries have an army, including Luxembourg has an army, including smaller countries than we have an army. All countries have armor, have mechanized infantry, at least mechanized infantry. Now, Austria, a neutral state, has other armoured men who are much heavier, the main battle tanks. So is Switzerland. Not for museum exhibits, but for the defense of this country. It's a lot bigger, but I wouldn't count it right now. Now the use of these units in our territory, in case of defence, because Slovenia is not only Pokluka. These units will not be used on Triglav, but is using these units, using these units is a military profession. Where and how these platforms are used. In cooperation with the infantry, in cooperation with other matters. Now some comparison, some clay pigeon, how someone destroyed someone else's armor. Comparing War With Mountain Karabakh [[?]] With an Iraqi war, of course, if you have an American army on one side, with a full range of capabilities, on the other hand, an Iraqi armor without support, then these Iraqi thin clay pigeons can be. But American tanks weren't clay pigeons. And so on, about utility. Now, about 4x4 armored vehicles. For the smaller part of these vehicles, for the smaller part of these vehicles, it would not have gone to numbers, the deficiencies that were mainly due to transport have been identified. All these minor shortcomings have been resolved. They were canceled. With new matters on the basis of this contract. Now, about who stopped the referendum. We didn't stop the referendum. Constitutional Court. Constitutional Court. Now, about the consensus section on buying these platforms. When I was talking about the timeline, the profession, the profession in this country and also the policy is quite clear about the consensus on buying these platforms. What are these platforms and also now what is the best mechanism for this purchase? That's why we're saying that we have a consensus that we're united. Now, firefighters, you wouldn't be talking about firefighters. I can only point out that the dialogue that we have been denied is constantly, constantly, constantly working. About the helicopters. In the law that I have already mentioned, the Law on Investments in the Slovenian Army, there are several issues, several capacities that we are buying through this law. 8x8 is only one of the capabilities, but is the basic capacity for the Slovenian Army. We're also buying two helicopters. The platforms have not yet been selected, but they will probably be similar to those platforms already used by Slovenia. Of course, they were bought for the purposes of the Slovenian Army and we use them extensively for other tasks. And these two platforms will be the same platform. But they're going to be targeting not some NATO Special Forces, but the Special Forces of the Slovenian Army. But which is an ally, of course the Slovenian Army is also a NATO army. And the specifics of these helicopters will be in training, training the pilots of these platforms. And added to the sensors of this operation. This does not mean that they will also be able to perform the whole spectrum of other activities, including dual purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The Miha Kordish debate. Here you go. I'll give you the debate as a proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u182	Otherwise, I have a chance of replicating and you're not the one who would use these instruments. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u183	Well. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u184	But okay, okay, I'll be very short. I'm going to respond in a more moderate way to the replica format. Now, the Secretary of State says that EUR 400 million is an indicative price, so that the exact price will still be set in the negotiations. I ask you kindly, however, when there was another purchase in this country that was eventually cheaper than at the beginning. Well, don't make fun of me. We started talking about these same armored people at 207 million euros before we even got to 400 million euros over several steps and years later. This is just one case in the field. Somewhere in the beginning, I was talking about how much we overpaid the freeways, like there'd be anything here, anything else. Even if it were, even if it had all come together to EUR 350 million, a hypothetical case, it is still a measure of €350 million, which we are squandering through the profit window for foreign military-industrial complexes to service leading members within the NATO Pact. Another thing about the mission and the participation of the Slovenian army on missions. We in Levica are not against cooperation on missions at all times, but we say that the necessary formal first condition for participation in missions is the mandate of the United Nations, which does not mean that this mandate is also a sufficient condition. What did the participation of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces in Iraq mean? The de facto training of Kurdish militias in the Barzani regime, which is the binding regime, is little closer to the United States, more and more and more to Erdogan. It's practically a faction in a civil war. This is even more pronounced in the case of Mali. Where the Slovenian mission serves French imperialism and cooperates with one of the factions in the civil war and buy armored personnel, first of all it is the people's life, and now the armored, even the Slovenian money, thank you. I'm not the only one. Three-quarters of the people in this country are in this position. Third thing. It's a stretch. I mean, you're going to find it hard to find a military professional with us who won't be sympathetic to the NATO Union or call herself an expert, but part of Nate's structures or the Ministry of Defence is somehow going to praise each other's horse, so these allegations about how the purchase of armor is professionally justified, I mean, this very large larifari. Now, if you don't like the example of how these armored armored men behave on the battlefield, even at the helm in the nicknames of armed conflict, and we don't need to look abroad, you've rejuvenated that case of my mountain Karabah, we can look at our own history, the secession of Slovenia from Yugoslavia. Please tell me and show me how the armored men behaved for JLA. Not very good, no. Territorial defense, police, hop cup, with lighter and cheaper weapons and with these armored weapons there was nothing. Unusable indeed for anything other than patrolling in the back of some third countries. And just for the record. Helicopters purchased from Tonin's law are bought for Nate's special forces, which are also not an exclusive Slovenian omen. The seat should be where, in Zadar, Split, if I am not mistaken, this special unit and it would be combined again, I quote after memory, but I know that Croatia should be involved, Hungary should also participate, I think so, it is your defence of Slovenia, cooperation with Hungarian special forces where the Government of Orban regime with the map of the great Hungarian, which also cuts apart Slovenian national territory.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The word is wanted by the Secretary of State, Urosh Lampret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. Now, very short on three things. The training of the Kurdish Defence Forces by Slovenian instructors, which we are very proud of with our German partners, came after they were, therefore, the northern Iraq was threatened by Ajesa, ESA and the massacres that took place on the planet Sinjar. And this is being trained by the Kurdish Defense Forces. I think it's more than incontrovertible. Now, regarding the use of armor in the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. I've already talked about this on the board, and I have to repeat it again because of the events of that year, back then. The strategy of using armoured personnel by JLA, I will not go into the correctness of the tactics of this use, which does not mean that armor has not been used. Because when the armor was covered by members of the Territorial Forces and the police, it was overcoloured and useful against the invader. Also, members of the police used their buoys, and they just wanted to have something stronger. This is the last case involving members of the Special Forces. Once again, we've been talking about two helicopter platforms, what you're saying is a joint training centre, which I believe is nothing wrong with training our allies and neighbors, setting up procedures, not joining platforms. The platforms are ours and will be used by our special forces or anyone else in this country when this matter is needed. Training and training together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u187	Thank you very much. We are starting a debate between Members and Members. First, he'll get the word of Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, and then he'll get the mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Now, I'll just be quick for a little while. First fact. It was Slovenia or the Government that decided to accede to the OCCAR Agreement. OCCAR is an organisation made up of several countries that, frankly, has one goal, that you sell Boxer armors, and that, of course, adds a whole bunch of diplomatic immunity and financial privileges to the officials of this organisation. It's just this basic wreck. It's basically some kind of pyramid scheme. Here a group of countries joined together among them are also manufacturers of these armored combat vehicles, which then invite some new buyers to, yes, then sell these armored vehicles. Lithuania is, for example, one of those buyers who fell for this pyramid scheme. Since they signed the agreement, they've been committed to buying armored equipment for six years. They got a couple of vehicles that weren't operational. They were paid in about the amount that I should have received twice as much so that it is also a question of why Lithuania got these armored at half price, but that is not at all essential. Second thing. Does that make sense? According to our assessment, it does not make sense, and I think, even after the assessment of the large number of inhabitants and residents of this country, that is why the answer to this question is, if you want to cut through this political dilemma now, or is it reasonable to spend such dizzying amounts on weapons for armoured men, while people have been facing rising energy prices for almost half a year now, with rising prices of basic food and so on? The government doesn't do anything. The opposition is proposing a law that would at least partially facilitate this situation with energy vouchers, the government rejects and is still waiting. I mean the problem of energy poverty, but for this season and so on. In the end, the question is very simple. Or at a time when we are after two years of crisis with the Covid-19 pandemic and when the end of some of these large-scale increased spending will be some of the world's indexes are also speculating that we are very close to a new economic crisis, people are currently having problems with rising food prices for basic needs, energy, fuel and so on. We can also expect the consequences of the economic crisis to be further exacerbated. On the other hand, whether it makes sense to go shopping now to commit ourselves to buying EUR 400 plus million of some combat vehicles, while a good year ago this government passed a law imposing an additional 780 million military equipment spending on the occasion of the epidemic was passed by this law, which is said to have been very clear at the time. Are we really prepared to spend three quarter billion euros on weapons in one of the biggest health crises in human history? That's not a problem for us. We are determined and have a very clear position on this issue. If, on the other hand, the government says it's all okay, let's go to the referendum. You say yes, it's consultative, it's not money bound. Make it binding, take it personally, take it seriously. Let's go to a referendum, people will say whether we agree or disagree, whether by law or not, after the Constitution, take such a referendum into account. I really do take this as some very empty argument, but this referendum is not binding. I think that such issues, where there is a broad consensus, I do not think that we have heard from many sides that, even during this visible crisis, we should think a little more carefully about how much and for what purposes we should invest in the Slovenian Army and when we talk about weapons, it does not seem reasonable for us, then every government should consider this at the referendum. Miha said very well earlier how they do it in Switzerland. If you decide to buy someone I don't know about 6 billion new jets, you go to a referendum, you ask people if you're going to war, then you pull it off, then it's going to be hard for anyone to object to you, but in this way, and with the situation we're living in now it's a complete absurdity, because we're literally talking about that because of the crisis and because of the foolish moves of the government we have holes not only in the budget, but also in the larger treasury states, and on the other hand you would still be throwing money to someone else. I think it will be necessary to start thinking a little differently and with priorities and these priorities will have to be with people. No one will challenge you, if you want to rebuild the barracks, this can be done, even without this special 780 million law, if you buy basic equipment for soldiers, clothing, some vehicles that can actually be used for civil protection and so on, but throwing away such sums of money for weapons, for something that actually has no other than military use, is really nonsense. So what we're proposing is that we go and ask people whether we agree on such purchases or not, and this can be done simply or in fact the easiest and fastest with the consultation referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić will discuss only Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u190	Thank you, Vice President. Good evening! In the SAB, we are particularly concerned about this three-time promotion of vehicles before the contract is even signed. Of course, that is why doubts arise about the transparency of this purchase. Clearly, we also have doubts about the rationality of the choice itself. We've certainly heard you say the price is constantly changing. Yes, but it only changes upwards, from 3 million 700 000 per vehicle, to 9 million 160 000 euros, and that is indeed the information we have received from the “municipal” sources. As a small country, we are certainly committed to purchasing equipment that is universally usable, so we mentioned the helicopter as one true example because it can be used in a prudent way. Even in Maribor, for example, we have problems transporting critical patients to Ljubljana. Other places have the same burning problems and it is likely that there is another choice, other than these armors, a much better option for us, for here and for some prediction of war, which is never known when it will, if and what it will be. Therefore, this equipment also has one problem, that is, when you send one number of soldiers with a plane, somewhere, to the other end of the world, and another, when it takes 45 armoured men, such as 38 tons, to be sent away. I don't know what that means, who would pay for it then, probably all together. Third, the experience of other countries is clear. You're familiar with the supply delays. You never know when it's coming, it doesn't fit into this financial framework, so we'll pay for it, and when they come, they'll come. They probably won't be when we have a war, if I illustrate or if we can pay them when the funds go out, because some crisis is likely to come in between, and then we'll probably have to raise some very expensive loans to buy this extension of membership between friends. It is clear that the military industry has the greatest profits and, of course, it is entirely fair to produce and search the market, but when it comes to these fighting vehicles in the desert, it is clear that they need to be sold somewhere, but we can and must ask ourselves why they are of no use to us. In the event of a war, this 8x8 is going to be electronically disabled, probably, and then it's just 38 tons of useless steel, after a piece, right, and then, I don't know who's going to be responsible for everything that's going on. We are without deserts, we will probably also have a problem when these vehicles are going to exercise because they will tear up asphalt, from Maribor to Ljubljana, for example, with their weight and even their way of “moving” [[?]] . So we really need to think about whether this is the right way. We have to buy something or that's it, that's it, I don't know. I'm going to illustrate another case. If I'm a neighbor to a farmer and he calls me to help pick up wheat, I'm not gonna be a combine buyer, right, but then, I'm helping, just like I have to, and I can't, but I'm not adjusting to spend everything I have and I don't have to help. It's just not a principle. Let me make a deal with this. These referee prices that the idea of a referendum is wrong because it does not solve our problem, our problems. [[…]] For the government, the referendum will be a little lunch, it won't be taken into account, it's consultative anyway, and so I don't think it makes any sense to frown on people, because if you ask people, they'll say the idea [[?]] at the final cost that this is absolutely inappropriate for us, for today and for the future. Moreover, a referendum would be properly conceived, whether we might buy planes for this same money for a new national airline, without having to, because we probably need it more. But of course it's not a topic for the Ministry of Defense. So once again, in the SAB referendum, we will not support the idea of a referendum, nor are we in favour of purchases in a manner as untransparent as they are presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word, and then Primoz Siter gets it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, Mr Vice President, the House of Respect. As stated by the colleague mag in the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Meira Hot, we will not support the initiative to call for an advisory referendum on the ratification of this agreement. The consultation referendum is not binding on the Government and the National Assembly. Even if the majority of voters in the referendum voted against the purchase of armoured vehicles, the ruling coalition would be able to adopt a law on the ratification of the agreement, allowing the purchase of planned 54 armoured boxers. And a few million euros for the referendum would go to waste. My colleague also pointed out that it does not seem appropriate for us to call a non-binding consultation referendum at the very end of the term of office of the National Assembly, when we are practically just ahead of the next regular parliamentary elections. It should be stressed, however, that the Social Democrats are aware that the Slovenian Armed Forces have suffered a greater financial deficit in the years of the financial and economic crisis and during the recovery of the consequences of the crisis. The financial resources were not sufficient and investment in personnel, equipment and development at some point stopped. However, other areas were also subject to financial cutting measures. Not just the defense department. It is true, however, that the State of Slovenia is not and does not today fulfil the promises and commitments it has made to international organisations in some other period. Let me say that we are the Social Democrats in the major change programme for the development decade until 2030, which is now a new start, which is a draft programme for the state elections on 24 April this year, and is expected to be adopted in the coming month, and a special chapter will also aim at updating the national security system and enhancing the defence capacity of the whole society. As a first step in this area, we have mentioned the provision of a stable source of funding that will allow for the further modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces capable of national defence and the fulfilment of Slovenia's international commitments, taking into account global movements. We have also advocated in the programme to improve the social security of soldiers and to obtain the necessary personnel for the purposes of the Slovenian Army and to develop a career system with a common and unified national human resources policy. That is why we have already supported the amendment of the Defence Act in this mandate and thus effectively ensured the adoption of this law. Social Democrats are a party with a long tradition. We are aware of our responsibilities for the further development of our society, and we will therefore, in this area as well, in the area of national security and defence, we will be guided by a state-of-the-art policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter. If there's any second left, she'll be discussing Natasha Sukič, or Mojca Škrnjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u194	Yes, thank you very much for your word, Chairman. Now, if you ask a random bystander on the street, what the government has signed in the last year and a half or two years, it will probably be a cross-section of all responses to corruption, confusion in the management of the epidemic, violation of legislation, distortion of legislation, so that the friends of economic crime are paid the most, attacks on the media, civil society, repression, recruitment and so on, and certainly one of these sub-titles will also be arms transactions, because this is not the first time that the Republic of Slovenia is going to engage in arms dealing that are traditionally the most globally vulnerable to corruption. I think that someone has calculated that 40% of all arms deals in the world are always corrupt and it is not the first time, or abroad, that the biggest commissions are devoted to those who make the business, by their own words, and it is not foreign that we go to Slovenia as well, let's look at the Patricia and her sister business. And now we have another situation here. In fact, here in the Ministry's title, how many armoured or 56 or 150 or 150 million, this number is essentially not relevant. In fact, it does not matter how many these Boxers will be purchased by the Republic of Slovenia. One armor needs the Republic of Slovenia just as much as it needs 100 — nothing at all. Why did we listen long and wide today? It is essential in all things that 412 million public money would be spent, which would have been the policy of this government [[sign for the end of the debate]] in the area of priority different, we can spend on housing policy, on some progressive tax policy, on my God, on climate policy; now we have seen how we operate as a society in crisis, but we do not know what comes with climate failure, strengthening public health, strengthening public education, and in any case opening up opportunities for direct democracy, respected colleagues and colleagues, what kind of democrats you are if you do not support [[sign for the end of the debate]] ideas about an enlarged democracy. Therefore, Mr Vice-President, I will, of course, support the call for citizens to decide on such purchases.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mojca Škrnjar has the word and will be discussed by Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Let me start again with the Latin saying, "You're a duck, a pair of bellums, "if you want peace, prepare war." We should not take this literally, but we can explain that if you want peace, you have to have the right weapons so that those who want to stick their fingers around the country don't even think about it. Security is a fundamental need and is one of the key functions of the country and this requires us also Article 124 of the Constitution to take care of security in the country. For the safety of citizens, people, in the first place, for the security of property and territory and we owe it to ourselves. As far as we are concerned about the specific threat, this particular threat is at the very border of the EU. We have Ukraine and we have a major conflict that is forecasting in this area and it doesn't matter what is happening near the EU. We also have Chinese military exercises and Iran's naive and romantically naive is the one who thinks it's a cough. Far from it. So something is a concrete threat, something is also a willingness. My colleague Monica Gregorčič said very nicely earlier, in the parable that you can't start building hospitals when people get sick and buy ambulances when people get sick. Mrs Gregorčič from the party specifically made her readiness very clear. The readiness is that you have things ready in case anything happens. Do not let anything happen, but we are ready to resolve the matter. We decided to join Slovenia and Slovenia in a referendum in the past decade, with 68.08% of voters voting to join NATO. And once again, I want to say to myself that NATO is not something outside of us. NATO, it's us. We're part of NATO. NATO has a unified command. His army consists of all the armies that make up NATO and we owe solidarity to each other. As other armies, then other countries, will protect us, so must we. Defence is also a domestic matter, internationalism obviously does not know the country, even less than the country. It serves Marxism, Communist, Leninistic Marxism, the ideology that has caused the most victims in the world besides Nazism and fascism and the worst tragedies. Humanizing, abolishing an individual, and it's a false dilemma or bread or a weapon. The fact is that no government has so far spent so much money on health investments, on nursing homes, on schools, on science. And they're also building apartments, they're preparing a law on the energy wolf, they're raising pensions, and kindergarten for the second and third kids is free. My colleague told me last time, see if you have another child and a third child in kindergarten and you can save 350 euros a month for him, which means you can take so much credit for an apartment and you can also afford investment. In Slovenia there have not been so many employees since we exist, so many jobs. Social transfers have not been reduced, they are normal, people get subsidies for rents, if they can't pay for it themselves, school meals are provided for all those, free of charge who can't pay it and saying that something is going to cost, sorry. I'm my mother and my children. I want my children to be safe. Also, for his grandchildren and those who have a family, he will understand that we simply want a safe environment for our families, for our offspring. That's what I want. If you don't have children, I understand, but at least you have nephews. But you have kids from friends, honey, you'll do something for them. Or will you say, it doesn't matter. I want a real country that will provide security and prosperity to my children and my grandchildren. And that's why I ask you to think about it, and let me finish again with the Latin saying, “Kill Bene, Abby Patria”, “Where good is, there is a country. And we're fine, we're fine now. I'm not saying that we can't be any better, but we need to work on the fact that no one in this country will be hungry or poor, but by giving up security we will not be richer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u197	Thank you, too. Mr. Micah Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. I have not heard anything about how buying armor is supposed to be the kind of thing that would provide people in this country with security in the light of the fact that we are not under military threat. But we're running out of apartments, homes of the elderly, health facilities are running out, and so on. Otherwise, I have applied as a proposal to respond to a new argument that I have not heard so far, which is about buying armor, obviously, as we have just heard, we are buying armoured men because "it's about children". We buy armor because we love our children. I mean, how low are you prepared to let NATO lawyers and foreign military industrial complexes go. Really, amazing. I also still do not understand what the conflict has to do with this purchase of armor in Ukraine. What does this have to do with anything other than, of course, if the assumption is that NATO and obviously Slovenian blood and Slovenian money and Slovenian rubber will go to war with the Russian Federation? Nevertheless, the argument of the conflict in Ukraine has nothing to do with the purchase of armoured personnel in Slovenia. By the way, we in Levica are firmly on the unacceptable position that for the NATO escapades in Ukraine, neither one Slovenian army nor one Slovenian cent nor one Slovenian vehicle nor on the front or in the back. The conflict in Ukraine is a result of a state office which has been heavily supported by the NATO Pact. Then it's the one that forces the Russian Federation and provokes conflict. The Russian Federation has been placed in the position of strategic defence for three decades now, because then, despite the promise of the break-up of the Soviet Union, it puts it to the west and surrounds it and I say it without any sympathy for the Putin regime, but the fact is that our allies in the Nato Pact are the ones who are now in Ukraine netting the conflict, and the dictatorship of our allies in the Nato Pact, because of their conflicts and their threats to global security, we have to spend even more on weapons that we don't need and buy their armory. [[Incomprehensible]] Please, these people would go to war with Russia in winter so much about their credibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Replica, Moja Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u200	You young man were not yet born when the war was for Slovenia, so you have no idea what fear is for your children when your fighter plane flies over Ljubljana, breaks through the sound wall. You have no idea what it's like to run to a shelter, and that's why you can make fun of this place and talk about armor and laugh. Excuse me, I speak for all the mothers we want for our children's safety. We felt safe at the time, because the territorials were after us on the battlefields, so... Because they also acquired weapons, without the weapons of Slovenia there would be no weapons. But you can make fun of everything here. One more thing, I'll say it one more time. Then it's us, we're in NATO, and then there's something out there that we're NATO.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Procedural Siter, then the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm asking you to scramble here. The colleague apparently attacked with clear discrimination at the age level due to the age factor. A colleague is a few years younger than she is, which does not disqualify him to take his political position on this debate and his political position is clear security is first and therefore as partners in the NATO Pact we cannot be those players on a world map that destabilise other families, that other mothers at other ends of the world with their children must flee to shelters. This is the role of the Slovenian Army and other armies in NATO's imperialist missions around the world. What else could it be to promote military conflict? I was alone at the time, if a colleague is now referring to this self-conquering war in the Reeds in the shelter. I've seen gunfire on a transmitter on the Godfather, but it's not a qualification that puts me on the seat of a Member, a respected colleague. Today we are talking about a very important city in Slovenia on an international map. In what way will we create our own place in the international community, and when we talk about home and patriotism, how will we allocate funds from the public treasury according to social needs. 8x8 shells of 412 million are not a social need at this point. But there is a need in the homes for the elderly, and there is a need to strengthen public health, public education, development and construction of non-profit housing. That's it. And now, if we find solutions here, if a colleague doesn't know how old you are, or if a colleague of Micah Kordish, who is 30 years old and something, comes up with good solutions, it's great and a good solution is on the table. Let's ask citizens and citizens what they think about 412 million for weapons and not housing. 412 million for armoured weapons and not for nursing homes, 412 million for armoured personnel and not for the development and strengthening of public education, public health, etc. Dear President, you cannot and must not allow such discrimination in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u203	Dear Member, I do not think this has been a procedural proposal and I respectfully ask that we respect, respectfully ask that we respect the Rules of Procedure and be respectful and also respect the 8th Article of our ethical code that we have. He's got Anja Bah Gibert on trial. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u204	Thank you very much for taking the floor. I ask, and as you have done so far, I call upon you to act in the future, to warn you immediately, but otherwise to take measures in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because what has now happened was no business manoeuvre. The fact is that in no way did colleague Mojca Škrinjar violate the Rules of Procedure, in no way, but her discussion differs significantly from that of colleagues on that side. But they've already crossed every line today. This is already the third point today where they are constantly violating the Rules of Procedure, only because they have too little time. But that's not our problem. That's their problem. However, they cannot, however, violate the procedural rules. Now, if they are an irresponsible policy as a policy of non-criminality, because their commitments mean nothing to them, then that is their problem. We, too, want to work in this Chamber and also in this National Assembly in a country-friendly and credible manner. And that's why I urge you to warn them when they break the Rules of Procedure as it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Procedurally Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u206	Thank you for your word, chairman. I am the proposer of this session, which means that I have 60 minutes running out of time, I haven't fully exhausted those 60 minutes, so it's very difficult to bear any obvious abuse of procedural proposals because I don't have any more time. Of course I have him as a proposalant, I had a lot of him, and I still have him. It's like the first one. It's the other way around. Comrade Siter made a completely corrected procedural proposal to protect the integrity of us in Levica. Because, like in the last hours of the day, it keeps falling for us. In this particular case, the situation was that Mrs Škrinjar was literally screaming at me that I had no idea. I mean, I'm sorry, this is not a credible parliamentary debate, this is not the way to talk and this is not the way to argue. And in such a case, of course, it is in place for the chairman to intervene, warn, say come on, come back to the darkness and talk to each other as people do not scream left, right.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u207	Thank you very much. It is true that, as a proposaler, otherwise now we have the technique, you have some time left, but you have also now applied for a procedural proposal and I call on you, Mr Member, not to be impatient, let me finish. So do I, I call you, let's be patient, let's not discredit anyone else if someone else thinks. That's why we're here. I'm going to say, a lot of people are watching us, and we're some kind of mirror of what's going on in our country, given that the technique has failed, I suggest a five-minute break, so we continue at 19.25. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 19.20 p.m.) (The sitting continued on 19.25)
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u208	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are continuing our debate. Reported debater is Joseph Horvat. I see he's not here. Next one's a mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u209	Thank you for your word. Look, the lies he told earlier, because it was a conscious lie, the proponent, are harmful to Slovenia and also very dangerous. And if time runs out now, I'll call in later to share the time to explain it in detail. By the way, whoever's hustling Slovenia against anyone deserves all the conviction. And Mr Kordish, you who are doing this must be aware that you are putting Slovenia in danger and that you are extremely harmful to Slovenia, to its development, to the security of Slovenia and in some way confirm the thesis that you can protect the country from anything, but only from the fifth column you cannot. [[sign for the end of the debate]] For you know well that I have already explained on the committee that I hope it will win a reasonable side in this case, and I have also repeated it here in the introduction. I told you that I see in the long term in the Russian allies, as he once did with Nate, as an associate member, and that there is, of course, another problem that is much bigger and that the Russians will be the first to face. That's why I see [[sign for the end of the debate]] Here is the possibility of cooperation and I hope to win reason. Not like you guys who are smokin'. This is a shame, this is offensive, and, of course, for Slovenia, I stress once again, very dangerous and very harmful.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Replica, Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u211	Thank you. Half-procedural, half-replication, and I'll start with procedural work. President, if Mr Grimes were to intercede there with such matters as if I were fighting a war and defending demilitarization, I'd be a fifth column. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u212	Your Honor, the Left has no more time and you can't have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u213	The proposer, not the Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u214	You said a replica. As your candidate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u215	I'm not letting some on-call fireman in there tell me I'm a fifth column. I want to fight a war while I advocate demilitarization policies. And the president, it is your job to intervene in such situations and, again, I must say the same thing, to protect our integrity. I mean, what do you say? Fifth Column. Fifth column before what? When you insult, measure, and obviously, together with NATO, you are rooting for a conflict in Ukraine, which would somehow involve purchasing armor for EUR 400 million. If I tell you what the fifth colonization is, that in the context of the health crisis, the housing crisis, the care crisis, the climate crisis, and what else we are throwing away the money people in this country need, the armory, 400 million of this, foreign military-industrial complex. If you want to bet on such grave terms as Fifth Columnage, here it is, Fifth Columnage, your fifth colonization. On behalf of foreign power centres, you sabotage the welfare of citizens and citizens. And that's why we want to go to the referendum. Let's get people to talk about it. Either they want 400 million money for armor or something. It's very simple. And we know that three quarters of the people share our position. They do not want us to spend our heavily loaded state budget on some weapon that we do not need at all or that you are sending between the lines to Ukraine to the border with Russia from the point of view of armed conflict. I mean, crazy, crazy. We don't even need war fighting, just like we don't need, we don't need armor. By the way, why the consultative referendum? We cannot give a subsequent legislative referendum due to the change in the Constitution, which makes it impossible to refer to international treaties. And this change in the Constitution has not been incorporated into our legal order for several years, even with the support of certain parties who do not sit on the right side of Parliament, and I have a great desire that we, on 24 April, for the democratic opposition, get a two-thirds majority, and remove this mistake from the past. At present, the referendum on the most difficult issues, important issues such as financial and foreign policy contracts, should not be held, which is not right. What people will say differently through direct democracy than how their own country, their homeland is placed in a global context, and how they work with our common resources.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u216	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the motioner, Miha Kordiš. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Urosh Lampret, the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Chairman. Allow me a few shorter responses to the allegations we had a chance to hear, and I'd go straight ahead. Regarding the social dialogue with firefighters of 18 meetings, they sat together for 80 hours, or I didn't sit at these meetings, and I got this information. I think they've come quite close to these views, that they've come a long way. 80 hours 18 meetings. So much for lack of dialogue. Now about Lithuania, she didn't get her own platforms. That's not true. That's not true. Lithuania has received most of the platforms, we have information about them, they would not be at a public meeting. They didn't get the works of these platforms. Now, what is the role of OCCAR? We don't buy anything from OCCAR. OCAR is an organization and OCCAR itself sells nothing. But once again, the decision on the platform as the most appropriate platform after decades of thinking profession, profession and also politics, including all political elites, was taken on the Boxers platform and on how to purchase the most transparent way of buying through OCCAR, 2017. And we're sticking to it. But what we did move forward, because of the reality, is we've limited this number to 45 vehicles. This is what we think is absolutely necessary and that we can do it. And it's not money for these vehicles, it's not extra to the law, but it's money within this law. And the law clearly defines the capacities that we will be building in the coming years. It is true, these vehicles are for combat use, and these vehicles are not dual-purpose vehicles. Every army also needs capabilities for combat use, because the military must also act in combat. And if the organization can't function in battle, then this organization is not an army. And every country on this continent, every sovereign independent state has defensive forces, and they are equipped as an army. Now, regarding the transparency of the purchases made. I can't imagine how I could move these plans more transparently and the framework we have. We have the law, we have the numbers, we have the dynamics. It's true, they were exposed to personnel, lack of personnel, it's true. That's right. He was a rash in the Slovenian Army in the last decade. They spoke after the company for a year, after the company for a year of soldiers we lost. A lot of efforts have been made to keep the rash and to strengthen our species and in the last two years I have been happy through a lot of effort, through a single entry and training system we have managed to reverse this trend and we have positive numbers. Only now, with regard to the security environment, are threats. This is an open session. Now, let me make this simple. Slovenia is as threatened as other European Union countries are at risk in today's environment. But they all arm themselves, all very worried about dynamics, all very concerned about the 60 battalion fighting groups at the borders of one of the European countries, which is not our ally. And all very concerned about the implications of the escalation of this crisis, which is likely. Which is likely. Now, at the Ministry of Defence we cannot be utopian idealists and believe in deep peace in the valley of peace. That's not our job. Our job is to try to be prepared for all kinds of scenarios, to preserve or defend our homeland. In the most meaningful and, of course, in the most rational way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u218	Thank you, too. Representative of proposalant Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u219	Thank you. I think that in this last intervention, by the Secretary of State, we have received a final confirmation that this government is not even under the belt to threaten and wave with a real existing war from Ukraine and therefore to justify the purchase of armoured personnel. Which is what this is really about, but they're under the line of commission. The commissions are more important to the government of Janez Janša than democracy and therefore do not want a referendum, so they want to buy armored 8x8 Boxer for 400 million euros. And not because Slovenia would be at any military risk in any way. Especially not because we would be pressured by a neighbouring country or another country from outside, such as the Russian Federation surrounding it, surrounded and provoked by the NATO Pact. Exactly the same allies who now want us to buy their weapons for their wars. No, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Sharing time, and you will be able to sign up, Mr Secretary. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I take it it's an interest. If you would also like to discuss the representative of proposalant Miha Kordiš and the representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case they will be given the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. The procedure is under way. Nine contestants reported, each getting five minutes. First up is Joseph Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u221	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. First of all, on behalf of this composition or on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I would like to apologize to the representatives of the Ministry of Defence, who have also been humiliated on several occasions in this debate. I see them as an eminent, excellent profession, but simply in this debate obviously the profession does not apply. Now the proposer is building a proposal for an advisory referendum on the assumption that every Slovenian voter perfectly understands the concept of battle wheels of vehicle 8x8 that he understands what Boxer is, that he knows what OCAR is and so on. Okay, well, the assumption is, I just need to find out that I see that even Members don't know exactly what Boxer is, what OCAR is, and so on. But anyway, which is crucial and encouraging, and I am very glad that the Left in this area remains lonely. Lonely Left. This was also seen on Friday or Monday by the Committee on Foreign Policy. You're saying three-quarters of people want a referendum or whatever. Three quarters, that's like saying 110% of people want this referendum. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember my cousin, the great general, Major General Gider, who is almost exactly four years ago, this is what he said on January 29, 2018: "Unless we take a timely systemic action, in 2020, this is before last year, or in 2021, this is last year, we will no longer have armies. He said that on the Defence Committee, then the Deputy, and later the Chief of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, Mr Alan Geder. At that time, the Major General poured pure wine on the readiness of the military, given the lack of interest of young people for the Slovenian Army. We could talk about this for a long time, but this government has taken these warnings and many other professional warnings very seriously and has acted. The Secretary of State has already talked about these things about what has happened in the field of human resources trends, the status of soldiers after 45 years of age and so on. At this point, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the content of the Law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army has been being abused for many months now, in the years 2021-2026. It's true about 780 million, that's true. [[?]] The law is written down, but the Slovenian Army, ladies and gentlemen, is a serious organisation. If you've ever heard of strategic planning, then you know what I'm talking about, and I'm talking about that this law actually brought an average of only an additional 50 million a year for these years. 50 million times 6 years is 300 million. That's right, a lot of money. But if we divide this into the last 10 years, maybe even 15 years, when there was little or no investment, then you see that this is a relatively small amount per year. I am pleased that this law I am talking about has also been confirmed by ministers, whom I am giving something to, especially former ministers, but especially Dr Ljubica Jelusic of Social Democrats and so on. I regret that a wrong dilemma — cannons or butter — is being established. It has to be both, ladies and gentlemen. So guns, you call cannons or health care, both of you. Now, I don't know if you've confirmed or not confirmed, I think you're, like, 2 billion euros for the next 10 years for health investments. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Cannons or culture, both must be. I hope you know that we have a record budget for culture. Cannons or kindergartens, primary schools, they both have to be. You know, we've provided about 140 million, after ten years, for kindergartens and elementary schools. Cannons or older, both of them, have to be. It's never been so much invested in nursing homes. Almost run out of builders, if I may say so. In 300 million, the funds are provided. [[sign for the end of the debate]] And so on. The cannons and the apartments, they both have to be. You won't believe it. We built our house ourselves with one salary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u222	Thank you very much. The word has a Mojca Boxer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Talking about Nate as a third party is inappropriate. We can't talk then he did it, one or the other, we can only talk to NATO, we did it, because decisions are taken together. The Slovenian army needs weapons. You can't just have soldiers to defend us with your bare hands. It's totally immoral, it's totally immoral. They can't protect themselves because they're not armed. That's impossible. I want a world without wars, without poverty, that's what we all want, and this government succeeds in ensuring both. Once again, it's a false dilemma about whether it's bread or weapons. There has never been so much money for investment in health care, for homes for the elderly, there has never been so much money for co-financing the construction of schools, kindergartens and science and culture have a record budget. The cost of a student's watch went up, just last week. Children have a public education and we are well-known and in one of the highest cities as regards the smallest inequalities. So, it's about everyone having the same, the same starting options as much as possible. I think that Slovenia has achieved something really hard to achieve with this government, which means prosperity, the path to prosperity in the least difference and the absence of poverty. Regardless of the fact that it is never so good that it could not be better, and that it is necessary to work for each individual to be warm, to be safe, and to eat, it is also necessary to take care of his safety. We can't say the government doesn't do that for prosperity. Right now, I think intergenerational centres in Posav have also opened up. Every day we hear about a new project, a new thing that serves our people. And so they're increasing student study places, we're going to get more doctors, they're going to study more students, they're going to become doctors, they're going to become more students, they're going to become programmers, and I think more than that is really hard to expect, but we expect even better from our government. It will not do us any good if we have all the prosperity and at the same time die of any attack. None of us imagined it, believe me, before I talked about young people who don't know, no offense was that, but you actually don't have that experience, some. None of us imagined having been attacked by JLA. And yet we were. And believe me, it wasn't easy. But you have to be prepared for anything that doesn't happen. And once again, if you want peace, you have to take care of your own safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Joseph Lenart has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u225	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all the guests from the Ministry and all the guests present. So, again, we have a proposal to call for an advisory referendum on the proposal of the Left Group. It is spoken against or opposed to this proposal for ratification of the Republic of Slovenia Agreement with the OCCAR or the Organisation for Cooperation in Joint Arms. The referendum question, as we have already heard, is too long and misleading, again manipulated by some numbers and, of course, in this way, even if such a referendum as has happened in some of the past, trying to scare our citizens, what is happening to them with this Slovenian army all. But there's nothing wrong with the Slovenian Army. Under this government, this Slovenian army finally gained its place as is right, and, of course, in the presentation of the government's position, the Secretary of State said that, of course, the government does not support it, because if the government supported it, it is against itself and against its own country of Slovenia. And so somehow we actually have some kind of, if I say so, clues that how much money is going to be wasted. 400 and over in millions of euros. And this moment in fact, the conclusion of such an agreement does not yet have direct financial implications. All of this is planned somehow to equip the Slovenian Army, but although this government has this moment of scissors and canvas, it is true that somehow the security and defence of the country cannot have what already, because these are low prices, because these are constitutional categories, together with our army, and even though this government has scissors and canvas this moment, it is what is being prepared, one such agreement, and then also further equipping the Slovenian Army and development has its kind of roots, its roots, namely in many documents called the medium-term defence programme of the Republic of Slovenia 2018 until 2023. Then the Resolution on the overall long-term programme of development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces up to 2025. Then there is another resolution on the general long-term programme of development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces up to 2035 and then back, which, of course, remained under the previous Government document. The White Paper on the Defence of the Republic of Slovenia 2020, in which somehow the Government and the Ministry define themselves also to this medium battalion fighting group, which is supposed to represent this core of our capacity, the modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces is the heart of the Slovenian Army and we are talking about this fighting group for 15 years, and now, finally, there is one city minister, that here is the real secretary of state, who says bob-bob, and we follow these plans that this government has not only made. Then, of course, the key building blocks or essential elements of this middle battalion battle group are these eight wheels or armored or, if we say so, weapons, which are actually without which there is no army. The other thing is that even in a military exercise in Slovenia or anywhere in the mission of course, the Slovenian Army cannot operate in 20 or 25 years of age-old armoured personnel, which is why the update takes place because it is necessary. Now somehow, if someone is unaware of the purpose of the defence, which is therefore somehow the basis of the defence of our Slovenian is to deter an attack on the country not only by fighting a defensive but by deterring an attack, if we have nothing, then there is also a much greater likelihood that something will happen to us in order for someone to come after us. Of course, the left has the right to a referendum, but I think it would be a short, succinct question to ask this of your three-quarters majority, if you have it or want the independent state of Slovenia and if you want the Slovenian Army and then if you have any questions about it, you will get positive answers, then we will stop being in state policy, but you will.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u226	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u227	Thank you so much for saying that. Good evening again. As I have already stressed in my first intervention, I think we have a very broad question ahead of us today, and this is a matter of other political priorities. Therefore, the priority on the one hand, as a policy, government policy at this point is either to resolve social pressures, the public health system, the school system of debate and so on or to allocate resources for weapons. That's one thing, so what are these priorities? On the other hand, we have the question of how does it work, what are the priorities in the functioning of decision-making in a democratic society? Does the current Government decide to accept things quietly, once for 56 vehicles the price of 207 million, 3.7 million per one, then 14 days or two months later 7.7 million per vehicle per silent vehicle in some quick emergency procedures past the referendums or whatever, or is this done differently with people? This is a double question that appears to me throughout this entire saga, which has lasted for several years or at least two years since the government of Janez Janša sits at the head of the state. The answers, of course, are simple. Here, however, I would like to thank some of my predecessors, Mr Horvath, for one very interesting assumption that you have made. You said that in Levica we assume that voters understand what Boxer is, which is the OCCAR, what international missions are and so on, this is some sort of semi-professional terminology. No one expects us all to understand everything from all fohos, but from several areas I guarantee you that the vast majority of people and people of Slovenia understand very well what it means to live below the poverty threshold of 260 thousand people, only 30,000 people plus in this issue from the time of the epidemic until now and understand what 412 million in this area would mean. People understand what 12,000 people are waiting for a city in an elderly home or 10,000 young families waiting for their housing opportunity. Thousands and thousands of young people who do not know what climate they will live in or will be able to live in. It's easy for us. We're 40, 50, 60, we'll still be here. What about a mule who's 15 years old now? And Lonely Levi, look, we had a similar action with the purchase of 780 million guns on the wallpaper before a good year ago, if I'm not mistaken, in a few days, the Lonely Levi on the street on the stand, despite the epidemic, joined 30 and several thousand people, Lonely Levi. So I think people understand very well what Boxer, OCCAR and all this professional military terminology means in the social context. At this point, however, I would like to thank my colleague Škrnjar, and I know that we very rarely, or if I think about it, we never agree, on a political issue, but I am delighted at one of my colleagues' statements, honourable Members and Members, who I think are at the heart of everything we are talking about today. My colleague says we make decisions together. And that's all we really want with the reference to the referendum in the Left Group. We want this assembly to hear the appeal of colleague Mojce Škrynjar and understand the basic dimensions of democratic social regulation and this is the decisions being taken together. And if decisions are so brutally important for the social situation, for the preservation of the social state, for the preservation of public health, infrastructure, development, etc., then it is so important that we take these decisions together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u228	Thank you, too. The word is from Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u229	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I'm already on the board, too, and I think on Monday, there was actually one of the main facts of this purchase of these Boxers, that's 100% and even more of the incentives or price hikes. In view of the fact that these military vehicles are constantly holding the price on the market, I do not know why such a price hike occurred during this period. However, this is another matter that is even more interesting that this matter has already begun to occur and to be accepted under the Cerari government or with the SMC or now, in particular, at the head. So, over the last seven years, or now in concrete terms, SMC has done quite a lot and a lot of confusion, and unfortunately also a lot of political damage and other things that are happening to us. And then the next thing we're talking about these vehicles is also this ecological aspect of, say, weapons, warfare, wars themselves, because, as far as I know, and as far as data is available on these professional portals, this focal war, these warfare hotspots cause a lot of environmental damage plus human casualties and everything else. And I don't think that in the future I don't know how you're going to prevent it in terms of this people, depending on how weapons or even in this case Boxers are being bought, given that these are still non-permanent vehicles, that these are military vehicles that are clearly told and indicated why they are being bought and used, and basically, if we look at it, even if we are a little, yes, I won't say naive, but that we are thinking in the future, the real future certainly isn't with weapons and it's not even in weapons and it's not even in wars. It is understandable that safety must be taken care of, but before we take up arms or even use it, we also need to teach people how and why this world and planet should make this world safer and more beautiful. And what is more interesting, as far as Minister Tonin is concerned, is that Mr Tonin has also challenged us when we came up with our 780 million weapons referendum proposal to support our proposal for a referendum, but it is not. And it's the same now, of course, and I wouldn't throw gloves at the Ministry like I would throw gloves at the minister. Because he is the one who is in charge, who must answer and who also assumes responsibility for all the purchases and solutions that are happening to us. And what's interesting again is that we have two NSI ministers, not from SDS, but from NSI, who have cooked this story about weapons, and also about these wolves, who should have been regulated long ago, or this regulation of the natural gas market, so that the possibility of heating for all is at least the same or only possible. And it is obvious that the NSI in this government is also the one who actually draws this government to this negative and also causes, in fact, the most harm. Unfortunately, look, there are two of your ministers who have caused the most damage or cause the most damage. And, of course, I want Minister Tonin to recover as soon as possible, because I know he has serious disease problems, but whenever he's been here on boards, or when he's at the meeting, he's actually his main problem, what they tell us a lot of times from the NSI, that we don't know each other in the military, that we don't know each other in tactics and that we never visit the military and all that. In fact, Mr Tonin has never been a soldier or a soldier, so I don't know, just the fact that we have a minister who has never actually had an intimate option is bizarre for Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u230	Thank you very much. The word has Natasha Sukić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u231	Thank you very much. You say Lonely Left. I'm not surprised that you don't test your military appetites at the referendum because you know well that you would be quite lonely after the end of the day when the results would be counted. Now look, hours and hours I listen to these things, here's these arguments that aren't. Look, I didn't hear anything, but I didn't hear anything about why 110 absent impressions in just a few years from one first price to today, why 110 percent stimulation, I mean in this business. Why? Can someone please explain that? I mean, in the end, the public has the right to know. I mean, 412 million or what, in a time of major crisis due to COVID, as a result of the social and economic crisis, at a time when food is being irritated, when it is being irritated by energy, it is completely unethical in this way to launch an initiative to buy some boxers with whom we defend our homeland. Where? Where do we defend our country with boxers? Or in the deserts or in some areas that are not suitable for Slovenia. Are we going to defend our country as we defended it in Afghanistan? From where we then got out nice and lost money, the lives of soldiers and so on. Is that it? Is that how you defend your country? Today, I hear unheard of allegations about the crisis in Ukraine, it is said that we would not have a problem or participate in this conflict if there was an escalation. Did you hear the Croatian President, Milanovic, what he said yesterday? In particular, he stated that if the situation in Ukraine escalated, he would withdraw Croatian soldiers from NATO's response forces. In particular, I quote, he said: “I read reports that NATO is increasing its presence and sending some reconnaissance ships. We don't have anything to do with it, and we don't want anything to do with it. That's what I guarantee. Not only will we not send our troops. If tensions increase, we will withdraw our troops until the last Croatian soldier." (Final reference) So Croatian president. The neighbouring Austria is a neurotic, neighbouring country. What are we? Are we more at risk than neighbouring Austria that we have to invest in a major economic and social and health crisis, an enormous amount of money, without in a transparent way, because we do not get an explanation of why 110% of these vehicles are being encouraged? Why? It's not little money. 200 or a few million or 400 million, sorry, but it's a big deal. And I really don't understand how you imagine that you're still making a statement about the crisis in Ukraine. [[Incomprehensible]] Firstly, colleague Škrnjar, Ukraine, namely the border between Russia and Ukraine is not the border of the European Union because Ukraine is not a member of the European Union. Secondly, Ukraine wants to become a member of NATO, who is happily jumping and flowers with guns, but do you know what that would mean? Do you, given that you know all about the past decades, realize why the Cuban crisis occurred when there was a great deal of cold war? Do you know why this happened? Because the Americans have installed their missile systems in Turkey and Italy, too close to Moscow, and Moscow has returned that [[?]] Established its systems in Cuba. That's why it came to this, respectable. And if he thinks today that you're singing him to install your systems, rockets, nuclears, at the border with Russia, then we're really nothing. [[sign for the end of the debate]] It doesn't say good, but then we'll really need, I mean, bunkers, but not these eight bikes, that we might even survive. And something else, let's wait, because you're doing a good job of creating climate damage, because because you're not investing in the green transition, you'd be investing in weapons, we'd be waiting 20 years for the desert to be in Slovenia, and then these Boxers would be working well on our turf. [[sign for the end of the debate]] And we can just defend our country here, so, but let's get them then, because if they're not old scrap metal then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u232	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u233	Yes, thank you. As for the referendums proposed on the Left, it is well seen in the referendum on the Income Law. There you started a bunch of demagogies when we said, okay, and let's go ask people together for a referendum, or they want a higher net to pay them what this law brings, but you went panic-stricken on the run, which is all demagogy and when it's done, then you squeeze it. When you talk about the referendum, you have to say that all these restrictions, which make you 30 thousand people fair and consciously impose this because you told them you would go to the referendum, and you know that such a referendum is impossible under the Slovenian Constitution, but such a Constitution is due to your request. Left-wing parties insisted on the restrictions of the referendum and, therefore, the text currently in the Constitution was accepted as a compromise. I have always defended myself, but I still advocate, the Swiss model of the referendum, where you cannot abuse it, as you do, because it is only abuse, the referendum, as a weapon of delaying proceedings in Parliament, because the procedure is completely separate, the people's decision really applies and the people have the first and last words and at the referendum you can give virtually everything, even under special conditions, only the Constitution. It's the Swiss model of the referendum. If we bear it consistently, I am always in favour of doing so. But I think the moment you figure out he can't be used as a weapon, you won't be interested in it anymore. Well, as far as the question is concerned, this potential conflict that we are witnessing these days. I have pointed out to myself several times that I hope he will overcome reason. You mentioned the Cuban crisis earlier. This is a fine proof that all the parties involved have the right time to pull back and prove maturity and, of course, responsibility for all mankind. And I hope, sincerely, that this time will be the same, especially because of the circumstances I have. [[Incomprehensible]] To potentially re-establish an alliance, including with Russia, because we will soon have a common, much bigger problem. And they'll be the first to face him if they haven't noticed. Now, with all the demagogies you've been using, it's hard to say all the points of demagogy, but one is really pretty. At least five times you mentioned how much you could build a home for the elderly with this money, which is now being dedicated to the Slovenian Army. Dear gentlemen, everything has to be done. I mean, what's the point of the story? You've had, like, a decade of left-wing governments. At last, Mr. Sharpe, it was your decision. How long did it take to build a home for the elderly in the time of the leftist governments? Zero. Zero. Nothing. Not one. What other language do I have to say this to you? But you're lying to yourself. But when you have to do it, you're nowhere to be found. But then it's all about money for all kinds of NGOs, and LGBT+ is about cultural brand-size, and the kubayagi culturers who smoke in front of parliament there, I don't know what else. For them, however, there are tens and tens and tens of millions of euros. Nothing for old people's homes. Nothing, ladies and gentlemen. That's what you're saying here today. Not only have we started projects at this time to build more than ten homes for the elderly, one of them in my congregation there when I run, Shenchur, a fantastic facility. Congratulations to the mayor and the government that has made this possible and, of course, we will complete them as soon as possible, including with European funds. But in addition to actually enabling the elderly to be worth, rich, the right age, as it should be, is true prosperity also in age, in the best possible way, we want to ensure security for them. Security which, of course, needs to be ensured in a timely manner, with prevention [[sign for the end of the debate]] Who's here today in front of us. And everything you have done here today in Levica is nothing but a single sea of demagogies or you have proved perfectly how correct that old Slovenian wisdom is. Where there's a lot of words, there's little sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u234	Thank you very much. The word is given by Uroš Lampret, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u235	Thank you very much, chairman. Now, allow me some explanations from the previous debate, as well as what we have just heard. Now, I need to be very clear about who's threatening anyone. I didn't say anything about us threatening anyone. That's not what I'm talking about. Threats. About the threats of the Republic of Slovenia or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. What I'm saying is, let me quote, is that things are very serious. That's clear. Things are very serious. And things can escalate. They're escalating. So much for an open session. And the consequences will be for everyone. For everything. On this continent. If that happens. And as a system, one of the key systems of this country, we must be prepared for all the consequences if they occur. I'm not talking about other things that are just as close to us. Not to mention in some way the instability in our immediate Western Balkans. Now, who's more at risk here? Austria was exposed. That's what I was talking about today. I agree, we are as threatened as neighbouring, neutral Austria. But let's see what Austria has in military equipment. Let's see what Austria has in military equipment. 56 Leopard 2 tanks, Leopard 2, 112 geese combat vehicles, 112, and so on and so on. What does Slovenia have with the main combat equipment? What does Slovenia have? Now, about Ukraine. We are not a member of a community of independent states or of a Shanghai organisation. We are a member of the European Union and a member of the Alliance. And our views on this are in line with those two of whom we are a member. [[Incomprehensible]] And the Department of Defense is defending it. If they were members of a community of independent states or of a Shanghai initiative, then they would probably have other, other guidelines. Now it's about the Secretary of Defense. I will not speak on behalf of the Minister of Defence I am not here because I am here as a representative of the Department but I agree the Minister of Defence is responsible and responsible for all things that happen, for all things also for many good things especially for the status of members of the Slovenian Army, especially for the status of members of the Slovenian Army. Let me get this straight. The assessment is that the Slovenian Army cannot afford another lost decade. The right case is placed from two parts of the frame and from the support. I've already talked about the frame, I've talked about the hard money, and we've talked about the financial resources, and there's been a lot of joint effort here with many political actors in this country. The other thing is equipment, military equipment for the Slovenian Army. Also, the assault rifle is not two dedicated equipment and there is no problem with assault rifles. Such major problems are with vehicles, which is also just military equipment. The Slovenian army needs more than we had in 91 years to carry out its 21st century tasks if we expect them to do what is expected of them to defend the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u236	Thank you very much. As the last one gets the word, the representative of proposalant Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u237	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'll respond to your previous comments. I will begin with the question of the assault rifles and the State Secretary's statement that we do not have a problem with the assault rifles, but that we only have a problem for armoured personnel. First of all, assault rifles don't cost 400 million euros. Second of all, assault rifles were trouble. Belgian F-2000 I think we had an affair with assault rifles and questions of their suitability or inadequacy. You're the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defense, and you might know that. That's the first one. It's the other way around. In fact, it is not the Slovenian Army but the Slovenian soldier. If it were any way to protect a Slovenian soldier, then would it protect him socially and what's going on? [[Incomprehensible]] Persecution of unionists. Desires to ban unions among soldiers. The story of how it is for a Slovenian soldier simply does not drink water as much as he does not drink water the story of how to ensure security through armored persons. Yesterday, an article and the position of the fire unions came that said you were ignoring them again in the social dialogue, no matter how many meetings you cut out and that you cut out of cooperation with the latest amendments to the Fire Act. It is so important for you to be safe that the firefighters who work in this country are really huge, cutting sides about their own sectoral legislation and bullying them. One of the previous discussions has also served the first with an argument that I have not heard before in support of why we have to buy armoured personnel, which is somehow a function of deterrence. He can ask again who the hell is going to attack us, please tell me. But Hungary, Italy, Austria, Croatia? All friendly countries. And Jansa, they're Orban in the first place. [[Incomprehensible]] Austria is even neutral everything else is in the NATO Pact. Even if the armors really help us, these armors, which are too wide and too heavy to move normally through the forested Slovenian terrain. 30 or more tons of our forest trains can't even bear it here, but you're selling us an armor for desert or semi-arid terrain as something to defend our country. Please, this is a military technique that is not bought for the defence of the country for foreign occupations in cooperation with the United States of America and under the NATO Pact. The question we are asking for a referendum is particularly clear. Why are we joining OCCAR? Not so we can talk about self - care and exchange home recipes about how to raise a better tomato, but larger salad heads. We join in throwing 400 and several million euros and buying 45 and 53 Boxer 8x8 armors in this context is entirely appropriate because the OCCAR association agreement is part of this process for purchasing armored equipment and nothing else. It is true that Levica, the entire opposition, has in fact recently often been acting as a procedural stopwatcher after the tool of the request for consultative referendums, which does not mean that all our requests for the referendum are such. This is precisely the case today, where we mean completely serious and not merely procedurally that people should be told about weapons purchases in the ballot box. We also tried a subsequent legislative referendum, collected 30,000 signatures at the peak of the epidemic in one week, and you banned this referendum because you were afraid of them because three quarters of the people strongly opposed their money, the money they paid taxes for, to fight for Nate's weapons. As far as the end is concerned, our actions in the opposition and in the homes of the elderly and all that. Look, the Left has never been to the government. What Mr Grimes here explains is how we were in power on the left-hand side of the mountain, and we did not have a left-wing government in the 1930s. We had central governments, we had right governments, and in the last two years we had a far right government, but we didn't have a left government. There was nothing to mention in Levica about the care of the homes of the elderly, their quality and the maintenance of the public system of the homes of older citizens. We have submitted no number of amendments to requests, however, to strengthen funding and to build new homes for older citizens, all of them against the wall. How many of these have you supported, Mr Grims, actions in the last eight years since we've been here? I talk so much from memory, [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] , zero but close only to that. But, of course, when it got stuck with the Government of Marjana Sarca, because it got stuck with the implementation of our policies among others, we broke up with stronger social states and the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u238	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal for a decision, we will decide that the calls for a consultative referendum on the adoption of the proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the OCCER joint arms cooperation organisation, on the management of the Boxer programme by the OCTER (MSSO), will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the Assembly in 15 minutes in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item and the 94th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 20 40 minutes. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 20.23.) (The sitting resumed at 20.40.)
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u239	Dear Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. The National Assembly will vote in the following order. 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th agenda items. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjournment of the agenda, this is the second reading of the proposal for a law amending the Labour Relations Act in the context of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 26 January 2022, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of PS Levica to Article 2. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As the amendment's proposal was not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. Excuse me, is there any explanation for the vote on behalf of the delegation? In my own name. Does anyone have one on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Mr. Koprivec, explanation of vote. In your own name, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Vice President. Very simple, at a time when we see that public health is actually on its knees, in the year when the health treasury actually dealt with a record deficit of 149 million euros and at a time when there are quiet or less quiet solutions towards the privatisation of health care, when waiting times are enormous and when 130 thousand people in Slovenia do not have a personal doctor because they cannot get it. At this time, respectable and respected, we are deciding on a proposal that will bring an additional EUR 100 million minus to the health treasury and will only burden employers. And it's all in a row. No math, no real reasons, no sense. Nothing will affect the position of the passers-by. Therefore, Your Honor, I cannot do anything but protect public health and vote against it because I do not want to violate the rights and because I do not want any longer waiting periods. And because for me the privatisation of health care was never the solution, but the denial of access to health services for most citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u241	Thank you, too. We're voting. 76 Members and Members present. The vote was 45, please 21. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the law has been passed. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda – this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled, which was published on the e-club on 26 January 2022. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 2. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 7 votes against 49. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Before the vote, Mr jedan wishes to explain his vote. Here you go. On behalf of the delegation? In my own name. Does anyone want to do it on behalf of the House of Representatives? No, no, no. The Lord of the Jews, in his own name, is your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u242	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Is the Slovenian public health system good right now? In fact, it is difficult to answer by saying that, because if a person is sick, he is no longer fully convinced that he will arrive at the necessary health care in time. Does today’s law make it easier for a patient to improve when a person is not in the first place? I'm afraid not. With today's law, we are only voting that if the law is passed, the pensioner, the employee and the unemployed young person will come to health care even harder from the public health treasury because the money will be even less. The money will be for the salaries of doctors, nurses, however the government negotiates. Plus 100, plus 200, plus 300 million health bills, but the money to buy health services is going to get smaller and smaller. Even for today's marriage. I will therefore vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u243	Thank you very much. An explanation of Micah Kordish's voice in his own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u244	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Slovenian health system is in crisis and has been in crisis since before the outbreak of covida-19. The main reason for this crisis can be found in 30 years of long-lasting trends after it has been torn apart, sold out and privatized, and in that it has never found adequate attention to the political establishment in order to give it funding, such as that of people, patients, patients in this country. Our public health care and its funding is organised under the auspices of the public health treasury with the official name of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. This collects the contributions of all citizens and citizens and invests them in the public health system in the form of salary coverage for the staff and the material needed to carry out its operations. The proposal we have on the table says that one of the duties of the Health Insurance Office will still be stepped up. This is an obligation to finance a hospital absence for people who are sick for a long time. At present, the regulation requires employers to cover their employees until the 30th day of absence, with this proposal cut to 20 days and the difference of 10 million euros on the shoulders of the public health sector. [[sign for the end of the debate]] or on the shoulders of all of us, the citizens and the citizens we pay. This is, of course, wrong, because the 100 millionth drop in this health register means so much less money for wages, for material, for equipment, for interventions, it also poses a danger for interventions into a health cart that could be found on the ground again to shrink. Of course for the policy of a solidarity society [[sign for the end of the debate]] Anti-Anchistic societies should do the opposite. Strengthen the public health system, shorten waiting periods, abolish supplementary insurance, and not drain the health treasury even more. So, I'm voting against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič, explanation of vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u246	Yes, of course, I cannot support this law in times of major health, economic and social crisis. When it is clearly demonstrated that the public health system should be strengthened, this law further torpedoes it by turning a hole into a public health treasury. Who's that really gonna help? Will this help the pensioners who will remain in longer rows of waiting? Which will have even less rights from the health cart? Pensioners who are in fact the largest users and users of health services? Is that really gonna help one-person p.s.? Self-employed in culture? Not at all, because most of the colds and viruses run out sooner than in 20 days, so these people will still work with heat and disease because they won't, because they won't have a hospital for the first 20 days. But once you're so sick that you have to be on sick leave for 20 days or more, those 10 days won't make much difference to these people. This law benefits only companies that are strong and who do not actually need this gift. Apparently, we've given various gifts to those who have the most in season, and that's one of these gifts. So I'm sure I'll tell stories like that. [[sign for the end of the debate]] I cannot participate and I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Of course, I will support this law myself, as I have also signed under the proposal. This law brings the most to self-employed, entrepreneurs and, above all, small craftsmen. I understand that we have cleared up the financial implications in the multi-hour debate, but I will make it clear again. Taking into account all the assumptions that have led the Institute of Health Insurance to the number 94 million, this, on the other hand, represents 400 million more revenues from the CFSP. 400 million euros more. Yes, the health department has problems and wages will cause us ten times more problems than this law. The proposal, which is on our table and which I will support, is a good one, is a small step in the right direction, of course, but most of the work on healthcare in the future awaits us and without a successful, stable economy, there is no social state. That's why I'm going to support this proposal. I'm going to say it again.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-26-SDZ8-Izredna-94.ana.u249	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 22. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda – Discussion of the Proposal for a Consultative Referendum on the Adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Organisation for Cooperation in Joint Arms (OCCAR) on the management of the Boxer programme by the OCCAR (MSOSSO). We decide on the following proposal for a decision: “A consultative referendum on the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Organisation for Cooperation in Joint Arms (OCCAR) on the management of the Boxer programme by the OCCAR (MSOSSO).” We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 42. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to five. Agenda item – Defence proposal for decisions on the appointment of the Vice-President of the Foreign Policy Committee. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the SAB Group for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling for mag in the Committee on Foreign Policy for the Vice-President. Branislav Rajic. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 94th meeting of the National Assembly.
