ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 99th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Igor Zorčič, Mag. Dejan Židan, Yuri Lepo, Janja Servant from 11 a.m. on, Nick Prebil from 16.30 p.m. on, Blaž Pavlin from 13 a.m. on, Tadej Suštar Zalar from 18 a.m., Iva Dimic from 15.30 p.m. on, Monica Gregorčič from 16 a.m. on, mag. Bojana Muršič from 15:00 on, Predrag Baković, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Marijan Pojbič from 16:00 on and Aljaž Kovacič. A representative of the Council of Justice was invited to the meeting on agenda 14 and representatives of the Government were invited to all agenda items. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 99th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 25 March 2022, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. Before we move to a decision on the agenda, we must decide on a decision to be taken by the College of the President of the National Assembly. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 134th meeting, on 25 March 2022 that the Proposal for an Law on Electronic Communications should be considered on an urgent basis. On the basis of the 10th paragraph of Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, 42 Members and Members with the first signed Branet Golubović requested that the National Assembly decide on that decision of the College. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are moving on to the request that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly to consider the Proposal for an Law on Electronic Communications (ZECOM-2, EPA 2628-VIII) following an urgent procedure. I give the text to the representative of the applicants or investors of the request to Jani Möderndorfer for presentation of the request.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u2	Hello! Why we must vote against the urgent procedure today. The reason is simple: because the Government is working unlawfully and because the Government has decided to force and in any way subjugate certain regulators in the country, who have been independent and independent at least until now by law and by other acts. Three main reasons why the urgency procedure should not be adopted today. The first reason, a violation of Articles 2, 22, 74 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, is a violation of the right to equal protection of rights, the right to entrepreneurship or the right to free economic initiative in view of the principle of proportionality of the rule of law. The unconstitutionality of content – in particular Articles 115 and 116 – has also been established by the Legislative and Legal Service, for the second time, not the first time. The second reason - interference with the independence and independence of the regulatory authority of AKOSA - is to empower operators to determine to the regulatory authority the content and scope of the obligation for the failure to justify the proposed reason for the discharge of the Director of AKOS. An intervention in the autonomy of AKOSA regarding the discharge of the Director was also found by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly for the second time, not the first time. Third reason: The breach of procedures and the failure to meet the technical notification obligations of the European Commission to the EU directives and the WTO and the TBT regulations is a failure to comply with the obligations regarding the notification of technical regulations. Very dry, but very essential. The point is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, despite the call of the European Commission, which in December called for the law to be duly regulated by the Government itself not to have done so. All of you remember that this law was dealt with in December following a regular procedure and that the law fell at first reading, which means that in the National Assembly we found that it was inadequate and inappropriate. This Government has decided to send the law practically identical to that of the re-negotiated debate, following an urgent procedure. It explains that, for reasons of security, these security concerns, of course, the illegality and respect of the rule of law and respect for EU law. If it is so urgent that we all know and understand that the implementation of these directives is also essential for the protection of our operators and normal operation and, last but not least, of the digital protection of the Republic of Slovenia, but the interference with the appointment of the director of the AKOSA agency is, of course, totally illegal and clearly speaks of their desire for this agency in a way that they will decide how and how it will be decided when this Government wishes to do so. [[Incomprehensible]] The fact is that it cannot be that changes in the time limits of market analyses can only be proposed by regulators themselves, nor does the operators in this law say exactly that the operators that the agency is supposed to supervise will in fact decide what the agency should do and how and how. It is totally ungovernable and discriminatory to those who have actually been granted the right to act as regulator and control, because it is crucial. Finally, let me mention that, in any event, this law will be illegal and unconstitutional, the European Commission has initiated or has already initiated proceedings before the European Court of Justice, which will and will in two cases have already decided and have recognized such conduct as completely illegal. The government has proposed that we decide on the legality and illegality of this moment only Members, and that is why it is only up to the Members of all of us to decide whether we will allow this unlawfully illegal, unconstitutional operation of this Government, which is in fact only one concern. To subjugate everything completely.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u3	Thank you very much. There is no discussion and no explanation for this request. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. I propose to the assembly that they decide on the following decision: “Proposal of the Law on Electronic Communications shall be subject to urgent procedure.” If no decision is taken, the draft law will be dealt with on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 42 votes against 31. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 31.]] The bill or proposal has been adopted. The decision is adopted and, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, that proposal will be dealt with by means of an urgent procedure, on Wednesday 6 April 2022. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that the National Assembly set the agenda as received by reference to the meeting. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 3. (For the vote was 51.)(against 3.) I take it the agenda has been adopted. We're moving to 14. PERIOD OF THE DAY – MANATIAN VOLUNTARY MATTERS. Under the point of view, we are moving to the examination of the motion for election to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Novi Gorica. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Dr. Nataša Valentinčič to the judicial office of the District Court, not to the District Court in Novi Gorica. Does the representative of the Council of Justice Vladimir Horvat wish to explain the proposal further? You don't want to. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? I don't see a wish. That's why we're closing this part. Would you like a word from the Member of Parliament and Members? Not at all. We're moving on to decision-making. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision, by which Dr. Nataš Valentinčič is elected to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Novi Gorica. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. (The vote was 68.)(Nobody.) I understand that the decision has been taken. Under point b, we are moving on to the consideration of the motion for election to a judicial office at the District Court in Trebnje. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of the Magi. Aleksandre Goršin is a judge of the District Court in Trebnje. Would you like a word in order to further explain the proposal, Mr Vladimir Horvat, President of the Council of Justice? You don't want to. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? I can see it's not a wish. Would you like a word from the Member of Parliament and Members? There's no interest either. We're moving on to decision-making. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision which elects mag to serve in the judicial capacity of the District Court in the District Court in Trebnje. Alexandra Gorshin. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. (The vote was 71.)(Nobody.) I understand that the decision has been taken. Under point c, we are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the election of judges of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana to decide in social disputes of the types of insured. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? I see you don't. Would you like a word from the Member of Parliament and Members? There is no interest in debate either. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election of judges of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana to decide in social disputes from the types of insured persons, for a period until the end of the term of office of judges elected by a decision on the election of judges of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana to decide on social disputes of 21 September 2020. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is attesting to the official clearance of the code of chamber and invalidity insurance. Officially consolidated text was prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: “A formal consolidated text of the law on pension and disability insurance shall be confirmed.” We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, that's a second-hand proposal for a law amending the law on the regulation of the market for works in the framework of a restricted procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of seven Members and first-signed Miho Kordis. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, Micha Kordiš. Here you go. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u4	I'll wait for the hall to calm down, chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u5	I'm asking for peace in the hall! My friend, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u6	President, thank you for your word. The pension system in Slovenia does not allow the most vulnerable people a safe age and does not protect them from poverty, although this is the basic reason why we have a public pension system. Pensions in Slovenia are low, too low. Nearly 300,000 pensioners and pensioners receive a pension of less than €700. One fifth, that is 97,000 pensioners and pensioners live on incomes lower than the poverty risk threshold, among them most women. Pensions all go through a steady fall. While the pension amounted to 87% of the net salary in 1992 it fell to only 57% in 2020. The key reason for low pensions is the low contributions of employers who have halved in 1996 and governments have since compensated for this generosity to capital by reducing pensions, reducing rights and tightening the conditions for retirement. At the same time, people are faced with the great irritations of basic living needs, especially food, where we are witnessing a rising price rise, but most are the living needs for which the poorest households, among them, are said to be poor pensioners, are spending almost half of their household budgets. In 2021, bread was spread by 9.4%, milk was raised by 7.1%, fresh fruit by 13.2%), vegetables by 6.6%, potatoes by 25%. The cost of housing, electricity, gas and other fuels increased by 8.6%, of which the rent was 17.9% and electricity and heating by 11.7%. All these costs, including supplementary health insurance, are paid by poor pensioners from their pockets. The result of low pensions and rising living costs is that today many pensioners and pensioners have to work to survive. And it's four and a half euros a hour. Shitty, miserable, embarrassing 4.2 euros. In order to be full, the coalition has recently adopted a law allowing the scope of the temporary and occasional work of pensioners to increase substantially without addressing the problem of low pay for the work done. Therefore, in Levica we propose to increase the shamefully low minimum hourly rate for the work of pensioners. More specifically, we propose that the minimum net payment of pensioners be equal to at least the minimum payment paid by students and students, which are valued at least EUR 5.21 per hour for their work or EUR 1 per hour more than the pensioners receive. In Levica, we have thus drawn up a law setting the minimum hourly rate for pensioners in a way that is equivalent in net amount to the minimum payment to which students are entitled. After all, both the student work via a travel agent and the work of pensioners in the temporary and temporary work institute, which is status-basedly comparable between two different groups, and then we came to the committee on which the coalition tabled and voted an amendment that does not equate the minimum payment of pensioners with the minimum student pay, but only fixes the item for 29 cents per 4,49 euro net, i.e. still 72 cents less than the minimum amount of students and students receive for their work. Of course, as socialists in Levi, we insist that pensioners and students who perform temporary and occasional work must be treated in the same manner and properly paid for it, so we have tabled an amendment that corrects the text of our law back to the original proposal. If we accept the amendment and the law of the Left, we will at least make sure that those pensioners who are forced to work behind the tape and to fill the shelves of various shops will be given a fairer rule for doing their jobs at their old age when they should actually enjoy a peaceful pension, and unfortunately this stepmother state does not allow them to do so, because they have to go along with pensions they cannot survive and then work on, even though they are retired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. For the presentation, I give the floor to President Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, as a working mother, considered the proposal for a law amending the Labour Market Regulation Act submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Miho Kordiš. However, the College of the President of the National Assembly confirmed the procedure. The representative of the proponents briefly presented a proposal for a law, as well as a representative of the Government, the Legal and Legal Service, from a legal and system-wide perspective, points out that it would be more appropriate to align gross hourly items in both types of work, since the payment of compulsory duties and contributions is a reflection of the different forms of work and the related different regulation of the situation of students and students and pensioners. Their representative said that they had no comments on the amendments tabled from the point of view of their competence. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, presented by their representative at the meeting of the Committee and supported the proposed amendment. The Commission considers that it is of primary importance to provide comparable pay for comparable work to be done at the appropriate level, in particular because of the increasing cost of living faced by individual vulnerable groups, including pensioners and students. The Committee was informed of the proposal of representative employers' organisations presented by the representative of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia at the Committee meeting. He said that in principle they did not oppose raising the minimum hourly rate for the temporary and occasional work of pensioners, but pointed out that the minimum hourly rate for temporary and occasional work should be fixed in gross and not net amount. The representative of the Pensioners' Union of Slovenia said they supported the proposed law, as they estimate that it would provide a decent payment for the temporary and occasional work of pensioners. In the discussion, the representative of the applicant stressed that, with a view to remedying injustice and in accordance with the political will expressed to eliminate this anomaly in the Levica Group, he proposed to raise the minimum time-limits for temporary or occasional work of pensioners and pensioners in such a way that the net remuneration is equivalent to the minimum wage for work received for temporary or occasional work by pupils and students. The proposed amendments do not support the law, as the minimum hourly rate for temporary and occasional work is fixed in gross rather than net amount. The representative of the Government pointed out that, due to the different tax burdens on the revenues of the two specific groups on the labour market, the net balance of those hourly items, according to their assessment from a systemic point of view, was not appropriate. Some discussers have advocated an amendment to the coalition, by which the hourly items for the work of students and pensioners are uniformed at a gross level, which is also proposed by the Government and which, in its opinion, has also been pointed out by the Legal and Legal Service from a legal point of view. It was pointed out that the article with the adoption of the amendment would remain open to any further harmonisation. The Committee voted on all articles of the draft law and adopted them. A further proposal has been prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u9	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mateja Ribič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members and honourable Members. The proposal for a law amending the Labour Market Regulation is prepared by the Group of Members and members of the Party of the Left, with the first signed by Miho Kordiš. After receiving the draft law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia examined the indications, indications and justifications of the proposed law and assessed that the proposal was not adequately prepared and justified, which is why it did not support it. The draft law was equivalent to the hourly rate for the hourly or occasional part of the pensioners with the hourly rate for the temporary or occasional part of the students and students in the net amount, in order to determine the hourly rate of 7.16 euros gross. At the same time, he also proposed an increase in annual income for temporary and occasional work to EUR 10 000 735 gross. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is already in its opinion of 8. 3. 2022 pointed out that the equalisation of the level of the hourly rate for the hour of the temporary or occasional part of the pensioners with the level of the hourly rate for the temporary or occasional part of the pupils and students was in principle supported, but not in the manner set out in the Proposal for a Law which provided for an equivalence at the net level, but supported an equalisation at the gross level. Due to the different tax burden on income from both types of work, the net amount of the two items mentioned above cannot be equalised. It would also refer to the various gross amounts of these revenues. Let me also point out that both hourly items are determined according to the amount of the minimum wage that is also fixed in the gross amount. These forms of work are also taxed differently, which further makes it difficult to balance on a net basis. The Government has pointed out that the leveling of both minimum hourly items would be more meaningful to determine the gross amount. The minimum hourly rate for the temporary and occasional part of students and students, lastly in line with the minimum wage, was set at €6.17 by order of the Minister responsible for work. The minimum hourly rate for the hour of the temporary and occasional part of the pensioners and at a gross rate of 5.77 euros. By aligning the two minimum hourly items at gross level, their level would remain the same in the coming years, in order to further align them with the minimum wage. The same share would also increase the maximum gross income for temporary or temporary work carried out for the calendar year 2022, from the current 8 000,639,07 euros gross to 9 000,237.96 euros gross. The Legislative and Legal Service shall also meet at the 75th urgent meeting of the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons of 9. 3. 2022 pointed out that, from a legal system point of view, it would be more appropriate to align gross hourly positions in both types of work, since the payment of compulsory duties and contributions reflects different forms of work and the different regulation of the situation of students and students and pensioners. At the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, amendments to Article 1 and 2 of the bill followed both the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service were also adopted. The adopted amendments to Article 1 are now equivalent at gross level to the amount of the hourly rate of the beneficiaries for the hour of the temporary or occasional part of the pensioners with the hourly rate for the temporary or occasional work of the pupils and students. The gross income threshold for temporary and occasional work is also increasing. Furthermore, the adoption of amendments to Article 2 provides for the establishment of a new gross hourly rate for the temporary or occasional work carried out by pensioners within 15 days of the entry into force of the law, while at the same time ensuring that for a transitional period until the new provision on the level of the hourly item and the amount of income for the temporary and occasional work carried out by pensioners remains valid until the date of the date of the gross hourly rate. The adopted amendments were abolished by the systemic and legal irregularity of the initial amendment of the law, which is why the Government supports the proposal in the amended form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u11	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the groups of Members is next. The position of the LMŠ Group will be presented by Andreja Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u12	President, representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the amendment to the Labour Market Regulation Act, which will make a fairer assessment of the work of one of the most vulnerable groups in our country. We are talking about raising the hourly rate for the temporary or occasional work of the pensioner in a way that will be equal to the level of the hourly item received for the work done by the students. At the LMŠ, we are pleased that the proposal of the law was unanimously supported on the home working body, but at the meeting it was once again shown that a particular parliamentary group on such important topics where we are all Members united and where there is no room for division into coalition and opposition, is triggering a populist circus about who first announced the introduction of the law. Such topics should unite us, not disunite us. While we have discussed the need to boost the hourly rate for the temporary or occasional work of pensioners, we have been discussing the need for a further discussion of the Law on Intervention Measures to Support the Labour Market, which increases the scope of the occasional and temporary work of pensioners. This intervention, however, opens up the possibility of social dumping in situations where the labour force, according to employers, is understated. If an intervention law coalition has taken a dangerous decision to increase the possibility of a poorly paid pensioner's work, it is also appropriate to provide a higher minimum hourly rate. According to the Statistics Office of the Republic of Slovenia, there were about 254,000 people living in our country in 2020 with income lower than the poverty risk threshold, including 97,000 pensioners, representing almost one fifth of all pensioners. They are therefore one of the groups facing poverty and it is these pensioners who are the most likely to opt for additional earnings, and they are also most affected by the current promotion of goods and services. In the LMŠ we are convinced that raising the hourly rate for temporary or occasional work of pensioners is essential. This is also supported by key stakeholders such as representative employers' organisations, from the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Employers' Association and Association of Crafts and Entrepreneurs of Slovenia. Also a union of pensioners of Slovenia, the State Council and others. We will also unanimously support the proposal in the LMŠ today and thus make it possible to pay more justly for pensioners who cannot survive their miserable pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u14	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues! Today's draft law, which will provide a higher payment for the temporary and occasional work of pensioners, will be supported by the Social Democrats. The bill removes an unfair difference in the evaluation of the temporary or occasional work of students and students and pensioners. The gross hourly rate for both forms of temporary or temporary work shall thus not be lower than the amount of the minimum wage calculated per hour of the average monthly full-time work obligation, taking into account that the average monthly full-time work obligation is 174 hours. This year, the minimum gross hourly rate for the occasional work of students and pensioners will be 6.17 euros. A large majority of pensioners decide to perform part-time work due to relatively low pensions. In February 2022, the average net retirement pension amounted to a good 804 euros. This is only €65 more than according to the latest figures, the monthly poverty threshold is €739. With additional income from part-time work, many pensioners thus provide themselves with a slightly higher standard of living than their pension allows. However, the possibility of additional earnings from occasional work for pensioners must not be a substitute for low pensions that do not guarantee the decent survival of pensioners. This is all the more important at ever-increasing energy and food prices faced by individual vulnerable groups, especially pensioners. Therefore, Slovenia, at the initiative of the Social Democrats a few years ago, set a minimum retirement pension for all those who have reached a full retirement age. Today, the minimum pension is €620 and is enjoyed by about 80,000 pensioners. On the other hand, almost 40,000 pensioners receive less than 500 euros in pension and 97 000 pensioners have a pension lower than the poverty risk threshold. Among them are particularly vulnerable retired women, whose numbers are growing rapidly. However, the problem of low pensions cannot be solved through partial interventions into the pension system, as this destroys the fairness of the system based on solidarity and paid contributions. The problem of low pensions should be addressed in elderly pensioners who are unable to perform even occasional work with greater accessibility to the protective allowance. However, young pensioners who feel capable of doing informal work should be provided with fair pay and adequate working conditions that enable them to be adequately involved in business processes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, good afternoon! After the Government substantially increased the amount of underpaid temporary and occasional part of pensioners in opposition to the Left, we proposed in Levica an increase in the shamefully low minimum hourly wage for the work of pensioners. Pensioners receive only 4.2 euros net for their work, which, given the significantly increased level of work allowed for pensioners this year, means increased exploitation of the plight of poor pensioners and additional social dumping. In Levica we therefore propose that the minimum payment of pensioners in net amount be equal at least to the minimum payment paid for their work by students and students; they receive 5.21 euros per hour or more for their work. Members of the coalition also agreed with this proposal, as well as representatives of employers who were present in the preliminary consideration of this proposal in the National Assembly and the Council of State. That is why we were finally disappointed in Levica that the coalition on the committee tabled and voted an amendment, which does not equate the minimum payment of pensioners with the minimum student payment, but only fixes it for 29 cents, i.e. 4,49 euros net, which is still 72 cents per hour less than students and students receive for their work. We insist in Levica that pensioners and students who perform temporary and occasional work should be treated equally and paid for their work. In Levika we therefore propose an amendment that corrects the text of our law back to the original proposal. The proposal for the equalisation of hourly items was supported by the Committee and at the hearing in the State Council, both in the Union of Pensioners of Slovenia, where it was clear that pensioners are paying for living expenses, bills, supplementary health insurance, food and other, from their net earnings, so it is essential that the payment be equal in the way that the pensioner and the student receive the same payment for the work done in their pocket. With the amendment we have tabled, we therefore demand fair treatment of both groups of workers. In particular, we put the members of the National Assembly before a decision or should the pensioners receive 72 cents less than the students or receive the same for their work. That's the only question. We ask you why the work of pensioners according to the coalition is worth at least 4.49 euros and the work of students is 5.21. Why would we maintain this discrimination if we could eliminate it today? So why do pensioners have to earn less for the same job? I therefore expect you, honourable Members and Members of the Coalition, to support our amendment in the debate and in the vote. The same is expected of pensioners – of course, those who have to do this kind of work because of their poor pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar Zalar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u18	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we are considering amending the Labour Market Regulation Act. It is proposed to align the hourly positions of the student work and the occasional and temporary work of the pensioners. In the coalition, we proposed that the amendment be set at €6.17 gross. In this context, we have also proposed an increase in the maximum gross income for temporary or occasional work of pensioners for 2022 at 9 000 237.96 euros. Student work and temporary or occasional work of pensioners are taxed differently, so it is not appropriate to align the net hourly rate, but rather to equalise the gross amount. That is why we have adopted amendments that correct the situation and equalize the competitiveness of the student and temporary or occasional work of pensioners. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats, we have already repeatedly highlighted the alignment of hourly items on the Committee on Labour. Just before our introduction of amendments to the Labour Market Regulation Act, which would regulate, among other things, the levelling of time items, we received in the National Assembly a proposal from another proposer with the same content. Since we want good solutions to be adopted in our party, we are not looking at the proposer, but we are focusing on the solutions that laws change. Since this change is in line with our programme, the Members of New Slovenia – the Christian Democrats – will unanimously support it. We will, however, oppose the amendment, which amounts to a net hourly item, placing one group in a less competitive position than the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović would like to present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u20	President, thank you for your word. Respectable. Occasionally and temporarily working for pensioners enables them to re-enter the labour market, thus maintaining social and individual participation and also contributing to the growth of the added value of society as a whole and also complementing their personal budget. Temporary or occasional work shall be carried out on the basis of a civil contract relationship between the employer and the beneficiary. A law has recently been passed in the National Assembly which allows pensioners to increase the amount of occasional and temporary work. The measure is up-to-date as re-activation of former employees in individual employers who are already qualified to work and who can get the fastest involved in the work process makes it possible to work better. In fact, they are familiar with the process and are carrying out work on the basis of the institute in question. This will allow pensioners to work up to 90 hours a month and a thousand hours a year. The fact is that more and more pensioners are thinking about more active life and re-engaging in society and the environment and consequently re-entering the labour market. The number of pensioners who opted for such a form of earnings soared before the epidemic hit our lives gravely, so in the SAB we advocate that pensioners be able to work without restrictions. This is how we recognize their potential for contributions from the company they have already given and can give it to, and we have always advocated in the SAB to make life easier for them. At the time of adoption of this measure, it was also necessary to increase the working hours at the new legal level. In order to achieve a higher quota with an unaltered annual earnings limit, the amount of the item would be lower than the current one. The amendment to the Labour Market Regulation Act with a view to ensuring a decent payment for the work done is thus a response to these concerns. Proposal to eliminate an anomaly in the area of minimum pay for work or unfair differences in the evaluation of the temporary and occasional work of students, students and pensioners. In the SAB, we certainly support and support the proposal, and we ourselves advocate that post-retirement work will no longer be limited and banned at the same time must be properly paid, as this gives many people life energy and again others the resources needed for normal survival. The measures that we have always taken in the SAB are from increasing the pension calculation rate to allow pensioners to have free cross-border affairs that help them, but let us also help them in this direction when they involve themselves against work and contribute to the work that we now have the lack of workers contribute to society and thus actually makes a person feel useful and even self-satisfaction. [[Incomprehensible]] The pensioners are not to forget our wealth of experience and knowledge. But their efforts have given us everything we have. We will certainly support this promotion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group specifically. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present. The occasional work of pensioners has already undergone an important change in the Labour Market Support Action Act at the end of February. This law has already increased the permitted amount of temporary or occasional work of pensioners from 60 to 90 hours per month for this year. On the basis of this change, pensioners may also work 120 hours a month, but not more than three times a year. However, a employer who employs more than 4 thousand workers may be given a maximum of 7 000 500 hours of occasional work. This law addressed labour shortages due to high numbers in hospital absences and quarantines. In recent years, pensioners have shown a high level of readiness to deal with the human resources crisis due to the consequences of Covid-19’s disease, both to health care and to education and social protection. Special thanks goes to the social group, which for decades co-created the Slovenian society and demonstrated its unselfishness also during the time of dealing with the consequences of the new crown of the virus. It is right that the value of the hourly item of the occasional work of the pensioners is equivalent to the hourly item of the occasional work of the pupils and students. Today, we are deciding on the amendment of the labour market regulation law by which we guarantee this equivalence. The proposal initially envisaged that the minimum hourly pensioner's pension for the part-time period of the part-time period should be set at 7.16 euros. In parallel, income for occasional work in the calendar year should not exceed EUR 10 000 735. In view of the various tax burdens on the income of pensioners and students on the labour market, we have been reminded by the Government, the Legislative and Legal Service and representative employers' organisations, we have slightly changed the proposed levelling of the hourly items, which provided for an equalisation in net amounts. The benefit from the occasional part of pensioners is 25%. At the same time, 18% of the students are part of the part-time work. The additional difference is also in the contribution to pension and disability insurance, which, unlike pensioners, pupils and students, if not included on another legal basis, are paid at 15,5 %. The pensioners do not pay for this contribution. Students and students also pay a contribution to insurance for injuries at work and occupational diseases, which is set at 0.52 %. The pensioners are subject to a flat-rate amount, which currently amounts to EUR 10. For this reason, we decided, on the parent committee of the Coalition Group, to submit a supplement with a view to aligning the hourly items in gross amounts. Thus, the gross hourly rate of the pension for the part-time work performed shall not be lower than the amount of the minimum wage converted into hourly work of the average monthly full-time work obligation, with an average monthly full-time duty of 174 hours. Gross income for occasional work in the calendar year will not exceed EUR 9 000 237.96. The gross hourly rate and gross income for the occasional work of pensioners will be aligned with the minimum wage. However, the gross hourly rate will apply from March of the current calendar year until including February of the following calendar year. In particular, we will support the amendment to the Labour Market Regulation Act in the Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! At the 95th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, we confirmed the Law on Intervention Measures to Support the Labour Market, which aimed to mitigate the consequences of the loss of labour due to large-scale hospital absences and the absence of quarantines for employees due to an epidemic of kavid. Thus, the pensioners were given the opportunity to work more than 30 hours longer than before. Employers, however, are able to hire more older people who can and want to work and thus earn an additional euro. At that time, there was also a debate on the urgent need to raise the hourly rate of this form of work, as the payment of a gross amount of EUR 5.5, as was the limit of up to 1. 3. 2021 to 28. 2. 2022 is truly miserable, especially compared to the lowest item received by students and students. At the beginning of this month, the value of the hour on the basis of an order on the amount of the hourly item in the amount of income to perform the temporary or occasional work of pensioners signed by the Minister responsible for the work was indeed raised, but this was a gross amount for 27 cents. In practice, the temporary or occasional work of pensioners is shown to be effective, since already vulnerable groups of pensioners are allowed to re-engage in the working environment and additional earnings without such work affecting the amount of the pension. But it's got to be worth it to get that word. The proposal for this law will further raise this benefit, even though it has already been adopted annually, in accordance with the provisions of the law. According to the proposal for an amended bill, the hourly item will be linked to the minimum wage and thus this year should not be less than 6.17 euros, we are talking about 5,21 euros in net amount. The annual earnings quota will be limited to EUR 9,237. The salary for the work of pensioners and the work of students is equivalent. The wisdom and experience of the elderly and youth are the values of our society, so let us also continue to foster intergenerational solidarity. The draft law will be unanimously supported by Members of the Desus Group. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u26	Nice greeting, chairman! Nice greeting to all present in the hall! A new prop. Managing the labour market is an increasingly pressing topic where no one is finally satisfied. Each Slovenian would like to get as much salary as possible for his work in the field, in an account, of course, but in practice it is not always so. The primary duty of students and students is to study, study and complete exams within a regular period. That is why state scholarships are available for those with lower economic social status, staff and Zios scholarships. Most students and students want to be independent, so when they study regularly, they find work to earn a little bit more. Those who study extracurricularly also have high costs by study alone, if they do not work regularly, so that they get more money than they can afford. The clocks are set as they are, and they go slowly with the years up depending on the nature of the work. As far as pensioners are concerned, this is the next thing. Those who have worked physically over 40 years of age and who are physically burned can hardly wait to retire, but they are also those who do significantly easier jobs, including office work, where intellectually very difficult work is also required. People have different plans when they retire, some deal with vineyards, gardens, fields, some do extra work to earn some euro more, given that they usually have miserable low pensions. After all, it is important that these anomalies somehow be removed or softened. The latter will affect the satisfaction of our students, students and pensioners. In the Slovenian National Party, we are inclined to pursue the aim of ensuring a decent payment for the work done. We support the fact that the social situation of our pensioners and pensioners serving the Institute of Temporary or Occasional Work will be improved in particular. The law also follows the principle of fairness and equal treatment and the constitutional principle of equality before the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u28	Thank you so much again for saying that. Article 27 of the current Labour Market Regulation Act, which we now have before us, provides that the hourly rate of the beneficiary of the temporary or occasional work of pensioners shall not be lower than EUR 4.20 and that his income in the calendar year shall not exceed EUR 6 000 300. It is further specified, for the first time, that the level of the hourly item is aligned with the growth of the minimum wage in the Republic of Slovenia under the Minimum Wages Act. And a second time. That the amount of the hourly item and the maximum annual amount allowed shall be determined once a year by the Minister of Labour and Height in the Official Journal by the end of February of the calendar year at the latest. By order on the amount of the hourly item and the amount of income for the temporary or temporary work of pensioners, the uranium item for the period from March 2021 to February 2022 was fixed at 5.5 euros and the maximum amount for the calendar year was set at 8 thousand 235.53 euros. It is necessary to know that students and students thus receive at least 5.21 euros net following the current regulation, while pensioners receive only 1.21 euros net per hour of work. In the SDS, we believe that there is no reason to distinguish between student work and the work of pensioners. In doing so, we stress that the alignment of the hourly items is meaningful and fair at a gross level rather than as originally proposed by the proposer at the net level. Student work and the work of pensioners are taxed differently and contributions vary. The benefit for the occasional and temporary part of the pensioners is 25% and 18% for the temporary and occasional part of the students. Contributions for pension and disability insurance for pupils and students, if not included on a second legal basis, shall be paid at an amount of 15.5% and the pensioners shall not pay it. The contribution for occupational and occupational injury insurance is 0.52 % for pupils and students and is currently set at a flat rate of €10 for pensioners. since the amended bill takes into account what we have proposed in the coalition's parliamentary groups, we support this law in the SDS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. We are moving on to the debate on the Article and the amendment tabled to be carried out in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Common Chamber of Members. Anybody want a word? Just do it, Sitter. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President! Now, the pension system in Slovenia or so I will say, poverty in Slovenia is the most pressing problem in pensioners, so it is kind of sad that we have to talk about the work of pensioners at all, but it is part of some reality and what we have to do. Now I understand, because in previous discussions, I have answered this subject several times, too, the findings that have come to me from the other side, we have pensioners who want to work. Yes, I understand, we have pensioners who want to work, who want to stay active, and for such or other reasons in either the company they created or in which the ladies worked or for any other reason, but let us not close our eyes to the fact that most pensioners who do work do not enjoy a full pension in order to say that they do so in order to pay the bills. He's doing this to bring together the beginning and the end of the month so he can survive. And now, the pension system in Slovenia is built in a way or living in a way that the poorest, the most vulnerable, does not allow a safe age, because after decades of working and contributing to the community somehow it is made in a way that does not protect them from poverty. Some statistics are worth serving here because for statistics people and life stories of pensioners and pensioners almost 300,000 pensioners and pensioners in Slovenia receive a pension of less than €700. 300 grand. Five, 97 thousand pensioners and pensioners live on incomes that are lower than the threshold of poverty risk, so not on the threshold of poverty risk, where you can survive where you live modestly, but you can survive, but under this threshold, so below the threshold of at least survival. Of course, here are the women's greatest victims. And pensions keep falling. While the pension amounted to 78% of the net salary in 1992, the pre-retirement pension fell to 57% of the salary. The key reason for this – and in Levica we are constantly stressing this and trying to present to the National Assembly in a way that we can understand most of the problem – is the fact that the low contributions of employers are mainly blamed for low pensions. In 1996, they halved, which, of course, was a disaster for the pension fund, and since then, governments have not actually taken any steps in this area, and this generosity, as we said earlier in the position, has compensated for generosity to capital by reducing pensions, by reducing rights and so on, by tightening the conditions for retirement and so on, in short, all at the expense of pensioners and pensioners. All that can be signed today by these terrible numbers, which I have initially mentioned, are 300,000 pensioners living with pensions below €700, and 97,000 pensioners and pensioners living below the poverty line – politics is to blame. And now the current thing, so, the current situation. With the epidemic impact on the economy and with the current Russian-Ukrainian war, we are witnessing the brutal, record-breaking inflation of living costs, the stimulation of survival, especially food, where we are witnessing the highest price rise. Those living needs, for which the poorest households, including poor pensioners, are at risk, are the most or more than half of their family budgets. And now we have this cramp right here. Of course, this situation, a description of this situation, answers the question of why we are even talking about the work of pensioners. Why, as some European, civilised society, we cannot help any pensioner who has contributed 40 or plus-minus years to the construction of the community, to the construction of this country, to the construction of taxes, to work, to live himself, to his family and to the community through the payment of taxes, we cannot allow him to simply sit and enjoy a safe age. And we're talking about these people today. And these people in answer to this question choose the only thing available to them – because they have nothing, they only have their hands, they only have their heads, they only have their jobs. And now we're talking about pensioners who in stores are filling shelves that work on gas pumps that help in libraries that do this kind of work or something. And besides, they're paid even less for the same job than students and students paid. And this is also a call from the leftist Group, essentially a call for some kind of general justice, no. If we already have pensioners who, in order to survive, have to work for a miserable payment, which is 4 and a few euros or 5 and a few euros - here we all agree that this is a poor pay for work - we can agree quickly at least in the fact that their work needs to be evaluated with dignity or justice. In Levica, with this law that we have on the table today, we have proposed that the minimum payment to pensioners in net amount be equal to at least the minimum payment that students and students receive for their work, which is 5.21 euros for their work, which is more than an hour. And we were a little sad, well, in the debate so far, that members of the coalition were not in the final stage inclined to this idea at the vote, although during the debate they had only shown some understanding to solve this problem in such a way and then agreed to their idea. In Levi, we insist that the work of retired workers and students and students of workers should be balanced or evaluated fairly. Everyone faces the same problems, all of them have to spend most of their costs on food, heating and so on. And we are talking about change, and I think that it should not be difficult here to find some consensus between Members and Members and the work of pensioners to evaluate as coming together or at least fairly at the level that students receive. I now expect at least, as I mentioned in my position in the introduction, that at least this minimum step of the Member and Members will be supported by this amendment, which calls for the equalisation of the net payment for the students and pensioners of the workers in the vote. In fact, the pensioners expect you to do the same. Here pension organisations have engaged and supported this proposal, so that pensioners expect the same from you. Have 300,000 pensioners and pensioners living with less than 700 euros in wages in front of you. This is hard to imagine for a person with a salary, but a crowd of these people, that is 15% of the population of Slovenia, exists, 100,000 almost those who live below the poverty line. And these are people who, because of their miserable pensions, because of the miserable reality they've been investing in for 40 years and now have nothing to do with it, doing this kind of work that we're talking about. Today we are essentially talking about the most basic, truly basic element of the social state and civilised society, if you want, that is fair pay and at least approximate minimum social security for those who have built our society. That is why I propose and call and expect Members and Members of Parliament to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see there is no desire to discuss it, so I conclude it. The amendment will be decided on Wednesday, 6 April 2022, or Thursday, 7 April 2022, as part of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE LEGISLATIVE PROTECTION AND SOCIAL COMPETITION LEGISLATION LAW IN THE context of the reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of seven Members with first-signed Joseph Horvat. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Alexander Reberšk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members. With the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, we are implementing the programme of New Slovenia. We support families, support people with special needs and ensure the social inclusion of children. For us, family is the center and foundation of society. We want to create a society that is friendly to families and in which all children are welcome. Families ensure the future of the nation and society, so the country is obliged to support them. We want to encourage young people to create families. They need opportunities so that they can fulfill their wishes for the family. We want to support pregnant women and promote joy in life. We want to ensure conditions in which parents can combine their professional and family lives. We're sure family work is a social service. Child rearing and caring for the loved ones deserve social respect. This must also be expressed in social security rights. The Law on Parental Protection and Family Receipts Brings Four News. An additional leave for the father, a total of 75 non-transferable days of leave for the father, is an additional 45 compared to the current legislation. Father spends 15 days up to 3 months of age and 60 days up to 8 years of age. The number of benefits of the mother remains unchanged. In Novi Slovenija we want to be as involved in the upbringing of the child as possible and the father is said to be both parents. We propose that both parents can benefit from the right to a shorter working time after a new one at a time of 20 hours a week. Like one of the parents for 10 hours and the other for 10 hours. Current legislation allows that only one parent can work with shorter working hours. Kids are our future. Those who decide on children and take this responsibility will be most likely to contribute to the future of our community, society and countries. This deserves special respect and support from the State. Family policy measures must be sustainable and coordinated in all areas from tax to family benefits, education and education, health care, housing policies, care for older family members. Special care in this Government is given to children with special needs. We have raised compensation for lost income, and we have set up a working group at the time of the crown, and we have not forgotten about them. We also bring greater flexibility in this law for parents of children with special needs. For children with special needs who spend part of the year in work establishments, we increase the partial payment for lost income. The right to partial payment for partial income may be exercised until now only 10 hours a week if the child stays at home for at least 90 days. However, if there is more at home, we want to provide more resources for our parents because there is a greater need. In Nova Slovenija we propose that if a child stays at home 180 days a year, his right will be increased to 20 hours a week, but if he stays at home 270 days, this right will be increased by 30 hours a week. Education is more than just knowledge. Education not only means learning but also understanding. The task of education and education is to teach our children the values of our society and enable them to grow up later on their feet. In New Slovenia, we want all children to finish primary school and continue to attend secondary school with the aim of encouraging children to attend primary school to introduce automaticism, so that children's allowance is given instead of money in nature, payment of bills, clothes, meals, if the student is not attending school for unjustified reasons. On the Committee on Labour, we have adopted an amendment to introduce this as a last resort on the basis of the decision of the Education and Sports Inspectorate. Even if the child does not continue in secondary school after completion of primary school, the amount of the child allowance shall be reduced by one third. We are talking about really extreme measures, but they do not apply to students with special needs. I am pleased that the proposal for a law on the Committee on Labour was adopted from 7 to 2. However, I thank all those who will also recognize the good solutions that this law brings and, of course, you will also support in today's session.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Tadeji Šuštar Zalar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u34	The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, as a working mother, considered the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, which was submitted by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Joseph Horvat to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. The National Assembly, however, confirmed the decision of the College. The Committee was provided with a number of materials and amendments tabled, which were adopted by the Committee at the end of the discussion. The representative of the proposers presented a proposal for a law. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities said that the Ministry supports the bill's proposal because it contains many positive solutions in terms of facilitating, harmonising family and professional life. The legislative and legal service examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. Among other things, she pointed out that the explanation of the bill was flawed, that references were not adapted in certain articles, which would lead to internal inconsistencies in the provisions. The proposed solutions in some places summarise the already established provisions of the law, which is why such an approach is not appropriate. It also made specific comments to a certain article. At the meeting of the Committee, she said that the amendments tabled followed their opinion merely by nomotenically and the content concerns remained. In particular, it highlighted the constitutional consistency of unequal treatment of children in relation to age, the principle of equal treatment of parents, pupils and the integration of personal data sets. The Committee received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, presented by their representative at the meeting of the Committee and supported the proposed amendment. Notwithstanding the fact that the increase in the number of days of parental or paternity leave may have a positive impact on family life and the coordination of work and family life and the degree of birth in the country, the discussion also highlighted the potential negative consequences of those measures, the organisation of the work process. The debate on the non-meeting of the Commission also made it very clear that a wide range of open issues regarding the current bill should be resolved between the social partners. The Committee was informed of the comments of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, which, inter alia, point out the lack of social dialogue and the recommendations of the Advocate for Equality, recommending a justification for the provisions relating to the transposition of the Directive and the analysis of the reasons for the unjustified absences of pupils and an analysis of the effects of the proposed amendments on equality, equal opportunities and equal treatment. The debate highlighted the position of opponents of the novel that, in principle, they do not oppose changes in the social field, but the way in which this mini social reform is adopted is irresponsible, a month before the elections and, of course, again without social dialogue. In their view it is an anti-social reform, the law is harmful and discriminatory to children, as also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. Proponents of the bill, however, stressed that the proposal provides for a reduction of the child allowance per third if the primary school does not continue education in secondary school, as this solution seeks to encourage children to achieve a higher level of education than primary school. In their view, the solutions proposed are good, and couples will be more likely to decide for their children, thus improving the demographic picture. The Committee has adopted all the articles, and a complementary proposal for a law has been prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Government will be presented by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Cveto Uršič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u36	Dear President! Dear Members and Members! The aim of family policy in Slovenia is mainly to ensure the quality of life of families and their protection and protection. In order to achieve this objective, it is important to have a wider social situation, such as the situation in the labour market, access to housing and the like, which creates a sense of security and stability for people, and a family-friendly family policy that promotes a positive attitude towards families in all areas. Slovenia has a well-ordered field of coordination of professional and family life in a systematic way. For example, Slovenia was the first European country to introduce one-year parental leave in 1986, and until years ago, it was the only country that had a 100 per cent wage replacement. Now Estonia has it. Immediately for Sweden in 1976 Slovenia also introduced the possibility of sharing parental leave between both parents. In 2019, a directive was adopted by the European Parliament and the Council on the coordination of the professional and private life of parents and caregivers, which the EU Member States are required to transpose into national law by 2 August this year. Slovenia has a more favourable legal framework in the field of paternity and parental protection than provided for in this Directive, so it will not reduce existing benefits but only amend them by complying with individual provisions of the Directive. In the Proposal for a New Law, the pavilion to parental leave shall be retained at an already valid level of 260 days for the mother of the child, in accordance with the requirements of the Directives, after which 2 months, 60 days of parental leave shall not be tolerated between the parents, and part of the agreement on parental separation shall be amended to allow each parent at least 60 days of non-transferable parental leave. This means that, as long as this proposal of the amendment of the law is adopted, the father has a higher number of days of leave than he has had since now. As a result of the requirements of the Directive, the duration of the right to work with reduced working hours due to parenthood is extended to 8 years of age in the Proposal for the novel. Up until the end of the 1st grade. Which is on average, so it's extended by about 10 months. From the point of view of promoting the education of children or the completion of primary schooling or the continuation of secondary schooling, the possibility of granting an allowance, a child allowance in material form, is introduced on the one hand, and this allowance is paid to one parent in kind for 3 months. If the Education and Sports Inspectorate finds in the infringement procedure that the student from, I emphasise, does not attend the education or other activities associated with the compulsory primary school programme for unjustified reasons. Of course, all advisory procedures within the framework of the school advisory service or the Centre for Social Work must be carried out before that. The child allowance may also be reduced by 33 %, i.e. by one third, if the child does not continue education on secondary education after completion of primary schooling. In particular, children’s allowances are intended for survival, education and education. So for three purposes, and if not for one purpose, it can be reduced. In addition, some provisions also apply to children who need special care and protection in relation to the right to partial payment for lost income. To sum up, i.e. in the Proposal for a Law, Slovenia has well-ordered parental protection. In particular, the proposal for a law aligns itself with the EU Directive adopted in 2019 and has to be transposed into the Slovenian legal order by the beginning of August of the year, or some of the additions we have reached are added, or colleagues have reached at the time of implementation, conclusions reached by colleagues at the time of implementation of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u37	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u38	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues. Today’s novel law regulating parental care and family benefits aims to increase the child’s benefits and improve the situation of families with children with special needs. The draft law transposes the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order in the work concerning the possibility of using paternity and parental leave and the use of the right to work with reduced working hours due to the parentage of the child up to the age of 8. According to the proposer, the draft law does not reduce the existing benefits enjoyed by the parents of the newborn child today, but only the way in which they are used changes. According to the new report, the father will have to spend 15 days of paternity leave until the child is born, and the remaining 15 days become part of a parental leave in a work that is untransferable. In addition, the rights of the father to the mother are being equalised, as the new two will receive 60 days of non-transferable parental leave, which they will be able to use by the end of the first grade of primary school at the latest. The proposed amendment should help to increase the participation of fathers in child care and in the more balanced sharing of applications. Of course, we strongly support social democrats, as this can lead to easier coordination of family and professional life mainly for women. However, we believe that further measures and incentives will be needed to increase the participation of fathers in the upbringing and care of the child. The effects of today's proposed changes will not show up until a few years later. In the parliamentary group, we also support all legislative changes aimed at improving the situation in the family for children with special needs. The proposed amendment to the arrangements for partial compensation for lost income due to the protection and care of the child will thus benefit those families who temporarily take their child from the welfare institution for a longer period of time, for example during the holidays and summer holidays in July and August. With regard to the proposal to reduce the child allowance of 33% of parents of children who do not continue formal schooling after completion of primary school, and the three-month payment of the child supplement in nature, if the child does not attend school for unjustified reasons, we believe that the solutions proposed are poorly thought out and inconsistent. This is pointed out both by the Legislative and Legal Service and by the Advocate for the principle of equality, which considers that a thorough analysis of the reasons for undue school failure and the suspension of further schooling after the completion of primary school should be carried out before these two measures are introduced. The legislative and legal service has raised quite a few concerns about both proposed solutions. She pointed out that in Slovenia only primary education is compulsory and the amount of the child allowance dependent on the income of the family is the same for up to 18 years of age. The law thus does not determine how much of the child allowance is intended for education, so it is envisaged that the child’s allowance should be reduced by 33 % if the child does not continue education after completion of primary school, completely arbitrary. Such minors will also be exposed to an uneven situation compared to children attending kindergarten, as preschool children receive the full amount of the child supplement even though they are not educated. The proposal also does not take into account the constitutional right to freedom of education and the possibility that a minor may continue education informally in workshops, seminars or working practice after finishing primary school. In the case of the punishment of parents of children who do not attend classes, the Legal and Legislative Service has also pointed out that each school has its own school rules and practice to inform the school inspector that the child has not been in school for a long time. Therefore, in this case, there is doubt as to the equal treatment of all parents in practice. However, it is also indeterminate that the payment of the child supplement in kind is intended to mean, in fact, what the payment of the child supplement in nature is intended to mean, is not clear or will the beneficiary have the right to state on his own what form of payment of the child supplement in nature would be most appropriate for him. Some parents need child support to cover basic life needs such as food and clothing, while others use children’s supplements to pay for leisure activities such as sports training, language or art courses, and so on. Social Democrats will not oppose the proposed amendment of the law for these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. At a time of record increases in food prices, fuel prices, heating, at a time when we should strengthen the social state, the right hand breaks it apart. The NSI party, which declares itself the guardian of families and children, has drawn up a law that will hurt the most vulnerable among us — those children who are now growing up in extreme poverty. The law before us contains several controversial interventions into the social protection system. The most problematic substantive intervention is the introduction of automation in the payment of the child supplement in material form and the reduction of the child supplement by 33 % when the child does not continue secondary education after the completion of the primary school. While proposing that the proposed amendments aim to encourage children to continue education, such penal policies often have the opposite effect, leading to further reductions in the social security of the weakest, poorest and most marginalized. The action of the “solidarity party” of NSI will thus mean an additional deterioration in the material situation and other circumstances in which these children live. It is also disputed that autonomy is withdrawn from social workers who, under the current regime, have all the powers to assess themselves, from the case to the case in which, instead of cash, a child allowance is granted to families in material form, for example, in the form of direct payment of housing or food bills, for the purchase of clothing or the like. Social workers can thus decide on the spot if they find that the family, for example, does not devote the child’s allowance to child survival, but for some other purpose. In NSI, they propose that this be no longer decided by professional social workers, but that the child allowance be automatically paid in material form if children do not attend primary school – the end. Instead of helping people in distress, the aim of these changes is primarily to control and control people. The novel also restricts the use of paternity leave, the abolition of paternity leave for adopters, the reduction of paternity leave from 30 days to 15 days and the reduction of the period of use to three months after the birth of the child. While the NSI party introduces an increase in the number of days of parental leave for fathers, it is not clear why such interventions are at all and how the change will affect the use of the leave used for the protection and care of the child by fathers, which it points out, after all, by the Law-Legal Service. The provisions are introduced into the law in the same way, without sufficient explanation as to how the change will work in life, in practice. The New Law on Parental Protection and Family Receipts is just one of the four harmful laws introduced in the NSa. All four proposals constitute a major intervention in the social rights of the population and the population, which will have long-term effects on the state of poverty and on the state of social exclusion. In view of the ignorance of trade unions, because of the ignorance of social dialogue, the proposals for legislation were not addressed even in the Economic and Social Council. We insist in Levica that family policy must be part of social policy and, as such, must primarily eliminate poverty and child poverty in society. “Social” - again in the notes - the reform of New Slovenia is doing exactly the opposite, deepening social inequalities, pushing the poor, pushing marginalized families even more to rob society. How can a party who claims to be a family defender get into the exact families that are most needed. We will vote against such a law in Levica. New Slovenia, on the other hand, is proposing to leave an assessment of the eligibility of social transfers to social workers rather than to create moral panic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Tadeja Šuštar Zalar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u42	The New Law on Parental Protection and Family Receipts brings five major changes. That is, 75 non-transferable days of leave for the father at birth or an additional 45 days compared to current legislation. Following a new proposal, the father will be able to use 15 days of leave until the child's third month of age and 60 days to the eighth year of age. The number of days the mother can use will remain unchanged. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we are aware that it is very important for good education that the father or both parents may be present as much as possible. The second amendment brought about by the novel is related to the use of reduced working time. This could be done by both parents at the same time for a total of 20 hours a week. After the current arrangement, only one parent can work part - time. It is possible to use reduced working hours for parents who care for either one child up to the third year or at least two children up to the eighth year of age. The third novelty allows greater flexibility for parents of children with special needs who spend part of the year in institutions. The right to partial payment for lost income so far could only be exercised for 10 hours a week if the child stays at home for at least 90 days a year. However, if he is more at home, we want to provide parents with higher income because the needs are greater. In Novi Slovenija we propose that if he stays at home for at least 180 days, the right to partial payment for lost income will increase to 20 hours per week, but if he stays at home for at least 270 days per year, his right will increase to 30 hours per week. We further encourage children to complete primary education and to gain a career through which they can take care of themselves and their family in the future. With the changes, we introduce automaticism so that children's allowance is given instead of money in nature, which means direct payment of bills, clothes, meals, if the student is not attending classes for unjustified reasons. This is an extreme measure which does not apply to students with special needs and to children who are home-schooled. The child supplement is intended for survival, education and education. If the child does not continue schooling after primary school, the child’s allowance shall be reduced by one third, i.e. for education. We want to encourage parents to educate their children because after they grow up, they find work and get on their feet. The proposed changes encourage and strengthen families and allow them to be more flexible in order to better coordinate their professional and family lives. In addition, we pay more attention to children with special needs that need the care of their parents. We want all children to complete primary schooling, continue in secondary schools, and later take care of themselves and their family on their own. The changes are welcome in Slovenian society and have a lot of support among people, so we will support them in Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Chairman, and I apologize. Your Honor! Allow me to start by saying that in the SAB Group we do not oppose changes in the social field, and we believe that this area also needs to be reformed, but not forcefully, without assessed effects, past social dialogue and beyond all the business and constitutional frameworks. The law we are talking about today is only one of the laws of the so-called mini social reform announced by Nova Slovenija, which the reception wants to force in the National Assembly just before the elections, just to fill its electoral posters. Members of the NSI in the National Assembly are always stressing the importance of social dialogue, but this time, according to their assessment, is irrelevant in an area in which the responsibility of the family, children, parents and the most vulnerable members of society is already based on the responsibility of the family, the most vulnerable members of society without serious analysis, public debate and social dialogue. This area must not be affected without being considered by the SAB. The bill is therefore suppressed without public debate, without social dialogue and at the top of everything, following a reduced procedure, which is unacceptable in view of concrete interventions to the social protection system. They have overstepped all the rules in force in this area, while knowingly and without a bad conscience violating the constitutionally defined procedure for the adoption of legislative proposals. They have thus shown their attitude towards this sensitive social field. The amendment is intended to result in the transposition or harmonisation of the European Directive, but if this were the case, it would be the Government's proposal. It is more than obvious that the Directives do not point to changes, as pointed out by both the Legal and Legal Service and the Advocate of the principle of equality. In case of nonconsistency of this proposal, we can make provision that 60 days of parental leave after a new one will no longer be tolerated. Such a proposal interferes with another area, in the relationship between the agreement on the sharing of leave between parents. In the field of child supplements, the law imposes additional sanctions. First payment of a child allowance in kind for 3 months, i.e. if a criminal procedure is instituted against the parents of pupils due to the unjustified absence of a child from school and other compulsory school activities. This rule is intended to apply automatically to NSI's proposal, i.e. without a derivative at CSDU, in order to ensure that children's rights are first and that there should be no automatic depriving of them. Another time. Reduction of the child allowance by 33% if the child in primary school does not continue with education. Children’s allowances are intended for children and their survival, so sanctions do not punish children. In most European countries, in Austria and Germany, this is a family measure and not a social policy and is the same for children and independent of the material situation of the family. In the SAB, we believe that children should be encouraged, not sanctioned. Therefore, the proposed sanctions need to be carefully considered. In the SAB Group, we do not support the proposal for a law. It is simply unacceptable to intervene in the social field in a quick and violent manner, proposing solutions that are harmful and discriminatory to children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the views of the Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected! The amendment of the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act mainly regulates the area of paternity and parental leave, but in a way that aligns it with the provisions of the Directive on the coordination of the professional and private life of parents and caregivers. The scope of existing rights under this Directive does not decrease. In addition, the novel seeks to encourage children to achieve a higher level of education than primary school. The aim of the novel is to ensure gender equality, to harmonise professional and family life, to increase the benefits of children and to improve the situation of children, to encourage primary school attendance and to continue the education programme. With regard to paternity and parental leave, changes are minimal but necessary. Under the current regime, the father may benefit from at least 15 days of 15 calendar days at the time of the birth of the child up to about one year and the remainder up to 30 days at any time from the child's completed first grade of primary school. In accordance with the amendment under consideration, the father will be able to take advantage of the 15 calendar days of paternity leave from the birth of the child to his 3rd month of age and the remaining 15 days that can be spent by the child's completed first grade of primary school under the applicable legislation will become part of parental leave in work that is not transferable. The right to parental leave shall be reserved for the existing 260 days for the mother when the father transfers all 100 days of parental leave to her. In accordance with the provisions of the Directive, which requires Member States not to transfer 60 days of parental leave between parents, the amendment amends part of the agreement on parental separation by allowing each parent to have at least 60 days of non-transferable parental leave. If his father takes 100 days of parental leave to his mother, he'll have 60 days left to live. The same is true if the mother spends all 100 days with her father. Father will be able to spend 260 days of parental leave on his mother’s 60 days. The duration of the right to work with shorter working hours, due to parenthood, is extended to 8 years of age under the Directive. Now the current regime sets this limit until the end of the first grade of the primary school. The essential difference, however, is not just about the unity resulting from the age of the child. Both parents will also be able to work with shorter working hours due to parenthood, but the common use of justice will not exceed 20 hours a week. The proposal also introduces some changes in the allocation of the child allowance. The provision introducing amendments to the payment of the child supplement was slightly amended by a supplement to the parental committee. A child allowance will be paid to one of the parents in the form of specific goods on the basis of a contract for specific goods, payment of individual invoices and the like if the Slovenian Education and Sports Inspectorate finds, therefore, by a decision in criminal proceedings, that the student for unjustified reasons does not attend education or other activities under the compulsory primary school programme. The Inspectorate shall also inform the Centre for Social Work of the findings. It is still downsizing the bill and thus provides for a reduction of the child allowance by 33 per cent if the child does not continue education in secondary school programmes after completion of primary education. Notwithstanding the above, the child allowance shall be paid in full for pupils with special needs. In the Parliamentary Group, in particular, we will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Receipts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! For the last quarter of the century, we have witnessed major changes in the way family life is done in relations between parents and children in the area of partnership and family roles and so on. Despite the changes, the family remains a fundamental social cell of great importance to the individual. Public research shows that the family is important in all lifetimes and is ranked highest in the lives of individuals on the scale of values. It is also important to stress that a positive value is important for a young family. Although the level of family policy in the Republic of Slovenia is at an envious level, it is right that the status of the family continues and further improves and adapts to the needs of people and their everyday lives through positive measures. The proposal before us today can be said to be on this path. The proposal to amend the law slightly changes the possibility of using paternity leave and parental leave so that the father can spend 15 days by the age of 3 months and 60 days by the age of 8 years. But your parents will be able to spend 100 days of parental leave with you. Further news is that the right to work with reduced working hours is being extended due to the parenting age of up to 8 years of age, which is on average 10 months more than now, with the right to use both parents for shorter working hours, but not more than 20 hours a week at a common level. In order to encourage children to attend primary school, automaticism is introduced in the award of a child allowance in material form for a period of three months for one of the parents if the education inspectorate finds that the school child is not attending school for unjustified reasons. In order to promote further education, the level of the child supplement is regulated downwards if the child does not continue education in secondary schools after completion of primary education. That measure must not be construed as criminal. According to Members of the Desus Group, the measures are intended to encourage young people and their parents to make as much effort as possible in a better future and independent and independent life with the help of an excellent and accessible educational system. The bill also introduces a solution to the perceived problem of parental entitlement to partial payment for lost income in the event of a child being resident in a institution and a certain number of days stay at home. According to the new report, one parent will also be entitled to a partial loss of income payment for 20 or 30 hours a week for a period of one year if the child has stayed at home for at least 180 or 270 days a year and his parents have actually taken care of him in both cases in the last year prior to the application. The new law on parental protection and family benefits, as assessed by Members of the Desus Group, follows the objective of increasing the benefit of children and improving the situation of children and improving the coordination of family and professional life. In our view, the proposed solutions will also contribute to improving demographic images. That is why we will unitedly support the proposal for a law in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Lenart will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present, especially guests from the Ministry. We are considering a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on parental protection and family benefits of the ZSDP-1F, which was tabled by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Joseph Horvat in the National Assembly. As from 1 August 2019, Directive 2019/1158 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the coordination of the professional and private life of parents and caregivers laying down minimum requirements for family leave, paternity leave, parental leave in order for partners to assume an equal share of the obligation of care and provide incentives in the form of paid paternity and parental leave, as unpaid leave is one of the reasons why the other partner rarely uses it. The aim of this Directive is to ensure gender equality taking into account labour market opportunities and labour treatment in the European Union by promoting the coordination of work and family life for workers who are also parents. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that following a directive to be transposed into national law by the Member States up to 2. 8. 2022 improves the position of parents and children, i.e. Slovenian families. The proposal brings more good solutions. The opinion of most Slovenes is that good conditions must be provided for young families in order to maintain positive birthrates, which are also touched by the proposal for amendments to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits. It is also true that fathers are actively involved in the care of the newborn and in the further training of their children. Of course, such a distribution of parental leave must always be in the agreement of both partners or guardians, so the precise effect of the changes cannot be predicted and they promise. The main thing is that with this coalition and this government under the leadership of the Slovenian Democratic Party, under all other conditions, it is concerned that the economy is in good condition, that citizens and families are in good financial condition, and that the conditions for the life of young families in Slovenia are good for these families. For this reason, several positive changes have been made to the relevant legislation in the field of family, work and social life in the last mandate, which will also lead to a better demographic picture of the population in Slovenia over the years. I must say that since 2010, we have had a negative birth curve, i.e., births have fallen, and somehow by 2021. In the last year or year, this curve has changed upwards for a slight change. Thus, whether or not we believe that this has happened is certainly a “cover” policy within the mandate of this Government. Thus, the objectives of the law - once again - are to increase the benefits of children, to improve the situation of children by encouraging families to attend primary school and to participate in further education. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the proposal for a law because we believe that it will affect our children and young people's welfare. We also hope that young couples and the Slovenian family in general will be more likely to choose parenthood with the effects of these changes and other favourable conditions provided for families. We will therefore support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled to be carried out in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before opening the round of applications, the speaker, Mr Reberšek, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Yes, I will briefly respond to the views expressed by the parliamentary groups. Some Members said that you would not oppose the proposed law because you support certain solutions. Most believe, however, that the law we have drawn up in Novi Slovenija supports, for which I also sincerely thank everyone as the proposer of this law. Mr Soniboj Knezak pointed out that in the SD Group, they disagreed with the proposed solution for the reduction of the child allowance. Here I would like to point out that the child supplement is intended for survival, education and education, and if we take one part, if, say, the child is not educated, we take one third of this child supplement, which is otherwise intended for education. Our goal, or goal, should be to educate children to receive adequate education, for that means that they later gain a good job, a good job, which means that they are no longer in the burden of the country, so that the money we spend on social welfare can be given to someone else who is significantly more deserving of it. The Left says this law is harmful. Although I am of the opinion that whatever we could prepare, the Left would always remain in that position. However, the law we have drawn up in New Slovenia encourages and strengthens families. If a father can spend 75 days with a child by the age of eight instead of 30 days, that's more. So by now it could have been 30 days, now it can be 75 days, so 45 days more than the current legislation. Ambassador Vojko Starović of the SAB Group said that we are doing all this through social dialogue. Here too, I must tell him that the Economic Social Council is represented by representatives of employers, representatives of workers and the Government. And now I'm asking him here, where's the National Assembly in here? There is no National Assembly in the ESS, so we haven't done anything wrong here. With regard to the adoption of a shorter procedure. I would also like to say that the time frame for transposition of the EU Directive, which we are transposing by this Act by 2 August of this year, after the adoption of this Act, will still need to be adapted to the information systems, which, of course, will also take some time. That's how fast now. Once again, I sincerely thank all those who will, of course, support this Law proposal for the benefit of our children, our families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I am putting to the debate Article 18 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I can see it's just Primaj Sitter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u54	Thank you very much if you'll allow me a sentence, two generals about the law we have before us. We in Levica have repeatedly said that the NSI has now come in this part of the last part of the mandate with an anti-social reform with a set of four really marriage proposals. This is one of them who touches the social map, on the map of the social state in a harmful way. Of course, first of all, I will not judge the intention, the motive, but the way it is said is a purely technical way of how it happened after the laws of the government in a broader public forum came to a negative response, then the same content began to appear in the laws of the Member States, which in fact do not need to be dealt with in fact in the Economic Social Council, agreement with the factors involved or stakeholders, employers, employees, in this case also trade, social workers and so on. In short, here is, I say one purely pragmatically measured criticism of the process and the way in which the NSI government extension in Parliament dealt with these matters. However, let us try to understand the broader context in which social reform is urgently needed. We live in a time when we are all under trial. At the previous point, I wrote some statistics on how many people live below the poverty line. We're talking about kids today. Already before the epidemic, 40,000 children lived below the poverty threshold. And that is, this cruel number that it is, which offers some prism, through which all reforms must be viewed. And the first thing anyone who's trying to fix these social irregularities should have as a compass, an end to poverty. Speaking of children, it's so much more radical to step into the path of eliminating poverty among children. And now the prices of food, fuel prices, heating and so on, here they come, with the crisis, with the epidemic and with the current Russian Ukrainian war. Here they only strengthen this level of poverty, and also among children. On the other hand, of course, decision makers must come with concrete policies on how to strengthen the social state, and we see that in the texts of these proposed laws there is one set of harmful measures that do not have to do with healthy logic and that things are set up very recklessly. And the main criticism that I personally express myself, which I have also highlighted in the position of the Group of Members, is this automation of processes in the tools of the social state. First, when paying the child’s allowance if the child does not attend school. Let us consider some cases in which children are not trained in practice. All children attend primary school, including high - school education, involving a large percentage of children or adolescents. In what cases, though, does the child have no circumstances to continue his schooling? I'm asking a rhetorical question, of course. Does it seem to anyone that access to school, the extra social exclusion of a child has anything to do with other marginalizations, I don't know, in families that, I don't know, can't survive and send a child to work instead of school, or in some environments that I don't know are full of, I don't know, crime, family violence and so on, other social exclusions. And now here to introduce some automation, some, I don't know, a digital algorithm or how it's going to achieve or yes or no or what this child is now, why not, and in fact he won't care why such a child doesn't go to school, let's put more people into the process, more social workers. That's why we have him there. However, not less than the proposal is made by the proposers. Or a similar example of automation, I will lovingly call it the digitisation of the social state or processes of the social state, materially instead of a child's allowance in nature instead of money. Again, I mean, what automated process can determine that one family will be better off serving a child's allowance in nature than in money, if not human, if not social worker? And social workers are essential, they are the most important part of the social state, they provide social security to the weakest, and we have it for that. Social workers, I have repeatedly stressed, do not serve as social workers, but rather as social workers and workers. Everyone here probably knows a social worker and a worker, and they can just attach it to it. No social worker works from 8 to 16 but he's out there in the field with people. And in all the additional bureaucratic burdens that social workers and workers have experienced in recent years, they just hold onto their heads and say, "Oh, again. But more red tape?" they want to work with people, work in the field, solve people's particular hardships. And now antisocial reform, we call it in Levica because we see that it will not save any human being. The solution, of course, is to strengthen the public network of institutions that provide social security, additional employment of social workers, professional staff. It is not the automation of the process, the determination of entitlement to social transfers and the assistance of the social state. That the matter is rather reckless and one amendment to this law is also being made to Article 27, but I will, Madam Vice-President, come forward when we open this article. However, I think it is very clear that it defines or summarises the indiscretion that has led to the resolution of social pressures on the part of the applicants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The text is wanted by the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that again. Yes, I simply have to respond because the Ambassador of the Left, with his rhetoric, knocks on people's emotions. He just races on people's emotions. But I ask you all who are watching this now to turn back and look again at what the Member has said before me. And you wonder what the citizens have to say. Now I will tell you what they have to do with our actions, from our change of law, and I would like to explain why this law is not as harmful as the true Member of the Left. We extend our fatherly leave from the present 30 to 75 days, so we increase our fatherly leave by 45 days. Tell me what's harmful here. What's wrong here, tell me. Both parents will be able to benefit from part - time work. Tell me what's harmful here. Let me know what's harmful here, because I just don't understand. Children with special needs who spend part of the year at home or spend part of the year in the institution increase partial payment for lost income. Ten years and more, these kids have been begging, no one's heard them. This government hears them. What's harmful here is that if we increase these people's financial resources, because the child is at home for more time, parents need more money, which is logical. I don't know what would be harmful here? And what's wrong with that, fourth time, if we want kids to go to school. Primary school is mandatory. We want our children to go to school so that they can get a suitable education so that they can get a suitable job later. Of course, when they have a suitable job, they also have a suitable salary. By the way, in the Income Act, we've even increased this salary, to all the employees who work and you've been opposed to it. And if I sum up, if I draw the line, with all due respect, the Levica is harmful, not the law we proposed in New Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Ambassador Horvat, the Secretary of State, Mr Uršič, has the floor. [[…]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. In view of the previous debate, however, it seems appropriate for me to point out that this Government has a very great deal of attention for families. That's a lot of listening. Let me list some of the systemic measures that were taken in the year, say 2021. Free kindergarten for the second and third children. So this option or this right has been reintroduced. The news applicable to the parents of children born after 1 January 2021, aid for the birth of a child, which is a one-time receipt from the birth of a child, rose from €286 to €350 after harmonisation to €367. The parental allowance also rose from €258 to the basic amount of minimum income, that is 402 euros and from €1. 3. This year, when he was valorized to 421, this parental allowance is intended for parents who are not insured for parental care, for example, students who are unemployed and receive it one year after the birth of a child. The minimum payment of maternity, paternity and parental benefits has also been raised. An important story is that beneficiaries of shorter working hours than 1. 1. 2021, the Republic of Slovenia ensures up to full employment obligations, the payment of social security contributions, from the proportional part of the average of the last 12 salaries, but not less than the proportional part of the minimum wage. This measure will not reduce parents' pension if they work with shorter working hours due to parenthood, as their contributions will be paid from an actual base, i.e. the average of the last 12 salaries. And perhaps the last important thing was to point out the problems of social work centres that they lack professional workers. In the coming months, the process is already under way, we will make it possible to provide funds for the employment of more than 120 professional workers at social work centres in Slovenia. This means that the number of professional workers will increase by about 10%. This has never been done in recent years. Thank you very much. So, just a comment. So this marriage brings, is for the benefit of the family, is for the benefit of children and also a variety of other activities have been done in the last two years for the benefit of families and for the benefit of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat also applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary of State with a co-worker, all very well hailed. Since I am the first to be signed under this law, I would first like to thank everyone for their patient debate and, of course, for their support on the committee. I've been monitoring the session, and I want more meetings like this. Thank you also to all those who have announced your support for this law today. As far as our amendment to Article 18 is concerned, it is simply that we want to make things more precise in a legal sense. What exactly does this amendment accomplish? We will achieve that Article 18 reads as follows: irrespective of paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 of this Article, one of the parents’ children’s allowance shall be paid in the form of concrete goods on the basis of a contract for specific goods, individual invoices and the like. If the Education and Sports Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, with a legislative decision, comes from the amendment, by a legal decision in criminal proceedings, it shall find that the student does not attend education or other activities for non-executive reasons under the compulsory programme of the primary school and shall inform the Centre for Social Work thereof. So, a very simple amendment, I think he'll also get unanimous support. I believe that we agree here that for the development of society, the coordination of work and family life is crucial, the coordination of work and family life, and that it is essential for the development of society. Today this is an extremely difficult question, it is not easy, but also the policy here has the task of giving through its levers all the possibilities that this coordination is optimal. And even if we are in the family policy, we may also agree in the next term to establish a special Ministry of the Family, because, in fact, family issues, hand to heart, have nothing to look for in this mastodon dealing with social, work, disabled, equal opportunities and so on. If we really want to correct the demographic indicators, we also need to give families a special place at the practical level in the structure or in the government scheme. And one more thing. It is right to learn about single-celled people in schools, but it would be right and even more right to learn about a little more about school curriculums to learn about the basic cell of human society, about relationships and so on, but this is another topic now. Our solutions in this law follow the principle of the greatest benefit of the child, not only taking into account the present but also the child’s future and his ability to grow up by means of employment on his own. If we encourage parents to attend and finish primary school and enter high school, we can effectively end intergenerational poverty. This is often transmitted from parent to child through the same patterns of non-educational and family unemployment, but if parents are encouraged to acquire at least a basic education that makes them more employable and can be put on their feet as adults, we can stop the negative spiral of intergenerational poverty. Moreover, experience shows that someone who has not completed primary school during his youth is far more difficult to complete than an adult. And we've heard a lot of criticism about why we're shutting down one third of the baby supplement. What is it, exactly? The law needs to be read. If the child does not continue secondary education after completion of primary school, the amount of the child allowance shall be reduced by 33 %, which is just part of the child allowance intended for education. Is it fair, or is it fair, to make financial contributions for something that is not being done? It's not fair, hand to heart. They also know that parents are publicly entitled to two thirds of the child’s allowance, which is intended for the child’s survival and upbringing. The amount of the child allowance shall be paid in full to pupils with special needs. I'm responding to the allegations that no serious analysis has been done for this law. They weren't serious, but they were made very serious. We also measured the pulse of public opinion as to what people actually think about these solutions. And it is strongly supported by a proposal that takes into account only the amount of income and not more assets such as savings in the account and the car when calculating family benefits. 63 percent of respondents agree that calculating this property for such benefits is too complex, inefficient, and delayed. Disaggregation of family policy measures, child allowance, kindergarten, social policy scholarship, money, social assistance, emergency social assistance support of 69% of respondents. Of course, the second question is that the system of financial transfers should be more transparent to 81% of the respondents. Maybe even because there are so many readings in the media, but I never get involved in editorial policy, I respect media freedom, and I expect this is probably my citizen's right to report only and only the truth. I read that parental or paternal leave is declining, and that is what we have heard today. For God's sake, 75 non-transferable days of parental leave bring these laws. This is an additional 45 compared to the current arrangement. Today, 30 is now 75. What's more? 75 is more, for God's sake. In addition, if a child with special needs who has a full day-to-day free care at least 180 days a year stays at home, one of the parents has the right to partial payment for 20 hours a week for lost income. But if we stay home for at least 270 days for 30 hours a week. Now the right to partial payment for lost income can be exercised only for 10 hours a week if the child stays at home for at least 90 days a year. It is generally said — and I conclude with this — that this is the first time that this law is passed to children, the second time to families. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word of this? If not, I'm closing it. I am also putting to the debate Article 21 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? I see you don't. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided on Wednesday or Thursday in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on social security benefits within the framework of a restricted procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of seven Members with first-signed Joseph Horvat. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to Mrs Tadeja Šuštar Zalar's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u62	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Members and Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we have tabled in the legislative process amendments to the Law on Social Security Benefits, which regulates monetary social assistance. Amendments provide that if a child does not attend primary school or there is a debt to public services or educational institutions, social assistance is paid in kind for 3 months. Payment in kind may, for example, mean payment of electricity bills, heating, shopping vouchers at the store and so on. The main objective of this solution is to encourage children to attend primary school, to complete it, to acquire education and to have a basis for entering the labour market and to live on their own. This change is intended primarily as an incentive for families to allow children to attend primary school. In the event that the Centre for Social Work decides to start paying social assistance to the family in nature, it means that professional workers have become more interested in families. Professionals have an insight into the family’s financial situation, and they know what positions are important to their lives and what they need, so this is a measure that teaches families how to afford money social assistance. The measure will apply for three months, then cash social assistance will be paid back in cash. Within three months, the family can learn how to use financial social assistance. Let me point out once again that this is about the welfare of the children. Statistics show that when a child stops attending primary school, he rarely decides as an adult to continue primary schooling. However, it is important that the primary school connects itself to the social work centre as soon as it detects the problem of not having a child. However, the payment of social assistance in nature is an extreme measure. The primary school and the social work centre are building on the fact that this is not happening. The measure is intended to protect the child and the family. It is the duty of parents to take care of the child’s education and to bring him to the conclusion of primary school at least to make it easier for them to get on their feet and join the labour market. If parents fail to do so, they will be able to include a social work centre and help them to do so and thus encourage the child to graduate from primary school. The country goes to help the family when it sees that she can't do it on her own. In this way we also prevent intergenerational poverty, as samples are being transferred. We do not want parents to have children who do not have completed primary education, since it is highly likely that these children, as adults, will be able to pass on such education and will also be their children without education. This measure must be understood in a positive way that the right of the child to education is safeguarded. Another important solution is the exchange of personal data with the consent of the beneficiary between the Centre for Social Work, the Office of Employment and Humanitarian Organisations, as it happens that one of those organisations pays particular attention to the person in need of assistance and then this person comes to another organisation and focuses on the same problems from the start. This represents a double work and a time that has already been allocated to the same person or family and thus takes up room for help for others in need. In addition, the objective of the solution is an integrated and comprehensive treatment of an individual or family who, in dealing with the social work centre and thus empowering and returning a person to the labour market to take care of himself and his family. In order to resolve obstacles, such as mental health problems, addiction problems and social and other problems affecting the material risks of beneficiaries of money assistance, cooperation between social work centres and social protection programme providers and humanitarian organisations is also needed. For example, the exchange of data on received financial contributions, the involvement of beneficiaries of social security services and programmes and other forms of assistance, such as material aid in food, clothing, organised aid for volunteers, arrangements for the active resolution of the social problem, and the activities of all three stakeholders to address the problem of the individual beneficiary. Here again, I should like to stress what has been repeatedly exposed to the fact that the exchange of data is conducted explicitly with the consent of the beneficiary. We are aware that we are bound by the EU Data Protection Regulation of the GDPR and that this exchange will require the consent of the beneficiary. I thank all those who will recognize good solutions and support the proposal, as you supported it with 9:1 already on the parent's working body, or you did not oppose it in general in the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The proposal was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. I therefore give the floor to Vice-President Tadej Šuštar Zalar for the presentation of the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u64	Thanks again. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on social security benefits submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Joseph Horvat to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law should be examined after a reduced procedure and the National Assembly confirmed the decision of the College. The Committee was provided with a number of materials and amendments tabled, which were also adopted by the Committee at the end of the discussion. A representative of the proposers presented a proposal for a law. The representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities explained that a number of measures were being introduced in the social protection system by means of a bill. He explained that the Government welcomed the solution with which the proposer wanted to connect the various stakeholders in the social protection system and improve the life of families. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. With regard to the completion of the list of grounds for inequitableness to financial social assistance provided for in Article 1 of the draft law, her representative pointed out that both the exceptions to house arrest and the new ground for a conditional conviction were contrary to constitutionally guaranteed human rights and fundamental constitutional principles. Article 4, which introduces new forms of active social resolution, pointed out the inadequacy of the proposed regulation. In Article 5 of the bill, however, it pointed to the unconstitutional condition for a change in the way money is paid through the imposition of a criminal procedure for the non-visiting of lessons for unjustified reasons. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which did not support the proposed amendments. Her representative presented the opinion and said, inter alia, that the Commission was joining comments on the inadequacy of the way in which draft laws should otherwise be subject to social dialogue or broader social debate, including the current draft law. He explained that the Commission had expressed its support for all the proposed measures that could help empower an individual, while advocating the implementation of measures resulting from aid and not punishment. In the debate, it was pointed out that amendments were tabled in the draft law, which would exclude a person from being entitled to financial social assistance when he was sentenced to imprisonment. The payment of cash social assistance in kind for three months will also be introduced on the basis of a legal decision of the Slovenian Inspectorate for Education and Sport in Criminal Procedure or if the Centre for Social Work is informed that the beneficiary has an unpaid debt to public economic services or educational institutions, which will be demonstrated by evidence of failure to execute. Nevertheless, it has also been pointed out that social transfers, such as monetary social assistance and a security allowance, are key instruments that we can be proud of as a society. In the opinion of the members of the Committee, the draft law on anti-social reform is being considered, as it has a strong impact on social security and family policy. In his view, the automaticity of payment of cash social assistance is being introduced and the abolition of the discretionary right of social workers with a multitude of measures affecting the social sphere is only getting worse. The Committee has adopted all the articles and a proposal for a new law is also being prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u65	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Cvet Uršič, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u66	Madam Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The social protection system comprises a series of measures aimed at preventing poverty and social exclusion. At the beginning of the 21st century, we are faced with a number of challenges, among which it is appropriate to highlight the accelerated ageing of the population, thereby reducing the working population, digitisation, robotics and, of course, changes in the economy, globalisation, the transition to a green economy and, therefore, the changed external trade dynamics. All these changes also require adapting the social security system to allow it to respond quickly and effectively to the needs of people and to provide a strong safety net for individuals and families in vulnerable situations. As a result, the first part of the bill is aimed at bringing together different stakeholders (employment, social work centres, humanitarian organisations) to provide comprehensive, effective and rapid response support to people in vulnerable situations. The second measure is aimed at encouraging, what I have already pointed out in the previous law, the social inclusion of children. The law allows cash social assistance to be paid in the form of concrete goods if the child is not enrolled in primary school. It is not taken away, but is paid in kind by paying the bills, the possibility of purchasing these basic necessities of life and so on. This is important. For this reason, what we have stressed is also in the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act, so that poverty or social exclusion from parents is not tolerated, then to children. Our desire is, our incentives go in the direction of greater social inclusion of children, and this is, of course, also associated with inclusion in school and education. These are essentially, well, maybe even a third, this is more of a technical or legal aspect, the possibility of keeping personal data records, of connecting, which is also necessary from the point of view of implementation of this law. That is why, of course, we support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As the first to receive the word, Mr Primož Siter. He will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Good day again. NSI has tabled a new Law on Social Security Benefits, which is part of a package of anti-social laws with which the NSI party wants to clearly dismantle the social security system before the elections and assign pre-election candy to the wealthy families. The NSI's anti-social package improves the situation of the unemployed and denies them the right to choose a profession, removes the possibility of an appeal to be erased from the employment prospector's register and without the possibility of a complaint or clarification of its own situation withdraws emergency assistance. Instead of raising state scholarships to poor students and students receiving 100 or maybe 200 euros in scholarships, they grant children from families with 4,000 or more euros in net income. They interfere with the work of social workers and workers and take away their professional autonomy on the issue of how to pay for financial social assistance. They reduce children's allowances to the poorest children who are not to blame for the actions of their parents or for the structural causes of the poverty and social exclusion in which they are found and abolish the right of adoptive parents to paternity leave. With today's proposal, the NSI party was seeking to fully forfeit the right to social assistance to the convicted. The withdrawal of funds for the survival of sentenced persons without their own resources and with limited employment opportunities is simply inhumane and may also have adverse consequences in terms of rehabilitation policy. Material deprivation may constitute a reason or a reason or a reason for the recurrence of criminal offences. The proposal demonstrates the complete absence of any sociological reflection. The legislative and legal service correctly concluded that the measure does not respect the principle of legality, that it constitutes a violation of the constitutionally guaranteed human rights and freedoms, that it is an infringement of the human right to dignity and social security for infringement of the laundry system and an disproportionate intervention in the position of an individual. While under pressure NSI has proposed the withdrawal of these disputed provisions, the law still includes harmful changes. One of them is the withdrawal of cash social assistance in money and the automatic payment of natural aid. Professionally qualified social workers already have the possibility, under the current legislation, to determine, on the basis of personal knowledge, that the specific social situation will temporarily not be paid in money, but in nature, so in case, in the form of direct payment of housing bills, for the purchase of food, clothing and the like. Social workers can decide this if they find that financial social assistance is not used to support family members, but for other purposes. However, NSI proposes that this be no longer decided by professional workers, but that social assistance be paid in kind if children do not attend primary school or have unpaid accounts for public economic services or educational institutions. The proposal therefore removes the professional thinking of social workers and workers who decide on this in relation to specific situations of life where the reasons for not learning are, say, or not paying the bills, understandable, multifaceted and where the task of social workers is precisely to find a way to best help people in distress, not vice versa. We are, of course, opposed to this proposal in the left hand side.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Aleksander Reberšek, who will present the position of the Member of the Joint NSI. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello again! The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Security Benefits brings three solutions. Money-social assistance shall be paid in kind for three months if the child does not attend primary school without justification. This is a measure to be introduced on the basis of a legal decision of the Education and Sports Inspectorate. Money social assistance shall be paid in kind for three months even if there is a debt to public services or educational institutions, as evidenced by the failure of enforcement. In this way, we want to encourage parents to allow children to complete at least primary school, which is the basis for entering the labour market and living on their own. It is possible to treat an individual or family in an integrated and comprehensive manner with money-based social assistance through the cooperation of social work centres with the Employment Office and humanitarian organisations or social security programme providers, if persons have been treated there. The key objective is to empower and return a person to the labour market to take care of himself and his family. There is no legal basis for the exchange of data between social work centres and the Employment Employment Office of beneficiaries of financial social assistance, although this would be crucial for their overall treatment and active resolution of social problems, such as data on the activities of the employment plan, employment objectives, integration into labour market services, the skills of the person and recognised barriers to integration into the labour market, agreements on the active resolution of social problems, and on the active two institutions to address the problems of the individual beneficiary. In order to resolve obstacles, mental health problems, addiction problems and social and other similar problems affecting material risks, the beneficiaries of money assistance also need to cooperate with CSDs and social protection programme operators and humanitarian organisations. For example, it is the exchange of data received from monetary levies, the involvement of beneficiaries in social security services and programmes and other forms of assistance such as material assistance in food, clothing, organised aid for volunteers. Agreements on the active resolution of the social problem and on the activities of all three institutions to address the problem of the individual beneficiary. The exchange of data will, of course, only be possible on the basis of the consent of the beneficiary to financial social assistance. In New Slovenia, of course, we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the SAB Group will be presented by Mr Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Your Honor! The proposer of the new amendment promises to actively address the social problem of recipients of financial social assistance, arguing that only those who need it will receive financial social assistance as a result of the approval of this law. Let's see if any of this is true. In the SAB we see merely the link between social work centres and the employment agency with social security programme providers and humanitarian organisations as a positive solution, but it is so unmanaged that it will remain a dead letter on the law. The novelty, however, imposes sanctions on recipients of financial social assistance, i.e. sanctions that are to be paid in a new way, if the child does not attend school or if the parents have debts due to electricity, water and the like. Let us not forget that the right to financial social assistance is intended to provide funds to meet minimum living needs at a level that makes it possible to survive. This is the main purpose of social rights, not the discipline of parents or children or the recovery of debts. Let's move on. For example, a person who is in house custody will only be entitled exceptionally to receive financial social assistance. In the original proposal, the proposal sought to abolish social assistance for all those who were conditionally sentenced to prison sentences. In doing so, we can only ask ourselves what is wrong with our society and politics, which, on the one hand, wants to end financial social assistance only because of the criminal procedure introduced and, on the other hand, does not want to take similar measures for officials, and also for Members in much worse cases of violations and crimes. In the SAB, we want to prevent a distinction between first-class and second-class citizens, and that is why we have also introduced into the legislative procedure a law that would prevent convicted persons from being sentenced to imprisonment for a criminal offence, but that was not possible. This insists on double standards. We are not saying that there was no social dialogue in this law; the law was not even part of government support, even recognised by the Minister of Labour of the quota of New Slovenia. Experts in this area, i.e. the social field, assess this work as an evaluation of the principle of fairness and solidarity, the process of adopting policies and the impact of science and professions. They estimate that we have not yet had such a populist, demagogic and approach. [[Incomprehensible]] Look, when we talk about social benefits, we go to punishment here, but we don't talk much about the social benefits that pensioners receive, which they shouldn't have done if they did their life's work and built us a society in which we now live with all the infrastructure. We forget this, otherwise we have done something in the SAB to do this from the red card, to the transport, to the raising of the dose percentage, to shortening the application of this, but these are not the right solutions. We are defending a strong economy, a strong economy we will have, a strong social and pensioners will be taken care of. In the SAB, we do not support this conservative way of understanding mobility and equality, which means a step backwards for every modern society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of the Group will be presented by Mrs Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected! The proposed amendment of the Social Security Benefits Act seeks to ensure that social issues are tackled actively and to arrange for the storage of data and documents from the database on monetary social assistance and a protective allowance. The aim of the active solution to the social problem is to achieve the objective of establishing a legal basis for cooperation between the Centres for Social Work and the Employment Institute, including active information on the treatment of unemployed beneficiaries of financial social assistance, as well as the participation of the Centres for Social Work with social protection programme providers and organisations with humanitarian status. The aim of this measure is to ensure adequate integrated treatment and overcome obstacles to beneficiaries of monetary social assistance, with both the private interest of beneficiaries and the public interest important. In doing so, we are thinking in particular of the early or re-entry of the labour market and the cessation of economic dependence on the State. By storing data and evidence from the database on financial social assistance and data protection, the protective allowance for the purposes of the recovery procedure for unlawfully received rights from public funds, decision-making in judicial proceedings and legacy proceedings over a period of more than 5 years, planning of social inclusion policies, monitoring of the situation and for scientific research and statistical purposes, the applicant provided for a change in the length and access to such data, from 5 to 10 years after the termination of the right or until the conclusion of the judicial or administrative procedure. The bill provides for payment of cash social assistance for 3 months only in kind. That is, if the Education and Sports Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia finds in the criminal procedure that the student is not attending education or other activities under the compulsory primary school programme for unjustified reasons, the Inspectorate shall also inform the Centre for Social Work, or if the operator of the public service or educational institution informs the Centre for Social Work that the beneficiary has an unpaid debt, and submits evidence of failure to execute. With additions to the Home Committee, we have improved certain provisions and deleted others. As a result of the concerns and comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, we have thus deleted the provisions which initially provided that a legal probationary sentence for a criminal offence was to be imposed as a criminal offence for which a person would not be entitled to financial social assistance. In the Parliamentary Group, in particular, we will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Protection Benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Simonovic is next. He will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u76	Thank you for saying so, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia declares Slovenia as a social state and as such guarantees citizens the right to social security. The essence of the social transfers system offered by the State is, in its short-term, effective and in an encouraging nature, in the sense of realizing that each individual will make the most of his or her means of survival by honest work. The Constitution also states that the rights offered by the State to people are acquired under certain conditions that must be such as to justify the purpose of justice itself. Social transfers must be fairly distributed, and the objectives of targeted measures must also be transparent and efficient in the use of public funds. The Proposal for a New Law on Social Security Benefits aims at the objective of equitable distribution of public funds according to the needs of an individual or family and in view of the purpose of monetary social assistance, this is for those who really need it. In addition, it offers a more comprehensive treatment of the individual in order to help him survive and at the same time to ensure that he and his family members are able to play a role as soon as possible and as quickly as possible in the event of hardship and social threats. To this end, social assistance in cash is denied to those who are unwilling to help and encourage their school-bound children to be educated at least at the basic level and to those who neglect the issue of basic expenditure on life, such as paying rent, electricity, utilities and so on. In such cases, the payment of the bills will be taken directly by the State in order to prevent further indebtedness of the individual. In this way, it will help him from the vicious cycle of debt and possibly even prevent the worst borrowing scenario such as employment. Money social assistance will also be paid in the form of goods instead of money if the child does not attend primary school, which we know is compulsory. According to the Ministry of Education, there are 100 children each year who do not attend schools, taking away opportunities for a better and safer future. The purchase of school supplies, clothing, the payment of instructors are opportunities that open doors to children from a vicious circle of poverty, as among recipients of financial social assistance, 40 % of those who have only primary education or who do not even have one; therefore, in the Desus Group, we do not consider the exchange of aid in cash with specific goods as criminal. Furthermore, the proposal makes it possible to inform each other and to cooperate with the centres for social work and employment with a view to integrating individuals in an integrated manner with a view to bringing them into the labour market more actively and more rapidly. There is also a legal basis for cooperation between centres and social programme operators and humanitarian organisations with a view to the best possible resolution of obstacles to the individual benefits of financial social assistance, either because of mental health problems or because of problems with dependence or other social barriers, which prevent them from being fully involved in society. This also makes sense, according to our assessment, and has a positive contribution to improving people's lives. We will give new Members of the Desus Group our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kepa will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to my friends and friends. The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Security Benefits, which we are considering today, follows the objectives of actively addressing the social problems of recipients of monetary social assistance, amending the criminal grounds for not granting monetary social assistance and regulating the storage of data and documents from the database on monetary social assistance and the protection allowance. The proposed measures would ensure a fairer distribution of public funds according to the needs of an individual or family and in view of the purpose of monetary social assistance, namely that those who really need it receive assistance. It also ensures greater social security for an individual, with a view to enabling him to be fully addressed and assisted in survival in the event of distress and social distress, with the individual being able to assume as soon as possible the responsibility for the decent survival of himself and his family members. The objective of actively addressing social issues is urgently needed for the social work centres and the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia to cooperate and actively inform each other about the treatment of recipients. To this end, the applicant in the law in question proposes that social work centres, i.e. operators and organisations, may exchange information on identified options and relevant services, setting out the legal basis for their joint treatment and the legal basis for the exchange of those data. To this end, data on the activities of the employment plan, on employment objectives, on integration into labour market services, on the skills of the person and on identified barriers to integration into the labour market, on arrangements for the active resolution of the social problem, and on the activities of both institutions to address the problems of the beneficiary person would be exchanged. It is also proposed that cash social assistance be paid only in kind for three months if the Education and Sport Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia officially informs the competent social work centre of the initiation of a criminal procedure against the parents of a student who does not attend education or other activities under the compulsory primary school programme for unjustified reasons, or if the beneficiary has a debt to public economic services or educational institutions. As an additional ground for which no social assistance is granted to an individual, the law provides for the existence of a legal probationary sentence imposed on a person for a criminal offence. In addition, in the round of beneficiaries of monetary social assistance, convicts who have decided to take alternative leave of sentence at home and not in the institution where they are otherwise provided with stay and nutrition shall be included. In the event of a stay of sentence at home, the person shall be deprived of the means of survival and thus impose an additional financial burden on the other family members. With regard to the storage of data and documents from the database on financial social assistance and the protective allowance for the purposes of the recovery procedure for unlawfully received rights from public funds, in judicial proceedings and legacy proceedings for more than five years. [[Incomprehensible]] The proposal also provides for a change in the length of storage and access to such data from five to ten years after the termination of the right or until the conclusion of the judicial or administrative proceedings. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that all proposed legislative changes constitute a step in the right direction, in order to ensure regulation and to determine the rights to social security benefits, and that is why we will also support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u79	Thank you very much. He'll be like the last one. Marko Koprivc presented the position of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Vice President. Secretary of State! The social democrats of today's amended bill, which introduces a new sanction against the parents of pupils who do not attend lessons for unjustified reasons, will not be supported. The proposed solution, in our view, is underthinking, weak. However, the implementation of such a sanction can in practice bring more problems than benefits, as pointed out by both the Legislative and Legal Service, the Advocate of the principle of equality as well as the professional public, who are extremely critical to the proposal for a law or express great doubt as to the appropriateness of the proposed solutions. With the amendment, the coalition corrected only the most problematic constitutionally controversial part of the new sanctioning of parents, which envisaged the payment of social assistance in nature at the time of the initiation of the inspection procedure, rather than on the basis of a legal decision of the school inspectorate. Such a method of sanctioning would prejudge the outcome of the inspection procedure and violate the constitutional principle of alleged innocence. However, it remains problematic that the draft law does not make clear what it should mean for financial social assistance to be paid in kind. The question arises how social workers at social work centres will judge what an individual or family needs to survive at all. The proposed solution does not even define whether the recipient of financial social assistance may, in such a case, have the right to make a proposal of any kind of payment in its nature that is most appropriate and necessary for its own survival. Above all, it is important to note that monetary social assistance is not intended to promote education, but is intended to provide financial resources to meet the minimum needs of an individual or family who is socially at risk. It is also worth mentioning that only primary education is compulsory in Slovenia, meaning that only the parent of the student enrolled in primary school will be punished in this way. A student’s parents, who is enrolled in high school and who is also unjustifiably absent from school, will never receive such a sanction. In view of the professional public's warnings, however, there is also a unclear measure which provides for the payment of social cash in kind for persons in debt and debt owed to public economic service providers, kindergartens or schools. Overindebtedness in socially disadvantaged persons or families is often due to a variety of living circumstances that such individuals or families have only the financial difficulties and therefore need professional assistance, not sanctions. It is also unclear in this measure whether the purpose of the payment of social assistance in kind is also to pay the debt due due to public economic services or to kindergartens or schools, or to what extent and period this debt is to be paid and what procedure this debt should be paid in order to ensure that the criminal person is again entitled to social assistance in the form of money. The proposal also provides a new legal basis for the exchange of personal data among persons in social distress who receive professional assistance from social work centres and other institutions offering health rehabilitation or psychosocial assistance. In the light of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, although this law is not essentially disputed, it is not well defined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the Article and the amendment tabled to be carried out in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am therefore putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Members. Before I give my word to the discussers, would you like to speak to the proponent? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. With this amendment, which is proposed in New Slovenia, we only follow the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and regulate Article 4 as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I'm asking if there's any interest in the debate? I see it's an interest, so please sign up. We have four panellists. The first is Mr Vojko Starović, followed by Mr Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Look, when we are talking about social rights, and even when we are talking about rights, and we are already talking about these first three points that we have today in the meeting, we are constantly stopping with the expression of justice. We use justice. Justice, however, is a basic, direct pair of excellence criteria and leads to regulating relations between people and society. People have a very strong sense of justice even regulated, which is the result of our evolutionary development as social beings. You don't think it's the unique property of people since God's day, but the sense of justice is even inherent to many other living beings that work in a group, so they're social, they hold together to be able to do more. And that justice basically allows us to work together and work in large groups. But this righteousness, as we see in the more precise definition of what is righteous and what is not, does not help us much, even here in our National Assembly. The perception of justice varies greatly, depending on the context, the spirit of time, the general culture, I would say, the predominant values we have in society, the world view, the faith and also the specific position of an individual in a community and society. Today, in my position, I said we were introducing a system. By introducing a penal policy with this novel, we want to regulate society by imposing sanctions. And what values do we use in this regard? So when we're talking about human freedom, it's about choosing some things. No, now we want to direct and use some of the values that are past, from enlightenment we have said that it is not, we are looking for new values and different, although some say that either Slovenia will be Christian or it will not be. I don't think that's working. That we are in a free country, we have different opinions, different approaches. We can behave differently, but we need to know how to live with these differences. Look, we're looking at history, now I'm talking a little bit more, I'm sorry, but I think with the values that this novel brings, it's a step back. Historically, you've all learned history more or less, but the pharaohs lasted 3,000 years. An extremely stable society was this, with clear relations. The priests covered up knowledge, they ruled, the pharaohs, but in 3,000 years they made a very small movement of civilization, in profession, in science and so on. And if we look at Greek democracy, one town, one Athens, where they invented this democracy, that is, equality of people, equality, approach, everyone could go to that market and vote after the July judgment, in the 1970s, they made such movements of the world, where we still live -- what brings different opinions and different views. And if we want to have a social state, solidarity, let's stop thinking about how we're going to achieve this by punishing people, by using those who are different, gypsies to use this term, is directed at them, we can read articles, they've all seen it, against whom it's directed, and in what way we are a society. These retroactive values, which we want to introduce and enforce in this society, do not bring development to me. It's a one-brained thing. We want to reintroduce Enomamus. And those who do not follow these principles must be punished. Social assistance, however, is to help those who are poor who cannot survive either because of their personality or because they have become involved in something or because they do not know what or because of their culture, way, different thinking. So it makes me sick to introduce such ways into one democratic, free society, which is supposed to be based on a law that ensures the equality of all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Primož Siter, and the Magi is behind him. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u86	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Dear proposaler, I am angry when I read such marriage proposals when, on behalf of some social reforms, when I read or talk about social reforms and within them instead of talking about how to help people, you talk about how to sanction people for their poverty. Instead of jumping to help people in poverty, offer more, bring to the National Assembly a discussion on how they need to get this little thing back. And this is the bill we have on the table today. We can take social-money assistance if the family does not pay the bills for electricity or for water or for heating. And when after the defolk it's a family that can't pay for it itself and has social assistance for it, it's a social remedy, a social cushion that comes to the aid so that it can at least put that loaf of bread on the table. And it's either a power station, or a loaf of bread, or warm or full kids. And now, hitting a poor man with a hammer is coming social reform that is supposed to encourage these people. For what? To activate themselves on the labour market, to be creative citizens, to contribute to society if they do not have food. Or if the kid doesn't go to school. Yeah, I mean, which kids have a problem going to school if not from other socially disadvantaged environments. But those who are more vulnerable to emotional and psychological challenges if not to children from a weak environment. And which kids need extra help if not those from a socially weaker environment. Which families need additional assistance, not sanctions and penalties, if not those who already have difficulties living from month to month. And you suggest that this is a social reform that is a better situation for the weak in our society. I mean, you punish those who can't pay, I don't know, take out the trash. You're going to take social assistance from those people or from a kid who, I don't know, can't go to school. Instead of the country coming here, the social state has offered additional assistance if you are talking about aid in nature, to children and offer psychosocial assistance, free of charge, in public service, accessible, as this comes to pass and comes to some developed civilised society. No, let's give them social assistance. So that this Government, colleagues and colleagues, goes without thinking about any matter, without any sociological and social considerations, considering any matter instead of assisting in sanctions, forgets that the measures they are taking are already in existence in this case. Social workers already have the power to judge or see into the specific situation of one family, one child, one environment, and to judge how it is appropriate to pay for financial social assistance or a share of it in nature or materially. But yes, when a trained social worker who knows from case to case, from “case” to “case”, from child to child, from family to family, their difficulties, their problems they face, why they cannot pay electricity, why they cannot afford food, how this whole picture affects the mental, emotional development of this child in this family and then because a person, a social worker, a social worker is trained in the social profession and because he is human, because he can talk to a person, grapple and find the way that is best for this particular “case” family. Not some mechanical, automatic process. So we call it "usglazed" in the Bellies. This is such an approach to solving the social pressures of the population and the population is a total "ausglaise" from the social state, which is, of course, very helpful even if we rely a little on the previous point we discussed, to illustrate that the applicants have lost some contact with reality. They have proposed a paternity leave measure, such as where the adopter can apply this institution of paternity leave if he adopts a third child if the partners choose to adopt a third child, this institution of paternity leave may apply. But if I marry a partner and adopt a child from her first marriage, I'm not entitled to it. It's "usglazed"! These are the social policies of these governments or the publicity of these. In short, I'm sick of this antisocial government, to be honest, allow me a personal confession. I am sick and tired of the measures that degrade the already socially degraded, those who are pushed to the brink of society are taking even more to the brink of society, they are being subjected to the repression of the anti-social state, and they are still taking what could at least keep them in a decent life. And in the meantime, they find time to point their finger, say, at Levico, because they only speak, or the opposition, because it only speaks and only the chimp and gives nothing of itself and forgets to say that a hundred euro of additional social assistance has been signed by – who? Left. The raise of the minimum wage has been signed – who? Left. All we see is criminal policy. Criminal policy and family policy without any social, housing, psychological, sociological thought and dimension. Respectable representatives of the government or of the candidates, because you are essentially the same team, the measures you put on the table are not social. Ask any recipient of financial social assistance, a family in distress, how he feels about these measures. You don't hope for speed. And people who live below the poverty threshold - and most of them are users of such or other social transfers, in Slovenia we have them, I think almost 300,000, the epidemic has produced 30,000 new ones. And now is the time - with all the mass investment and so liberal spending of budget money in every direction, often unjustifiable - for the social state to actually become rich in the area of caring for the weakest. Nearly 300,000 people live below the poverty line, 40,000 of those before the epidemic were children. And we are talking, colleagues and colleagues, about children, about poor children, about the weakest, about children in families receiving money social assistance, not about offering sanctions instead.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State wanted the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will now speak as Secretary of State, but also as an expert in the field of social protection; I am a graduate lawyer and I have a professional examination, so I can also work as an expert. This country, this government never wants to dismantle the social system, ever. The same applies to the financial social assistance currently under discussion. The decision to pay cash social assistance in nature is and will – yes and will – remain a matter of professional judgment. The Centre for Social Work decides on monetary social assistance, takes into account the purpose of monetary social assistance, and we say that the Centre is acting on a discretionary basis. And in the same state of affairs, it chooses such a decision as is most prudent in terms of the purpose of monetary social assistance. Even today, he can decide whether to grant monetary social assistance in monetary or natural form. Only for specific cases, not to attend instruction or the existence of a debt that the creditor cannot recover, is a compulsory payment of cash social assistance in kind determined, and I stress that, while the Centre for Social Work is still the centre, there is still a clear discretion to assess, in the circumstances of the case, what kind of payment in nature is most appropriate for a particular case. Thus, the way in which cash social assistance is paid in kind is already in progress, namely, the law provides, in cases, that it is paid in the form of vouchers, orders, invoices and the like, so that no financial social assistance is taken away, remains and is paid in the way that is most appropriate for society. As far as children are concerned, we have already presented in the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act what has been going on for the last two, three years in the area of payment or promotion of family policy and parental protection. As far as adoption is concerned, I do not think it is the topic of today's law that we are discussing today, but I will also be able to explain when that law is being considered that it is not true. And just for the record, I'm going to repeat what I did in my previous marriage. We are preparing material to employ more than 120 professional workers at social work centres. This has never happened before that the number of professional employees will increase by about 10%, in agreement with the expertise and in a way that we will fairly divide these professionals. Where there's a greater need, where there's a greater mannequin there will be more. So I find it difficult to agree to the thesis that the social system is being dismantled, that it is forgotten about the profession and that it is decided just after some automaticity I am and there. The social profession remains a social profession, as I said, I am also an expert in this field, and God forbid that as a secretary of state someone working in the ministry against his own profession, we therefore support the development of the social profession, but, of course, we also need to know about justice, human rights is also a responsibility, both exist in the system of human rights, rights and responsibility for one another and for the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Primoz Siter has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u90	Thank you very much. See, I like to look at social policy or social policy through the eyes of a person, because at the end of the day, the person is the final recipient of the social state or the addressee of the social state. Thus, if a debt of payment for, say, garbage or garbage removal or utility or electricity payment was incurred in families with modest incomes because there was no money because it was necessary to decide on electricity or bread. What if money is actually needed for food, it needs gas, a bus to work, for, I don't know, a school in nature for a child, or you're going to take away such a mom, I don't know, that part of the social assistance she's getting and she's going to have to carry bills at CSD, invoices for some services she can't pay in advance so she can't give her two euros for ice cream? These are cases that need to be discussed, case bx case, so it is essential that social workers are the main player, colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state, the main player who has cards in hand because they know the situation on the ground.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Once again, the Secretary of State wanted the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u92	With the Member of the Left, I agree. Yes, the social profession is the one who helps, who understands, takes into account the needs of the individual and so on. That's why there's also one institute, but you know, extraordinary cash social assistance when the center can give it in case of an inability to pay. You gave, say, an electric bill. Yeah, or the washing machine breaks down. When someone can't pay for this, he goes to CSD and gets extra cash social assistance twice a year. And they come with electricity bills to pay because it's, say, an electric bill. It comes with it and it can be paid from this title. But it is always, of course, a social state, we know, a part of social policy, part of a comprehensive social policy, and it is also linked to economic policy. And we can do it. This, of course, can be much debated as to where this country is capable of covering these social needs of the entire population. But once again, the social state also exists to help people in emergency situations. It's an accident to calculate electricity because my colleagues from MZI were here, we're talking about auctions this year, yes, there's a possibility. Then there's something else I said. That is why it is an extraordinary measure, an extraordinary measure at the end of the road, this payment in the nature of monetary social assistance, and once again, after the expert at the social work centre has assessed it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u93	The next one has the word mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello to you all. When I look at this law and so on. I cannot help but say that this law reflects one right-wing policy, which builds on divisions based on race, religion, nationality, and adopts, under the cover of social reform, legal provisions which are directed at a specific community, which is living in one difficult situation and in the area also causes conflict and discomfort. And this law, of course, reflects and refers to a number of negative feelings and prejudices that say that these people should be punished. And that, of course, is what this law introduces. In particular, I would like to talk to you in Slovenia about what needs to be done, what we can do to improve the social situation of people, especially the most vulnerable. Among them are pensioners who, of course, deserve long - term care. And I would like us to discuss how we will pay for this long-term care, where we will provide the means, what the scope of the rights will be. This is what we stand for in the SAB, not that we adopt such laws, which are particularly attractive and address those most negative human feelings. The second is, of course, how pensions will be paid in the future. To do this, we need a demographic fund, which will also generate revenue from concessions and revenues from the logging forest, which is our national wealth. We should discuss this. How resources in the demographic fund will be accumulated and how this generation, which has created this property, can also draw on the funds and have future pensions. These are our priorities. And in the SAB, we are proud to have provided free cross-border bus transport and public transport, rail transport and this benefits pensioners. We raised the dose rate, cut the transition period. This is how social problems are solved. But not to be saved back with various vouchers and levies and not to be acted upon when the opposition warns that energy prices are rising. We've already warned you in the fall that you're going to have to react. Even then, the country could reduce VAT, abolish various duties, and now, somehow retroactively, unselectively, also gives cryptomillionaires a write-off of the network. Do you have any idea what's going on? A write-off of the power grid for crypto-rich miners. So where did we come from? Whom does this country, who does this government support, whom does this government subsidize? This is not the policy that we stand for, and this policy leads to a disintegration of the social state, and given that the Government adopts and proposes various tax burdens, especially those of the richest, but has not told how it will pay pensions, how it will ensure social security, then we see where this bill goes, which removes or restricts all these rights, and given that we have a large structural deficit of EUR 3 billion. The traveller is not good, we will get a headache, because of all these measures, which are unsocial and lead to the decomposition of our strong social state, so it is important that you all go to the elections on 24 April and trust the voice of the SAB party, which is a strong social liberal party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, allow me first to respond to your performance when you recently said that human rights must be earned. I think that's very controversial. Human rights for all citizens and citizens have been born, and in any case they must have, and this kind of interpretation of human rights is absolutely unacceptable. Now, if I may touch this very mini-social reform of yours, which I would say is rather anti-social reform than social reform. These two laws absolutely destroy the principle of righteousness. They want to evaluate the principle of justice and solidarity. Take a look at all this literally stressing money for all possible friends of Janez Janša now to squander at the most vulnerable it is absurd and this is indeed, I repeat, an absolute evaluation of the social policy so far and some neoliberal view of the understanding of the state and social policies that operate on the principle of punishment and that of automation. Tell me what the connection is between receiving financial social assistance by coming to school or not or attending primary school or not. It is said that we would be punished because a child simply does not attend the example of the primary school of the entire family and this family that needs this DSP for survival is not a luxury. This is indeed unacceptable and unacceptable, and I do not point out that the professional public was once again against such solutions, that there was no dialogue, that the Legislative and Legal Service in the National Assembly critically assessed these legal solutions, but that you refer to a demagogic public opinion survey. We all know how this is going: Are you in favour of money social assistance being distributed fairly? A demagogue and a misleading question. In short, such social reform or anti-social reform is harmful for the country. You accept it just before the elections because you're obviously assessing that it's good for your electoral body. I believe that the National Assembly will gather so much wisdom that it will not support such changes. Absolutely Social Democrats and the left hand side of this National Assembly are completely different in our understanding of social policy than you. This type of reform is a step backwards, a step towards conservativeism and a step towards decommissioning the social state. But we would give those, as you said, to the Secretary of State who has earned human rights. Disgusting and unworthy.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State wanted the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Never and nowhere in my professional work so far have I said that human rights must be earned. But I have always said that human rights on the one hand are rights, on the other hand there are responsibilities, duties. I've worked with people with disabilities my whole life. Look at my CV, and you'll see that I have in my collection of sources, publications over 250. Most of them are about human rights related to the lives of people with disabilities. I co-sponsored some proposals, including to amend the Constitution, I was in the section when the last amendment of Article 62a was being prepared, and in order to never earn human rights anywhere. Human rights are granted. On the other hand, they have a responsibility. And, of course, it is also part of social policy, justice-responsibility. That's a fact. And this will be made very clear by everyone, the theorist who works in the field of human rights. The fact that there will be something very clear is, of course, to be treated differently, according to the degree of diversity. This is also a well - known truth from the ancient Greeks. And that's all I wanted to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs. Horvath would like a word to discuss? [[Yeah.]] Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, Director-General of the Directorate, colleagues and colleagues. With regard to the amendment tabled under Article 4, as already stated by a colleague who is a carrier of this law, it is an amendment that, on a proposal, in fact, recommends the Law and Law Service, we are reshaping the article in order to define the concept of an active solution to the social problem. It's very simple. As far as social policy is concerned, our assessment is that the best social policy is the one that creates the environment, the economic, business environment, where it is relatively easy to create a new job, new jobs, and such with high added value, with high productivity, with high pay if you want. That is why, as Mr State Secretary has already said, economic policy and social policy are very closely linked. And it is perfectly normal for us to have a good economic policy in order to be able to finance the social state. Now, a fellow who said he was angry, I won't answer because rage has no place here in the National Assembly. As for the readings, I found myself here, Mr Starović likes to draw attention to my statement: “Europe will be a Christian, Slovenia will be a Christian.” I'm just quoting Robert Shuman, because you know him. And I'm not talking about religion, but I'm talking about values. But that's not the topic right now. The theme is a social package or package of social legislation that restores confidence in the social transfer system and the social state. A fairer system. We're here together. A fairer system of social transfers is possible. If it weren't for this axiom, then I wouldn't have been given to change this necessary, necessary amendments to this legislation. What do people in the field tell us? In the field, people often express their indisposition to us because they detect great anomalies in the social transfer system. Some say, depending on the nation or the province, some say, “Better socialists than the minimum.” Which means they want to say that it is not worth doing in Slovenia. There are calculations at the Ministry and so on that unfortunately this is largely true that it is not worth doing in Slovenia. But work must be of value. It has to be a value. And that is exactly what we are stressing in New Slovenia, and in this direction, even in accordance with our programme, we are working. Work makes us happy, work free, work fills us. And it is our duty as legislator to remove the anomalies we detect in the implementation of certain laws, in this case the anomalies in the system of social transfers, which have been present for years, and to establish a more equitable system of social transfers. Criticism, criticism that, above all, our worst political competition is of course welcome, it only shows that democracy is working in the country. It works so that this law, specifically on the committee, received support with a result of 9 to 1. Now, if it were 9 to 0, it'd be a little cheesy. Democracy is so small, someone has to be against it. That's perfectly normal. We all have different points of view on certain issues, but criticism that we are destroying the social state, which we are hearing here today, to introduce criminal policy, we are strongly rejecting. [[Incomprehensible]] It has been said that it is a penal policy, but no one has told who and how we punish. Please, dear fellows and colleagues! And yes, indeed, we have done something important, someone from this agency can do crazy work, who has measured the pulse in people who have measured or asked what they think about social policy, and I can say that the proposed changes are largely supported by citizens and citizens. We have carried out a study that expresses extremely high support for the proposed legislative changes. The one he wanted, I can share these materials with him. More than 90% of respondents support the proposal to amend legislation that limits abuses in the reception of monetary social assistance. Now, here's the thing. Are they abuse? Yeah, they're abusers. Do we have to eliminate them as legislator? This is our duty. But it's public money that's being abused. I must, I must, too, now that the Secretary of State has returned, I must also apologize to him for his overly harsh criticisms, fellow Members and colleagues. Someone who works in the social protection system deals with disabled people practically all his life and then here at one of the last meetings in this National Assembly gets such criticisms, the author of many laws, changes to the Constitution, professional members, etc., look, a small image wouldn't hurt. Also, if I continue to conduct a public opinion survey, two-thirds of respondents agree with the measure to eliminate money social assistance for unemployed people who are not active in finding employment or who cease to meet the other conditions required. Yeah, it sounds rough. Now, before the elections, you could say no, no, that's more. People don't agree. It is two thirds against the fact that this malversion simply needs to be eliminated. So there's no criminal policy. This, and once again, if the child does not continue to attend compulsory primary school, then one third of the child supplement is simply withdrawn because such a child supplement is structured. One-third for education, two-thirds for survival. But you pay for a painter who doesn't applaud your apartment. No, you don't. Well, maybe someone. Not me. and the evidence of conservativeism. I'm glad someone tells me I'm conservative. As far as values are concerned, yes. As far as the economy is concerned, I'm a liberal. What do you guys do for a living? The rotten cucumbers of the species or the best ones. We're the best. Valuable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? What if it's not yet? [[…]] Yes, Mr. Starovic. Here you go. Replica, Mr. Starovic, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. But since I have already been challenged by my colleague, he has forgotten to say or Slovenia will not if it is not Christian. I repeat his statement and say that I do not have to send these results of a study based on such suggestive questions. Are you in favour of non-corruption in Slovenia? Are you willing to pay less taxes? And similar questions; we know what the answers will be, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u103	Thank you very much. If there is no further interest in the debate, I conclude. The amendment will be decided on Wednesday or Thursday next week in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. TIME OF DAY — THIRD DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE MORNING LAW, ORIGINAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Aleš Mihelić.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished guests and my professional colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act, decided today by the National Assembly, was prepared on the basis of identified shortcomings in the implementation of administrative and other tasks, shortcomings identified in the judicial proceedings and on the basis of comments from the professional and other public. The application of the Mining Act in 2010 has shown some errors and internal inconsistencies, inconsistencies with other regulations, and some areas have been poorly regulated or have not been regulated at all. The main part of these shortcomings has already been addressed with previous novelties, and this novel is addressing subsequently identified shortcomings. The main changes introduced by the proposed amendment of the law are: to further introduce definitions of certain terms; to regulate specific cases of extension of mining rights and concessions; to introduce a modern, digital online application of the Mining Book; to prohibit hydraulic fracturing for the purpose of obtaining hydrocarbons or, as we would say, fracking. The competence of the operator of the area of mining for municipal spatial planning is transferred from the Ministry to the Geological Survey of Slovenia. The payment of the compensation for the mineral raw material obtained in the recovery of the illegal bath shall be arranged in cases where the mining right and the concession for exploitation shall cease before the recovery of the premises is effected. In addition, the area of transfer of mining rights in the event of bankruptcy of the concessionaire is covered. In addition, certain issues relating to the elimination of mining rights are addressed. The area of mineral raw materials is regulated in the implementation of construction works and in the construction of forest infrastructure. The area of complete and permanent suspension of mining works is new. The field of regulated mining professions is further regulated. Some of the misdemeanors he has committed in the past are redefined. A legal basis has been added to finance the monitoring and maintenance of permanent cave facilities after the closure of coal mines and it has been deleted as regards the establishment of a mining fund that has never come to life. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act thus represents the best possible consensus at a given time between the economic aspect of the exploitation of mineral raw materials, environmental aspects and social acceptability. That is why I propose to the National Assembly that it be accepted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mrs Tadeja Šuštar Zalar, who will present the position of the NSI Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act eliminates the various shortcomings of the 2010 Mining Act and its subsequent novelties. By defining the concept of hydraulic rock breaking, the legal void has been eliminated, allowing such technology to have been implemented in practice for over 50 years but not regulated. Thus, according to the new bill, the concept of extensive hydraulic fracturing is excluded from the law and no hydraulic fracturing is allowed regardless of the extent. The draft law allows for the extension of mining rights and concessions for the entire area of the acquisition space, but within the acquisition space, only those lands for which the concessionaire has ownership rights or a legal transaction with the owner are allowed. The proposed law also transfers the competence of the operator of the mining area for spatial planning from the Ministry of Infrastructure to the Geological Survey. As a result of advances in computer science, the concept and content of mining books is being defined. Thus, according to the new mining book, an online computer program consisting of a database of mining data, records and various applications for the preparation and submission of applications and forms provided for by this law. On the other hand, the online mining book is being upgraded, data regularly updated, and new modules with records, applications, notification forms and so on are being developed. The new regime will significantly simplify the procedure for the suspension of exploitation when the exploitation is completed in accordance with the concession contract, and also in cases where, for various reasons, the exploitation is abandoned in certain parts of the acquisition area where the concessionaire has not intervened and has remained in natural condition, while at the same time regulating the procedure for the early termination of exploitation. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we are pleased that the amendment of the law makes the content of the application for a decision on the cessation of rights and the obligation of the mining right to exploitation easier and more rational. In this way, the new concessionaire will only have to attach to the application mining projects after which he carried out the exploitation and abandonment of exploitation, projects with which he already has the resources and the necessary declarations and evidence that they are carried out in accordance with the project documentation. Due to all the positive news introduced by the amendment of the law, we will also unanimously support Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, the law on changes and additions to the mining law in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u108	Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Today there is a decisive action before us in the consideration of the Mining Act, a law that we had on the table several times in this mandate. Most of these were opposition proposals, this time we are considering a government proposal. This one addresses different areas. Among other things, certain new concepts are identified, the fixing of compensation for mineral raw materials obtained, for debtors of the recovery of illegal bathing, and some issues related to the extinguishment of mining rights and the acquisition of mineral substances in the execution of public works are more clearly addressed. Mining is an important economic sector, so it is essential that it is managed hand in hand with actual developments in practice and that the umbrella law is adapted in accordance with the shortcomings demonstrated by practice. It is only in this way that the industry can, in terms of its efficiency at the highest level and the strongest and we know that only a strong economy leads to a strong social state, higher wages and higher pensions. Many of the solutions presented by the proposal already contained a law that was created at the time of the Ministry's leadership by our mag president. Alenka Bratusek. These are changes related to the management of mineral raw materials, some also because their inadequacy has been revealed by practice. But there is a big difference between the law of the day and that version when we received it in the parliamentary branch in January. The 2019 proposal did not touch the extremely hot area of the last years of fracking. We are pleased that we have reached consensus in the legislative process and that fracking after the last vote on the law in Slovenia will be truly and completely prohibited. The harmfulness of this technology recognises an ever-increasing part of Europe. And being harmful is not an assumption, but a fact. Its effects are reflected in various environmental impacts. There are biseptic activity, possession, water pollution abroad, if I can only say some. We are therefore pleased that the members of the coalition and the opposition have united. The struggle for the population of northeastern Slovenia, which we served as an entire mandate, produced fruit. The draft law will be supported by the Members of the SAB Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honourable Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues. The Mine Action Act, which is today in the final part of the legislative process, removes some systemic shortcomings of the current law and removes administrative obstacles. The draft law thus provides a basis for the single and effective management of mineral raw materials and allows for the extension of existing mining rights for exploitation. It also introduces simplification and better regulation of procedures in the field of suspension of exploitation. The proposal further details the scope of the regulated mining professions and the area of inspection supervision. It also provides for more effective action in the case of illegal spears and creates better conditions for reducing the grey economy. The Novela further extends the competences of operators for spatial planning at the local level from the Ministry of Mining to the Geological Institute of the Republic of Slovenia. The concept and content of the mining book are newly defined, the possibility of including various records and various applications to assist in the application, notification of the bases for the assessment of mining concessions and means of recovery, stock and resources reporting and so on. We are pleased that a similar simplification of procedures based on digitisation is being introduced in several areas and the law under consideration today is no exception. Removing administrative barriers is an important aspect of improving the quality of life of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the bill regulates a number of other relations. However, the debate during the legislative process focused mainly on the prohibition of hydraulic fracturing for the production of hydrocarbons. We are pleased that we have reached consensus and have thus completely banned this kind of exploitation of soil that can pose a threat to the environment and to citizens. In the DeSUS Group, we have always warned that such a prohibition is necessary in particular in the light of the right to a healthy living environment of the population in areas where such interventions could be carried out. We welcome the decision of Members and Members, which we have also joined Members of the DeSUS Group to prevent the method in its entirety. During the legislative process, many supplements were adopted that helped to improve the text of the articles of the law itself. We therefore believe that the law responds adequately to the needs of mining, which is an important factor in social development. That is why the Members of the DeSUS Group will unanimously support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Ambassador of the Slovenian National Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u112	Nice greetings to all present. The state-level elections are approaching, and it is therefore appropriate to consider the latter in this mandate, i.e. the third consideration of the proposal under consideration. We believe that the bill provides a good solution for our citizens and citizens, as well as for the environment. Many of the amendments tabled have rectified certain anomalies or shortcomings that have been shown during the first and second reading of the proposal of the Mining Act. The Slovenian national party scrupulously fought for a total ban on fracking or hydraulic fracturing. On the pretzel and current topic of mining, fracking had already been overrun with many words in this very temple of democracy, but what if the outcome of the vote was not inclined to do so as we would like. This important subject was discussed long and wide. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has so fully understood that most Slovenes and Slovenes do not want to be banned only by extensive hydraulic fracturing. The law also raised a lot of dust among various stakeholders, which, among other things, does not matter that foreigners would drill through our Prekmurje. In the Slovenian National Party, we stand firm for the belief that there can be no freaking in our country from below the Alps, because we give first priority to the safety and health of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We also care about our animals, environment, and nature, which surrounds us and inspires us day after day. For our next generation, we want them to walk on solid earth, drink solid water, and breathe clean air. All of this will be possible for our future generations if we have a smart policy that can say decisively not to freak out. Unfortunately, we live in a time when we must decide and put money or health on the scale. We believe that the Slovenians are more concerned with the pure environment than with the dirty foreign money. Climate change itself will be cruel to our humanity, so let us at least take care of our groundwaters, aquifers, so that they do not come from harmful chemicals. That I don't even lose words about any earthquakes because in Slovenia at least the second, the third day is shaking somewhere, but the person doesn't have a good feeling when he notices or hears that it's shaking. With freaking, we'd still be able to flaunt and step up what we don't have to do. The fact is that the harmful, irreparable consequences will be felt primarily by the Slovenians on their own skin, and no one will be responsible for taking the blame and appropriate sanctions. The law brings many good principal solutions, so it is not bad. Most in the sky are the solutions, or not the solutions, that concern a very populist and all-inspiring freaking. We want a law that will be good for all parties on the political floor only that the Slovenian nation and our nature, which alone will not suffer too much damage.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Kepa will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u114	Nice greetings, presidents, secretaries, colleagues, colleagues! The Mining Act is currently in force on 14. Seven. 2021 The Act on intervention measures to assist the economy and tourism in facilitating the impact of the Covid-19 epidemic, by virtue of Article 11, which, irrespective of Article 50 of the Mining Act, Article 1 of the Mining Rights Act, may be extended by 18 months on the proposal of the concessionaire. The government has promised to prepare a new, better proposal for the Mining Act, which also deals with the management of mineral raw materials, namely the prohibition of large-scale hydraulic fracturing. The proposed amendment thus eliminates some systemic shortcomings of the current law, simplifies and reduces certain procedures. Those who are unclear are regulated. In this way, the procedures governed by the amendment will be clearer and more transparent, and some will be considerably shorter. The amendment also complements certain provisions on inspection supervision and lays down fines for offences for which the inspectors have not yet been detected but which have not yet had the legal basis for action. The draft law provides for the following main solutions: the definition of certain new concepts and the clear definition of those that may have been interpreted differently; the prohibition of large-scale hydraulic fracturing; the definition of the role of the Geological Survey in the preparation of general and concrete guidelines in municipal and national spatial planning procedures. Determination of the refund for the mineral raw material obtained for the debtor of the recovery of the illegal bath. A clearer regulation of some issues regarding the elimination of mining rights. More clear arrangements for the extraction of mineral raw materials in the execution of construction works and identification of specificities in the implementation of state projects. Simplification and regulation, complete and permanent suspension of mining operations. Regulation to extend existing mining rights to exploitation in certain specific cases. With the adoption of the law, several positive environmental impacts are expected, further regulation of the area of illegal mining works is expected to reduce illegal interventions into the environment or into the premises, further regulation of the procedures for the suspension of mining works and the definition of different types of rehabilitations and restrictions, and in this regard an improvement in the situation in the area of the rehabilitation of production facilities is expected after the completion of the exploitation of mineral raw materials. Several amendments were tabled by the coalition, which are completely nomotechnic corrections. The comments of the Legal and Legislative Services were also taken into account. In the SDS Parliamentary Group, we will unanimously support the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Robert Pavšič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u116	Well, hello, all of you! In fact, man can only exhale after this long-standing saga of the ban on fracking, but apparently even today some do not know that when we vote we will vote on the complete ban on fracking, not on the massive dramatic crackdown that has emerged from this law, of course, on the terrible pressures of the opposition Members. However, as always in this law has come to the surface in the last two years, a very manifest and demonstrated practice, that even in such good solutions there is always one that is very catastrophic. How, then, should the responsible Member, the Group of Members, confirm such a law? It's not working. I am pleased that we have succeeded in what is most crucial and that we have protected Prekmurje from harmful mining operations, but I am sorry that there are still certain provisions in the law that are or may be harmful, but are fully in the way of this policy and these ruling clicks. We will not oppose the marriage in the letter of Marjana Sharca, nor will we support it. There is another matter that needs to be highlighted and wished for a man who is no longer here today, that is, Mr Kosorok, the Secretary, good luck in his new job. We've already argued with him, argued, and in the end we've been able to ban this damn cracking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Željko Cigler will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u118	President, thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a Law on Supplements and Amendments to the Mining Act currently under consideration was only introduced by the Government to the National Assembly after the repeated introduction of the same law, at least as regards the prohibition of fracking with similar solutions by the opposition. It is not clear why we had to invest so many times in the opposition this law that the Government finally realized that this matter must be settled, because it is essential for the normal life and development of this country for the people living here, especially for the part that would be most affected here and that is Prekmurje this is the Petišovci. I think whether the government did so because of the pressure exerted by the opposition, including civil society and the profession in Slovenia, or whether it was the legal proposal that we are considering today, in fact at the table by the government or with a slight review of this and the consent of the competent ministry. However, today we have a third reading and decision on the final content of this law. We also had a general debate on the law, in which Members and Members of the Left or the Social Democrats and the rest of the House found that there were still some things in the law that we disagree with and need to be better regulated. However, a complete ban on fracking has been achieved. The proposal has several essential objectives, according to the motioners, and if adopted, it will provide the basis for a uniform and effective management of mineral raw materials, extend existing mining rights to exploit and remove various administrative obstacles, as well as simplify the procedures for abandoning mineral exploitation in our country, for example, by closing mines. The government sees solutions to meet the objectives in identifying some new concepts. We would ban – and achieve – total hydraulic fracturing or fracturing, including the role of the Geological Survey of Slovenia, has defined and would clearly address certain issues in connection with the elimination of mining rights, would prolong existing mining rights of exploitation in certain specific cases. Members and Members of the Social Democrats, we have taken advantage of the legislative proposal we have received by examining it and during the examination and discussion process, concluding that the solutions that are recorded are not relevant. But there are some that we have not been able to correct in the first reading and, unfortunately, so far; we will complement them in further consideration of this law in the coming term. The worst solution in the eyes is the complete prohibition of hydraulic fracturing. Social Democrats believe that in the area of Slovenia such a complete ban on fracking or hydraulic fracturing is ultimately necessary to vote. And that is also the key solution that this law proposes, which I have already said before, that we have tabled in the opposition quite a few readings of this law, unfortunately unsuccessfully, and we are now finally agreeing with all the Members of the National Assembly on this. Fracking was eventually banned, but the question, or doubt, still exists, why it did not take place earlier and why all the rulings on this matter have now reconsidered whether this is merely a matter of deliberation or political pressure. However, whatever we say when the law is passed, it is valid and the cracking in this country is prohibited. Since hydraulic fracturing is harmful, this has been demonstrated and confirmed on several occasions abroad. More and more countries in Europe and the world are abandoning and banning such a way of extracting minerals. Finally, Slovenia is joining these countries. We are pleased that we have finally decided to completely prevent hydraulic fracturing or fracturing in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Cigler, was this a common position with Levica, or would the Left have a position? [[Laugh]] Come on, Sitter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Five times in Levica, in this mandate, we have proposed a ban on fracking. Five times! And five times the ruling coalition lifted this ban, twice on the committee and three times at the plenary session of the National Assembly. The argument at the outset was that we must not ban fracking, because then the British corporation will sue us at an ad hoc international tribunal where we will lose and then Slovenia will have to pay millions of damages. Let's wait for the British to run out of gas concessions in Petišovci, the procedures for obtaining permits are being drawn to them in one way or another, and the problem will be solved on its own. The same ruling coalition then passed an anti-Korona law, in which the Government imposed an article on the extension of mining concessions. But in Levica, with our efforts to ban fracking, we did not, of course, give up. We have continued to table the Law on the Prohibition of Frakking over and over again. Then it is unknown who, after Prekmurje, spread rumors that by this law we will ban the use of geothermal energy, which is a complete lie because we have clearly stated in the law that the prohibition applies exclusively to the use of hydrocarbons, namely oil and gas. Finally, not long ago, the ruling coalition broke our marriage because the government has now prepared a novel on the Mining Act, which will systematically disable the cracking. And here we were witnessing games and blinding, the law first forbade a so-called large-scale cracking with a deceptive plot of fracking in which thousands of cubic meters or more of water to the breaking phase, or ten thousand cubic meters or more of water in the whole process. In short, the so-called ban on fracking was originally set up in law so that everything the British wanted to do in Petišovci was allowed to do, that is, cracking up to 9,000 999 cubicles, yes, 10,000 cubic metres. Then they finally realized that there were 47 votes in the National Assembly for a complete ban on fracking, that their amendment would fall if the amendment did not completely prohibit fracking, more or less large, that we had little doubt that such an amendment would be seen, given the five-fold rejection of the prohibition of hydraulic fracturing, the extension of corporate concessions that would have been carried out in Petisovci and how the last act on the prohibition of fracking was rejected on a committee where the composition did not reflect the majority support that the law had previously received at the plenary session of the National Assembly. Well, there has been a miraculous amendment, which finally and definitively prohibits all incarnations of the now inexorably fracking, and we welcome that in Levica. Unfortunately, juggling with a permissible and unacceptable form of fracturing was not the only contentious substance on the bill. Indeed, what the congregations say is, the law is actually read as if miners have some natural right to mining and it is necessary to adjust the law so that they can continue to have this right. Here we still have a simplification of the mining abandonment process, and that the applications for a decision to terminate the rights and obligations of mining law will no longer have to be accompanied by a revised rehabilitation project, because the mining project by which it exploited and abandoned exploitation is sufficient and the rehabilitation is clearly a third concern. And there's more. In short, adapting legislation to mining rights instead of adapting them to legislation, again some administrative burdens, which, of course, will probably go back to capital and to the detriment of nature and people. In Levi, we will abstain from voting this time, thanks to the definitive ban on fracking, which does not mean that we must remain uncritical of the other limited weaknesses of this marriage proposal because of this difficult to win. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-31-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are going to discuss the articles and the amendments tabled to be made in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and in particular. Amanda is editorial in nature. Anybody want a word? He doesn't want to. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendments of the SDS, NSI and in particular. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 19 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and in particular. Does he want a word here? No, no, no. I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate article 62a and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and in particular. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 67 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and in particular. Anybody want to talk? No, that's why I'm closing the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendments to be decided on Wednesday, 6 April 2022 and Thursday, 7 April 2022 in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the meeting. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 99th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed on Wednesday, 6 April at 9 a.m. Rest until then and say good-bye!
