ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 29th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Bojana Muršič by 3 p.m., Alenka Jeraj, Jani Prednik, mag. Mark Koprivc from 18:00 on, Dr. Franc Trček, Nada Brinovšek, Susanna Beautiful Šimenko, mag. Carmen Furman, Nick Prebil, Aljaž Kovacic, Iva Dimic, Alexander Reberšek, Tadeja Šuštar Zalar from 13:00 on, Franz Rosec, Leon Merjasec, mag. Meira Hot, Monica Gregorčič and Daniel Krivec. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to four. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE BREAKDOWN AND DISTRIBUTION OF CURRENT RISK BREAKDOWN BREAKDOWN BREAKDOWN BREAKDOWN BREAKDOWN BREAKDOWN BREAKDOWN BREAKDOWN BREAKDOWN IN SWITZERLAND, REQUIRED PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the National Council for consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Alojz Kovška.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In accordance with the available time of five minutes, I will no longer talk about the content of the bill itself, but I will try to point out only a few key points, which we believe is the right thing to support and adopt this law. The Republic of Slovenia has done virtually nothing to address the problems of credits nominated in Swiss francs in ten years as legislative and executive authorities, unlike the other European Union countries. Commercial banks have also been convicted of the same business practices in some European Union countries, such as the case of BNP Paribas, France. So in Slovenia we are lagging behind, we are late. I would like to point out that the proposal for a law is in no way inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia or with the European legal order - if necessary, of course, it will be judged by the Constitutional Court - and similar legal solutions have undergone a constitutional review in other Member States of the European Union. The resolution of the problem of credits nominated in Swiss francs is currently impossible in the Republic of Slovenia. Why? Because case law is not uniform, procedures are too long and unreasonablely expensive. Because of this uneven case law, which we believe will continue, it is certain that this issue will eventually end up in the European Court of Human Rights, which will socialise the obligations of banks to borrowers and impose them on the State. The Bank of Slovenia, in our case, was aware of the risk of credits nominated in Swiss francs, but we can say that it did not play its regulatory role sufficiently if we compare the behaviour of the Bank of Slovenia with that of other regulators across the European Union and with those of these regulators across the European Union. The bill that we are considering today is therefore due to the continued circumvention of banks as a result of any liability for unfair business practices in the past and also to the failure of banks to settle with borrowers. The letter sent by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to the legislature is said to the National Assembly, going somehow completely beyond the fact that the banks had the opportunity to agree with the borrowers provided by the previous government. If you remember correctly, the agreement between the Ministry of Finance, Banks and Borrowers was to resolve this issue in some way, and a deadline was set which banks did not respect, followed instructions and failed to fulfil their obligations to the Ministry of Finance. The Association of Banks also deceives about the number of loans paid. They say that more than 50 per cent of these loans have been paid in 2012 and the ECB's data show otherwise and is essentially misleading. Let me also say that the main objective of the law is the distribution and limitation of monetary risk between borrowers and between banks, but it is not socialisation or social protection for borrowers. It is only about maintaining existing credit agreements and the possibility of paying off credits. In doing so, banks will generate normal profits and borrowers will maintain their creditworthiness. The law intervenes exclusively and only in an invalid contractual relationship. So once again: it is not about solving social problems, it is about eliminating unfair contractual conditions and preventing similar non-business practices for the future. The law is also technically feasible. There were a few indications that it was impossible to do what the law said. Of course it's possible because there's information on credit contracts! In 2015, the banks knew that the actions to achieve the nullity of the contracts had been initiated. These actions do not have an expiry date, so the banks were obliged to maintain this data. But if they don't have them, the borrowers have them. Mr. President, just 10 to 15 seconds. The law certainly increases the level of legal certainty and predictability of the business environment, contrary to the bank's claims that it reduces confidence. And, ladies Members, consumer security is in the public interest. Finally, all I am saying is that the law is economically justified. Many citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will be granted normal life, creditworthiness, development capacity and also new earnings to banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u3	Thank you very much. For further explanation of the bill, I apologize to the representative. [[…]] The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 43rd meeting, on 19 January this year, the Financial Committee considered as a parent the proposal for a law on the limitation and allocation of monetary risk between lenders and lenders of loans in Swiss francs submitted to the National Council. In the introduction, a representative of the Council of State presented in more detail the objectives and purposes of the bill and the proposed solutions. The binding of long-term credit contracts to the Swiss franc exchange rate has, under its credit agreement, transformed it into a complex financial instrument that is difficult to understand to borrowers who were not well aware of the currency risk. The purpose of the bill is to restructure these loans by limiting the currency risk. The limitation instrument is a currency cap. This is activated when, due to a change in the exchange rate, the amount of the balance of the loan or the amount of the annuity exceeds 5 per cent of the balance of the loan or the amount of the annuity calculated after the exchange rate on the day of drawing the credit. The representative of the Government, the Secretary of State, explained the reasons why the Government does not support the bill and considers that the law is not suitable for further consideration. In the Government's view, systemic interventions in civil law relations should be as low as possible and the possibilities of resolving the problem already created by existing legislation should be exploited. In the context of the general comments drawn up by the Office, the Legislative and Legal Service drew attention to the contention of the draft law in the light of Article 155 of the Constitution, which prohibits retroactivity, and set out in detail the criteria for allowing retroactivity. In addition to its general comments, she also presented the comments of the service on certain specific articles of the bill. In the debate, some Members who disagreed with the bill pointed out that borrowing of loans with a currency clause was very risky and that it was speculative transactions, as the interest rate on credit in Swiss francs was also unusually low at the time. They cautioned that borrowers are at risk when they take credit and that they also show a risk-to-risk attitude in each individual, so their personal economic decisions cannot be regulated and cannot be regulated by law. On the other hand, some other discussers supported the bill and felt that the proposed solutions would finally solve the issue of credits, as there had been some unsuccessful attempts to resolve it. They warned that this was not a business but that people were hiring loans to solve their housing problems, but that it was in fact mortgage loans and that the problem of credits covered some 32 thousand families. They warned that the agreement between the banks and the Frank Association had not been reached in all these years, so it is only right that this issue should be regulated legislatively. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 2, 5 and 12 of the draft law in accordance with Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In particular, I stress the amendment to Article 5, which raised the percentage of the currency cap from the initial proposed 5 per cent to 10 per cent. After the discussion, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the draft law together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u5	Thank you. For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr Katji Lautar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u6	Your Honor, thank you for the opportunity to present the opinion of the Government! On 27 May 2021, the Government adopted an opinion on the Proposal for a Law on the limitation and allocation of monetary risk between lenders and borrowers in Swiss francs. In the context of this opinion, there are arguments on the basis of which the Government does not support the proposal for a law and consequently considers that the law is not suitable for further consideration. In the view of the Government, systemic interventions in civil law relations should be as low as possible, while at the same time taking advantage of the potential for solving the problem already covered by existing legislation. Allow me to briefly present five aspects which the Government considers to be crucial. First time. The bank's accounts shall cover all banks without prejudice to the previous content of these practices, either by Banka Slovenije as the competent authority for bank supervision or by the court. The government cannot agree with the general indications of the proposed law that, in the credit relationship of the bank, creditors should be brought into an unequal position, in violation of the principles of civil law and that consumers should not have experience in concluding such contractual relations. Another time. With regard to the notice of the regulator, it summarises some of the explanations provided by the Bank of Slovenia to the National Assembly in the past. The Bank of Slovenia points out, inter alia, that the indications that it was not active in this area are not accurate. Third time. The draft law interferes with the established civil law relations between banks and borrowers. The proposal for a law requires banks to prepare a new proposal for a treaty on the regulation of mutual relations. With regard to the following, three aspects are highlighted: decision-making for the conclusion of a contractual relationship must be free; credit contracts are a bilateral legal transaction between the bank and the consumer; possible legal proceedings in existing or concluded civil law relations can only be determined exceptionally. Fourth time. The government recalls the ban on retroactive effect of the law and in this regard also highlights the European Central Bank's warning given in the past with regard to similar proposals of the law. Among other things, the ECB considers that the imposition of measures with retroactive effect poses a threat to legal certainty and does not comply with the principle of legitimate expectations, as well as interventions into acquired rights. Fifth. The proposal does not include an analysis of the impact on the economy. In this respect, it is also appropriate to highlight the possible negative potential effects on the banking sector, inter alia, because of the inability to transfer bad loans from the bank balance sheets, which may affect financial stability, and consequently the possibility of lending the economy can be reversed. Finally, it is not appropriate to overlook the possibilities already existing legislation and practice to address such situations. Let me put in particular an out-of-court negotiated solution to the problem. For this reason, as stated above, the Government does not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Luka Mesec will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u8	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! In Levi, we support this proposal for a law; last but not least in 2017, under the then government of Mira Cerar, we first proposed a similar law to settle the injustices committed to borrowers in Swiss francs. There's a few things you need to know here. First, between 2004 and 2011, banks were mass advertisers in Swiss francs, deceiving that these loans were safe. Another time. The people who rented these loans were not speculators, but they were people who needed a roof over their heads. As we have heard in previous opinions, it was more or less mortgage loans, i.e. loans for a house, an apartment, and people simply chose the option that the bank presented to them as the most favourable but safe option. Third time. These people weren't for a handful, but there were 32,000. If we are talking about 32,000 households or families, it has, say, three members each, that means that we are talking about 96,000 people, that is, virtually 5% of the Slovenian population that got caught up in this loop. Fourth time. All analogies with investors in crypto currency and so on are wrong because in crypto currencies it is clear that cryptocurrency currencies vary from day to day and no one buys cryptocurrency currencies out of existential distress or because you would need a roof over your head, but buys them because of additional earnings. Credits in Swiss francs, and people were hired for an existential need, which is a roof over their heads. And one last time. The banks transferred all the risk to the borrowers. What it looked like, and we can illustrate with this example. In 2008, the borrower rented a loan in Swiss francs. The capital was 100,000 euros, which he also received, the interest rate was 6 months pound plus 1.72 percent. At the time, the monthly meal was EUR 637 and at the end of January 2015 it was EUR 773. So far, everything is normal, there has been a slight increase in the monthly meal, but in the meantime the relationship between the euro and the Swiss franc has fallen and the bank has passed all the risk on the borrower, but from the capital of EUR 100,000, the amount it has rented in 2008 and by 2015 it has repaid 56,000, but its debt has not been reduced in those seven years, but the meeting has increased to EUR 110 000. So, you see, between 2008 and 2015, the borrower paid 56,000 euros, because the bank that sold the loan to him didn't want to take any risks, its principal actually increased from EUR 100 to EUR 110 000 in these seven years. And that's what we're talking about, this injustice that needs to be settled. That's why, as we say, we're going to support the marriage in Levica. I think that you are Members of Parliament before a simple choice: whether you will take sides with people, which is in particular almost 5 percent of the Slovenian population, or on the side of banks. We hear from the Government that the adoption of this law is supposed to pose certain risks to the Slovenian financial or private banking sector. I'll just give you a few details before I finish. Credits in Swiss francs are still EUR 300 million, which is 2.8% of all bank loans. In the first eight months of last year, banks generated 402m euros in profits. The return on capital before tax was 9.9%. So it's almost a 10% profit. Finally, last year, the balance sheet sum of Slovenian banks increased by as much as 2.77 billion euros and reached 47 billion euros. And now, if you ask yourself whether a fraction of these 300 million credits in Swiss francs that weighs 5% of Slovenian households can be drowned in a balance sheet of 47 billion, the profitability is almost 10%, and the profit of last year was only EUR 402 million, I will respond; yes, of course, no risk to the Slovenian banking sector is represented by this law. I'll introduce our amendment later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! At the end of the last century, I had a loan myself, a residential one, with a currency clause, which hit me hard, but I paid it off easily in a way that for 10 years the family did not go on vacation. But now for the moment. We have before us a proposal for a law that represents a new experiment in a series of bill proposals that addressed the issue of credit contracts dominated by Swiss francs or by a currency clause in Swiss francs. The main difference compared to previous bill proposals is that similar proposals in the past have provided for the conversion of loans into euro, and this bill provides for the institution of the so-called currency cap. The main objectives and main issues related to the problem remain the same. Before deciding on this law, we are faced with the difficulty of weighing different principles. On the one hand, we have respect for the freedom and responsibility of the entities in concluding such important contracts, and on the other hand, we have a desire to overcome the plight of untapped borrowers who are in a difficult position. Let me remind you, these kind of contracts, when it comes to mortgage loans, have to be certified by law. This ordinary contract shall read and ask the Parties in public before the Parties if they have understood the text. A quick review of the solution of the proposal raises the issue of the principle of prohibition and retroactive application of laws. The proposal for a readmission intervenes in already concluded contracts between private entities. Such an intervention by the State may create uncertainty among citizens, businesses and investors about similar interference with the authorities in the future. Can we still be confident that in our country, in the future as well as in other areas, the principle of the sunt servand pacta still applies? This is a Latin term for the obligation to fulfil contractual obligations. This is not an easy question, but it is extremely important because the obligation to fulfil the contractual obligations entered into is one of the foundations for a stable and secure business environment in the social market economy. The Legislative and Legal Service points out that, although the drafter refers to social justice, it is not in the text itself to understand the criteria or criteria that would follow that purpose. The proposal treats all borrowers equally, regardless of their financial situation and regardless of the type or purpose of the loan. If we simplify, the proposal of the law for a readmission saves so many uneducated individuals who are now in great social distress – and we feel for them – as well as those who have been very well aware of the risks and are today, despite loans in a stable social situation. Some have taken these loans to solve their first and only housing problem, the housing issue. Others who took, say, 600,000 Swiss francs of credit, probably not. On the other hand, we hear that there are many individuals who have not been adequately informed at the bank window about all the risks that such a currency clause entails. Some may even have received false assurances that such credit is completely secure. In the midst of the hardships of various life situations, even the only way to reach housing credit was for a large loan in Swiss francs. Solidarity and compassion for all of these people, who have been uneducated or even misled in a difficult situation, are human. We are aware that the most systematic solution to this problem would be through individual judicial proceedings. An individual procedure could identify the situation and assess the possible unfair contractual conditions in each case. On the other hand, the applicant draws attention to the longevity of such procedures and to the additional cost burden on creditors. When Members of New Slovenia weigh all these aspects and principles, we come to different conclusions as to whether the scale bends to the support side or to the rejection of the bill. For this reason, the votes of the MEPs and Members of the Nova Slovenija Group on this bill will be different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u12	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! Credits in Swiss francs were significantly more favourable due to the lower value of francs compared to euro. For the same reason, housing loans were granted to a large number of borrowers who were not able to rent in euro. Later, the value of the Swiss franc increased by as much as 30 per cent compared to the euro. This meant that the credit obligation of the borrowers had increased. The larger credit obligation was manifested in higher monthly meals and the amount of the unpaid principal. In the opinion of the Council, the bank is responsible for the situation, which did not inform the borrowers at the time of the conclusion of the contract of all the risks and circumstances of the lease of long-term loans in foreign currency. For this reason, the proposed law imposes an obligation on business banks to convert all credits from francs to euro. It requires creditors to offer new contracts to all those who have entered into credit contracts in francs and to distribute foreign exchange risk in them. Such a rule would apply to all contracts regardless of whether such a contract has already ceased due to payment, cancellation by the bank or if the bank has resold the debt claim. Banks are obliged to repay to borrowers the difference between the amount owed by borrowers for the use of Swiss francs and the amount owed to them if they leased in their domestic currency, in euro. On the rise of the Swiss franc, many borrowers reacted years ago in a way that either converted their loans into euro or increased risk solved in a way that was forgiven by their financial situation. Many of them have filed lawsuits against business banks in which banks are denied the duty of explanation and thus the deception of people. Today, many disputes are already legally concluded. The failure of these procedures now seeks to remedy the State Council with the proposed law. In the SAB Group, we believe that banks that have failed to fulfil their explanatory duties must be held accountable. However, we believe that the assessment of each specific contract and the given explanatory duties must be left to the Court. The legal profession strongly warns that the law before us seriously interferes with trust in the rule of law and is strongly inconsistent with the Constitution. For the law interferes with the contractual relationship between banks and borrowers and wants to change the contracts back. If we agreed to do so, we could consider tomorrow a law that would save borrowers, all those who have leased loans with a variable interest rate. This one is lower, but more risk than fixed. If I cariculate, these borrowers could refer to the fact that they did not expect a variable interest rate to grow and that they would lease a fixed loan even if they knew that the variable interest rate would rise above their expectations. In the SAB Group, we understand the plight of the borrowers, but we believe that these situations are resolved within existing legal frameworks, so we cannot agree with the proposer that the bill solves social difficulties. The proposal refers to all borrowers who have leased in francs, whether they have already paid it off, converted it or still pay it off. It therefore covers those individuals who have no or no difficulties with repayments, including those for whom the Swiss franc loan was beneficial. In addition, we are asked whether it is the duty of the State to help those who, due to warnings about the traps of loans in Swiss francs, have not committed themselves and are still without housing today. Is the country going to help with that? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The problems with credits in Swiss francs are an interesting indicator of what is expected when the financial risks are distributed, who is the one who should be at risk of changing rates: debtor, creditor, central bank or perhaps even taxpayers. The Swiss Central Bank is not responsible because it has always made clear that the fixed rate of franca is temporary. It is said that it can change the value of the course at any time that it is deemed necessary. The risk of exchange rate changes falls on the debtors. Those who are in debt in francs and have income in euro take positive and negative risks of exchange rate changes; this should be the case. The proposal for a law on the limitation and allocation of foreign exchange risk between lenders and borrowers in Swiss francs is already the third proposal to try to regulate the relationship between recipients and lenders. A similar proposal was made in the legislative procedure already in 2018, but the hearing procedure was completed due to the termination of the mandate of the National Assembly, the consideration of a bill of this kind from 2019 was concluded by the Committee on Finance when the proposal did not receive sufficient support. Both draft laws dealt with the conversion of loans from francs to euro. The bill we are considering today is intended to address, among other things, the effects of unfair, counter-conventional, anti-constitutional and illegal use of the currency clause in the conclusion of consumer credits. The institute with which we're supposed to achieve this is a currency cap. It would be included in credit contracts nominated in Swiss francs or with a currency clause in Swiss francs concluded between the end of June 2004 and the end of 2010. This would be done by concluding an agreement on the regulation of mutual relations that can be formed as an annex to the current Swiss franc credit agreement or as a new contract in cases where the credit agreement no longer applies. The currency cap is intended to balance the currency risk between the parties. Such a solution would allow the contracts concluded to remain in force, with currency risks being redistributed between the lender and the borrower. According to the proposal of the law, banks are required to propose the conclusion of a contract for the arrangement of mutual relations to borrowers, while lenders decide on the acceptance of the offer on their own. It cannot be overlooked that this creates a new broad field for a potential reference to a failure to fulfil an explanatory duty. In particular, it should be noted that the provisions of the law should apply to all credit contracts concluded in Swiss francs during that period, whether or not these contracts are still in force or have ceased to apply. The new contracts must include currency caps limiting exchange risk as it limits the maximum and minimum value of the exchange rate and would be retroactive to the reverse from the date of conclusion of the credit agreement to those contracts that have already been fully completed or amended. This would intervene in already closed legal situations and, with retroactive effect, would intervene in civil law bond relations, which is prohibited under the Constitution. Both the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia assessed the issue of credits in Swiss francs and the proceedings are also pending before the Constitutional Court. Thus, it follows from the judgments of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia that loans in foreign currency or loans with a foreign currency clause at the time of the conclusion of the credit agreements were not prohibited or restricted, which is why they were not illegal. The contract law is based on the principle of free contractual will, and each individual decides whether or not to enter into a contractual relationship. However, the essential and decisive question raised is whether the borrowers were aware of all the important facts about the conclusion of a legal business. We have very diverse opinions on this, and we will also vote in accordance with the diversity of these opinions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u16	A nice greeting to all present in the Chamber, especially to you chairmen, but of course to the bill-makers! I concluded my comments on the proposal before the Committee on Finance by saying that I prefer people to banks. This time, I'll start with that attitude. Because I or we prefer people to banks, I also agree with the bill's proponent that the injustices that have occurred in the Swiss francs must be corrected somehow. It is unacceptable that banks have made crazy profits on the creditors' shoulders. The most controversial are mortgage loans that consumers have hired to settle housing problems. The Constitution provides in its 78th Article that the State shall create opportunities for citizens to obtain adequate housing. Is that true? In our view, this was the most contemptible constitutional provision. No government has done anything to put this right into practice. Since the state or society as such has cancelled, our citizens in their own way have tried to get a suitable place to live. So the tendency to conclude a credit agreement was not to buy luxury goods, but rather the place where the family would live. During that period, many of them solved the housing problem by concluding a credit agreement, which is the basis of family life. There is a lot of talk about fertility, and the fact is that the birth rate alone will not increase the number of citizens. If I conclude, it can happen that Slovenians will die out in time, so it is the duty of the state to support the solution of each individual working in childbirth, even in the way that you and your partner create a suitable home where your family will live. This is a business that the consumer usually does only once in his life, so the state has to take more care of this security. Almost every one of us has ever been to a bank and learned how inaccessible, cold, sometimes puffed up are bank employees. They expect you to be carefully dressed, and in the vast majority they do not care about the social difficulties of the comitantes. They look up at you when you approach them, and the moment they see that they can make money on the committee, they start listening. This was also the case in these cases, since bank officials, although they knew about the situation in the financial market, kept a lot of information on interest rates to themselves and sold the banking service exclusively to the bank for the greatest benefit. The greatest weakness is that for this work they have probably been rewarded in the form of some stimulus for success through various supplements. Consumers were deceived and interrupted. Wherever the consumer comes, either it is a banker, a public servant or any person taking up a position of office, it is essential that all information concerning the matter to the consumer is provided. The accuracy of information is very important in view of the fact that each individual can make the right decision, and this right is often violated. I stress, however, that the Slovenian National Party always advocates that it is still necessary to trust domestic currency and not foreign currency. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the law unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u17	Carmen Cosmos Ferrjan will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! The aim of the bill that we have before us today is to address the problem of consumer injury in a way that ensures a monetary risk limit and allows debt to be repaid under the conditions laid down at the time of the conclusion of the credit agreement. In Slovenia, in 2004-2008, banks traded and entered into contracts with a currency clause relating to Swiss francs. We can see from the Bank of Slovenia reports that in 2007 46.6 per cent of the newly concluded loans were in Swiss francs. All of Slovenia's lenders are Circa 32 000, including many families, including those where the mother signed a contract with a half-year-old child in her hands. In 2009, banks stopped lending in Swiss francs, followed by a long decline in the value of the euro compared to the Swiss franc; by 40 per cent by 2019. As a result, the unpaid principal and the monthly instalments and interest, which were not expected by the borrowers to sign the contract, increased significantly. There have been legal disputes between borrowers and banks throughout Europe for a long time. At least partial solutions were made in Hungary, Croatia, Serbia, Poland, Romania, Spain and France. It is also clear from the case law of the European Court of Justice that loans have been marketed irresponsibly and are disproportionate in the distribution of risks. If I make it simple. Rule number one is to always take credit in the currency in which you receive payment, but the ordinary borrower only knows that he has to pay the principal, interest and expense, and the currency risks are not informed. To teach him, it's the bank's duty. In the opinion of the proposed bank law, they also did not disclose all the information they had at their disposal. For example, Bloomberg's 2005 forecast, which said Swiss francs against the euro will gain 100 percent in the next 25 years. I would like to point out that the banks have highlighted only the advantages: low interest rates, low start-up meals and the possibility of hiring a higher amount of credit compared to the euro loan. However, when the difference became unsustainable, and when the debt became nonexistent for most people, the banks did not respond, they could. Banks are people, they talked. The draft law also has no direct negative financial implications for the state budget and other public funds. Once again, I stress that the applicants do not ask for and do not want the debt write-off, but they want a fair distribution of risks, which means that they will pay something themselves and some banks. In the SDS Group, we do not want the burden of payment to fall on the shoulders of taxpayers, which will happen if the European Court decides to do so, so we will support the proposal for a law submitted to the National Council by the State Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Robert Pavšič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u20	Isn't it strange that banks are never guilty? Neither were they in 2007. Most of all, the real estate market was affected at the time. Banks and other institutions offered products, at first sight favourable, to people who could not afford them. The global financial crisis followed. The government saved the banks, and the people were homeless. But that the banks are not without sin, we also know about it. Let us just look at the Court of Auditors’ report on bank rehabilitation — the part that is not public. And then, in February 2015, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Bank of Slovenia and the Association of Banks of Slovenia publish a joint statement on the possibilities and rights of borrowers in Swiss francs and possible systemic measures. They stressed that loan contracts are a bilateral legal transaction between the bank and the consumer and that the fact that the consumer in this regard is a weaker party subject to the provisions of the Consumer Credit Act, the Consumer Protection Act and the provisions of the Bond Code. They also say that consumers must be aware of the consequences of the contracts they conclude. The Bank must also be sure that the consumer is aware of the consequences of the contract. All of this also takes into account the legislation in force, they say in a joint declaration regulating the conclusion of consumer loans, so the signatories will monitor the appropriateness and respect of the provisions of the Slovenian acquis and, where necessary, act in accordance with their respective competences. Did everyone listed do anything? Did they follow their instructions, I promise? They're not. When the Ministry of Finance called on them once again in October 2019 to agree with the borrowers, there was no reaction. And so this question has been raised for some for more than a decade. Why is that? We can only guess. However, the fact is that banks have both time and capital and other options on their side. Now we're in 2022. We have not seen the solutions or at least a proposal for a bank solution. But we saw the activities of the Frank Association, trying to find a solution. Today or tomorrow at the vote, Members will decide whether to turn loans into Euros, which means that banks will not lose, only make less money. According to the Slovenian Consumers Association, it is these credits that the Austrian financial regulator explicitly referred to as an inappropriate form for long-term housing or consumer credit. Their aggressive marketing in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe has also been the subject of analyses by international organisations, resulting in the creation of new rules for consumer credits. The problem with these loans is unknown throughout most of Europe, but we know them in Poland, Croatia, Hungary, Romania and Slovenia. What does this country have to do with anything? We can only guess again, but we all know what we're talking about. However, the derivatives with two risk factors were certainly not offered by the banks for altruistic reasons. In the view of the Union of Consumers, by adopting this law Slovenia will show that it requires respect for the legislation and responsible behaviour of financial product providers on its market and that it considers consumer protection to be an important constitutionally protected good. In the LMŠ we share opinions on a concrete solution to this issue because on the one hand it is about respect for civil rights obligations and on the other hand it is about the existence of individuals. Of course, the vote will follow that fact. There is, however, an urgent need to do something or do something, since some are no longer involved. There's been a threat to the existence. Not the bank! Let me repeat: banks are only going to make a little less money. The existence of some individuals is at risk. This is why a precautionary principle must be considered in all matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We're done. No, we're not done. [[…]] Mr Soniboj Knezak will also present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u22	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues! The global financial and economic crisis has hit Slovenia and Europe mainly as a banking crisis. The banking sector, which is the main lender in Europe, has received even more extensive and thorough regulation over the past decade, all in order to keep banks stable so that their possible resolution would no longer fall on the backs of taxpayers to protect consumers from toxic products such as those that have triggered a global economic crisis decades ago in the United States. It is clear long ago that the Slovenian regulator of the banking system, Banka Slovenije, slept on the watch a good decade ago. As he did not notice the growing share of risky loans, non-performing claims in banks and their sub-capitalisation, he also completely ignored the harmful and risky banking products that regulators in better regulated countries quickly removed from the market – I am talking, of course, about loans in Swiss francs. These came into the supply of banks throughout Eastern Europe, soon after the Austrian regulator banned the offer of such loans to banks. Banking products belong to consumer products of a specific type. The consumer is significantly weaker and largely dependent on the advice of the seller, who is otherwise supposed to act in the consumer interest, but of course is a bank employee who gives him instructions and, of course, a salary. The banking business is also a business and every consumer is a man, so neither the focus of the bank nor the consumer's desire for as much credit as possible is in itself not a bad thing. But greed has its limits and economic activity is, at least in Slovenia, limited to public benefit. When, in other, much less regulated industries, the manufacturer or the trader places a harmful or dangerous product on the market, the procedure is clear. There is an immediate withdrawal of the product from the market and the consumer is guaranteed its exchange or the refund of the entire purchase. Of course, consumers are also informed of this. Although this is not strictly required by laws, sellers and producers act in such a way as to preserve their own reputation. Given the degree of regulation and the responsibilities that the established system requires from banks, it is extremely difficult to understand that banks in this case insist that they do not bear responsibility for their products, even though they have been proven and aggressively marketed as a tool to increase the applicant’s creditworthiness. Risks were cheap, neglected, and revitalized. They stressed the stability of the Swiss franc as the so-called reserve currency, but they were completely silent that this particular feature was a high risk of an increase in monthly meals if confidence in the euro fell. When this actually happened, they were quick to prove that only consumers were responsible and the solution must be left to the banks and their good will to settle with the parties that would choose them. Respectable, Slovenia is not the only country in which similar banking practices have taken place that have broken down throughout Eastern Europe, but it is interesting to note that in the western part of Europe such a credit offer has not appeared, but it is important to stress that there has been a similar story everywhere that has been solved in a similar way by the highest courts and parliaments with special laws. The proposed law is not something unique, therefore, but a solution that has reached out to several countries in order to restore trust and an honest relationship. The implementation of the law does not mean spending public funds or excessive interference with the freedom to conclude contracts or the free economic initiative. It only means a proportionate intervention to restore trust and fair credit relations, as well as to restore people's confidence in the banking sector, which, by its attitude towards certain consumer groups, is a strong principle based on its reputation. By adopting this proposal, the law establishes a regime whereby each consumer will repay his credit and interest, while the borrowers will be deprived of a reasonable profit, but in the legal currency of the euro area without the risk that the uneducated consumer may not bear. For all these reasons, we will support the draft law in the Group of Social Democrats, which once again establishes fairer relations on the market for banking products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 1. 2022. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. First, I give my word to the proposer. You have the word from there, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, in this debate, allow me to respond to some of the allegations which are being quietly dragged through all this credit event, which has been nominated in Swiss francs. The first argument is that the borrowers who leased these loans are either naive or speculative. But first, let's start by saying that it's possible that they're speculators. See, banks certainly did not offer loans in Swiss francs for humanitarian reasons and these loans were certainly not less profitable for banks than those in euro. Why? In spite of the lower interest rate at the constant growth of the Swiss franc and at the time of the deadline, which is, say, the same as the euro loan and the Swiss franc credit, the stable growth of the Swiss franc ultimately caused these loans, in view of interest on these banks, to make more profits than they would have made if they had given credit in euro. Pika. Fact, irrefutable, mathematically evident! Another time. At the time these loans were marketed and leased, there was the expansion of the so-called real estate balloon, the high market value of the real estates that banks promoted by their conduct. Why? Because if the property is expensive, there are few who can afford to buy it from their savings and have to rent it. More than credit, more absolute earnings are earned by the bank on interest. And the banks here participated socially in the inflatability of the real estate balloon, which eventually led to a major crisis. So it wasn't for the borrowers to speculate that they could get more credit and they would lose it, but it was about solving the existing problem – as much credit as possible because they were expensive property. And there was no other way. Now, if we're talking about speculators. Who, though, could be the speculators who would hire these loans and profit from the low interest rate on credit in Swiss francs? These could be entrepreneurs: if they took loans with a maturity of 25 years and knew that they would be able to pay them back at a time when the modest growth of the Swiss franc and the interest on it would not reach the euro interest. He could speculate on those who would take credit in Swiss francs and pay it up early and take advantage of the difference in interest rates. Those who could afford it should take about 100 grand, 200 grand of credit and pay it back in three to four years. Give me, please, who knows a case like this, who could have gone something like that. This could be done by entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs did not take such credits because it was not possible to do business and also taxly not to justify loans, long-term loans for real estate, and these loans were mainly traded for real estate. Well, we've already ruled out speculators. Speculators are mostly talked about in the public eye by means of media espionage caused by banks. We could talk about naive people long and wide. Today, it has been pointed out that the Swiss Central Bank has regularly pointed out the possibility that the value of the Swiss franc could change at any time to the euro's visa. Ladies and gentlemen, you still don't see what a normal, average citizen will know about this today! And to talk about teaching in this sense, it's completely depressed. If you look at the structure of 32 thousand borrowers, there is a very small percentage of those who have been taught this way. I also borrowed credit at the time, and I decided to borrow in euros because the elderly taught me to take credit in the currency where you get your salary. And yes, that's what I did. But I know a lot of people that I think are intellectuals and completely doable, but they haven't recognized the credit risk at this point because they've also been told at the bank when they hire loans that Frank is stable and that it's growing steadily, that they're going to pay more, but not significantly more. Where does the breaking point of honesty come from? At a time when Swiss franc suddenly jumps and when borrowers try to reprogram their debt also through conversion. The bank's response at the time was mainly: “You cannot get a loan in euros to pay the loan in francs and continue the euro payment because you are not creditworthy.” And that's what Frank keeps reminding us about. That's what he's warning you about. The other thing that's still very interesting here is that I didn't want to put it in the first place, but I have to. One journalist asked questions about the fate of loan holders in Swiss francs or the fate of their properties and their existence. 312 listed them, whose loans or claims were sold by banks to non-bank financial institutions, including one in Switzerland, which is very interesting in ownership relations with one of the banks that was then owned by the state. It is even more interesting that some of these loans from this Swiss non-bank financial institution have been rummaging back into Slovenia. But it only gets interesting when we find out that banks have sold off these claims with a 70 percent discount. You heard the right thing about a third of the value! And if some claims were sold with a 70 percent discount, then it is logical that commercial banks insist here on extra profits to cover those loans that were sold off with such a high discount. To whom, under what conditions, this is not the issue of today's debate. The regulator who then slept and slept today should know about this, and perhaps the law enforcement authorities. It'll be interesting to see who could have bought their loan through Switzerland from the bank he hired here and didn't pay it here. I made a claim. There are authorities that can investigate this claim, put me on a lie or prove it. So it is not about socialising the naivety or speculativeity of the borrowers in Swiss francs, but it is about preventing the socialisation of bank responsibility for unfair practice. It is true that in the past, the Slovenians have repeatedly recapitalised. And the fact that some people here do not want to hear without processing is that similar practice in the European Union has been sanctioned; that such credits should no longer be marketed, that some banks have also been penalised that this practice was more a rule than an exception in the former countries of the socialist bloc precisely because we have a lack of regulation, a lack of consumer protection and a lack of accountability or a response from regulators. Here was a hunting ground for toxic credits and these loans are no longer available, which proves that there was something wrong with these loans. The State Council is not trying to be a social correction here, but is trying to protect the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which will ultimately pay for the responsibility of non-inclusion in this issue, because in the end it will end up in the European Union's Court of Human Rights, as other cases have already ended: successful for the borrowers, failed for the banks. Then there will be socialisation and we will all pay it; the only one who will profit here will be the banking system. With this proposal, there will be no need for banks to repay overpayments so that everyone will be treated equally. No, no! If you take a closer look, it will be possible to get the folders off the dust shelves and it will start asking questions about these credits to solve, but it will happen that something else will be discovered with these credits........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This will also become very interesting. I think that there is also a large part of the answer to why this question is being covered under the carpet. I would like to invite you, please, if you support us in this, not least Slovenia is a social state; a country that cares about the welfare of its citizens in such a way as to protect them from non-business practices. And Slovenia must be a rule of law. And if we take the risk that the law is inconsistent with the Constitution, let the Constitutional Court say so, not the bank pierre. And let's take that risk, because we're not just taking it once. I would also invite you if you could, given that the amendments were less than 10 per cent of the articles, if you could complete the vote or end the vote of this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Since there is some interest in the debate, I will launch an application to the list of discussers. Please sign up. The first one has the word Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The amendment tabled by colleagues from the Levica Group refers to the return or return of a percentage of the value of the currency cap to the original proposal, from 10 per cent to 5 per cent, but we still remain on the core topic, namely the distribution of risk, in particular the currency risk between the donors and the borrowers. I mentioned earlier that the Swiss Central Bank is completely autonomous in its monetary policy management. That's something an average person should know. Therefore, the Swiss Central Bank may determine the value of the exchange rate as it considers appropriate. So what should the creditors, the debtors of the central bank, do when they know that fact and take this information into account? The answer is clear, we should be protected from this risk. Is it possible, therefore, to know in advance which direction a change of course would be expected if Frank were to untie from the Euro anchor and had been tied down for quite some time on this Euro anchor? This is possible because the information is contained in the difference between interest rates for loans in francs and those in euro. Since the loan is cheaper in francs, it is reasonable to expect that the fraction will be strengthened in relation to the euro. It is therefore possible to determine the direction, but it is not possible to determine the size of the change and its moment, but cannot determine the time dimension. The Swiss Central Bank will not announce a change in the rate in advance, which means that this change can be greater once it has been achieved than can be concluded only by comparing the differences between interest rates. If lenders and debtors do not hedge themselves against this risk, this means that they are silently agreeing that the other party will have costs in this debt-credit relationship. It may also be a type of mistake to believe that an event will not happen because it has been gone for a long time. In doing so, they did not take into account the fact that future outcomes are independent of previous outcomes, and it is not necessarily because of the fact that an event has not occurred for some time. The main dispute in this case is whether the borrowers have been properly informed of the risks arising from credits. The extent to which the consumer is informed depends on what can be expected from an average consumer who is normally informed, reasonable and prudent. The average consumer can be expected to know that the exchange rate is not constant, that he knows that the difference between offering credit in euros and Swiss francs, where interest is much lower, is precisely in taking on currency risk. And above all, ladies and gentlemen, I am reminding you of one contradiction. It cannot be argued that the borrowers were not sufficiently informed about the takeover of the foreign exchange risk but were at the same time sufficiently informed about the takeover of the interest risk. In particular, no one can predict long-term economic trends and market variables, as they depend on previously unknown factors. In simple terms, the currency risk is not known in advance, as it only means the possibility of a future change in the value of one currency compared to another currency. The basis of the contract concluded by the borrower and the lender is in confidence. Trust means that the parties can be confident that their co-contractors will keep their promises. The measure, where the legislator retroactively exempts one group of parties from the legal order, stimulates the idea that contracts are not actually bound. In particular, this means that, in so far as the risks taken are borne by one party, this party does not have to meet the promise, but can count on the assistance of the legislator or, at the final stage, to be saved by the State. The forced retroactive introduction of the currency cap does nothing but rewards the poor business decisions of the borrowers and encourages their carefree behaviour. The property of the consumer does not dispel an individual from the minimum care that he must demonstrate in his own matters. Each person is responsible for his own economic decisions. If the value of the Swiss franc had fallen, the contract would have been valid and borrowers would have maintained the benefit. This leads to a highly unbalanced distribution of contractual risks. If one party’s risk succeeds, the contract shall, if not, be terminated and that party shall not be insolvent — at least according to the proposal of this law, not the one which was realised under the original contract. The bill also places borrowers who have leased loans in Swiss francs in a more favourable position than borrowers who have leased loans in euro. This can ultimately lead to a spiral; a spiral in which the state must re-solve the risky business decisions of individuals. Retroactive risk-taking is, in particular, a deep conflict with responsibility for individual decisions. What I personally saw in the debate not only about this bill, but also in 2019, when I was Chairman of the Committee on Finance, is also an extremely sensitive concern for consumer protection. Learned Supreme Judges in this Slovenian Republic, specifically said two Supreme Judges and three Supreme Judges, also wrote one of their views. They say: “An exaggerated concern for the consumer is not in line with the notion of an individual as a reasonable, prudent, autonomous and free entity; an entity capable of taking responsible economic decisions for its own existence is important. Human freedom and dignity can be threatened by too little concern for them, and the exact same effect is also an exaggerated concern. The right of an individual cannot command what is good for him and direct him to what he only considers to be beneficial and good for a particular consumer.” With regard to credits in Swiss francs, I think of the brilliant categorization invented by Martin Luther King in the 1960s on political decision-making concepts. He says: “Shrewdness wonders whether it is safe. Slippery and insidiousness are asked if it is popular. But the conscience wonders whether it is right.” And the real question is whether it is possible by the law of an individual who is supposed to be economically responsible for himself to discharge these responsibilities. That's the real question. With the right questions, however, the problem is that people are not prepared to answer them with the truth. This is not because they would be dishonest or false, but because they are not able to detect other people. For 6, 7, 8 years, we may have been monitoring the inability of any agreement between bank representatives and representatives of the Frank Association. They all took the position of a firm negotiator, one who is so firm in his views that he is unable and capable of any agreement. And because they are not able to do so, they take on the responsibility of us legislators. It's totally unacceptable for me, and I'm not going to support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Yes, the real fight against this proposal of the law on the limitation and distribution of currency risk between lenders and borrowers takes place in these weeks. Of course, we have the opportunity, or last chance, to finally solve this problem, somehow, and practically today, it is in our hands, Members and Members. I'd like to introduce this a little bit more broadly from a different, broader point of view, which I think it's also right that we make a better decision. Look, banks, if we say only in Austria, this product stopped trading much sooner than we did. However, the two banks that stopped marketing this product in Austria and those Western countries continued this product to be marketed in Slovenia and similar countries of the East, as has already been said today. This is one of the first findings where I wonder what the role of the Association of Banks and the Bank of Slovenia is, if I may say so, not to protect its citizens and citizens in such cases, then we practically do not need such institutions. And even today, you can see this fight from a legal point of view that this law, which has been proposed for the benefit of these people, is for the good of the 32 thousand households that have suffered all these years, and probably also their existence is at risk. But probably not everywhere, because we also said that there were speculators among them and they were carrying this burden if this game was played by speculators, although I find it hard to believe that someone had rented a housing loan and needed an apartment in any way to be a speculator from this point of view. It's a bit of a hair puller, too. Look, no one will think, I wasn't a personal borrower, even though I was building a house at the time, and I'm not gonna say that because I don't know what kind of knowledge I didn't decide on this product, it was probably a set of circumstances and luckily I'm not here. But I know him because I came to the company as a financier and there was one such loan that was quite a strong loan, but it was in the last third of the repayment and somehow we transferred it and it was a lot lost. Look, like I said, it's not the only thing. We've read a lot these past few weeks. Let us remember the very rehabilitation of banks after this second crisis, how many subordinates and otherwise they have lost. But then it was good that all the taxpayers were saving our banks? And I'm going to say a very harsh word because of negligence! At that time, 24 billion owed themselves to the outside debt if anyone knew what that meant. External debt is something other than the debt of the public sector of the country, which means that at the time the banking institutions for businesses, then the economy was excessively held back, and 24 billion went into this hole in 2005-2008, which we then solved in 2012, 2013. And we saved them by taxpayers. We have to be aware of that! Today, however, the question is whether we will save these 32 thousand households, which are also because of their ignorance or whatever, especially due to negligence, in slogans, banks that could not protect their citizens and citizens. Not even Slovenia, if so said, as I initially said, that banks in Austria, Germany, Switzerland and those Western countries in fact did not stop such a product and then the borrowers were quite less involved in the loss. Look, there were no special controls from the bank's point of view, and I will also say, in this mandate, we witnessed how banks then limited certain loans and virtually did not warn anything before, so that young people could not get to their homes. I also remember one product in my life. In 2012, the interest rate was a product and then a bank wanted to convince me about the company, because we had 2 million loans at a 4,5 % interest rate to insure at that rate and pay if the interest rate went up so that our company could then repay at that rate. Two years later, the interest rate, of course, was at a variable interest rate, already 2 percent. Today's nothing. That is to say what profits this bank would have made if such a product were then accepted. I mean, of course, the bank is only following profits, but everything is under-insured by its citizens and also by the economy in these products. I think it is time, of course, from a legal point of view, we can say that it is on the side of the banks, but it is our national assembly, our vote today on this and we have the opportunity to cut this matter once and to go to the good citizens and citizens, in which case the borrowers who have lost a lot in this product of credits in Swiss francs. Finally, it is a sobering business for banks to be more responsible in the future not only for their capital in banks, but also for the borrowers and the people whose capital is managed and of course all bank revenues are based. At the time, in 2012, 16 billion people's deposits, when we were saving the banks, were now deposits at the bank of 24 billion. Finally, this Danish economist, because the government is so bragging about how successful we are, is covered by the net commitment in this indicator. What does that mean? That Slovenia is a phenomenon in the growth of deposits and all indebtedness, the public debt of Slovenia has been reduced by the growth of these deposits. And such an indicator is then used in this case for the fact that the economist then also did not use it in the substantive part of the explanation, because he has already found that Slovenia is here something strange and we do not know this matter clearly to people. And it is also right for us to understand this, so personally in this case I will support this law in particular in view of the fact that the 32 000 households that have drawn short here are being saved and that, finally, the bank and this banking, financial system are being sobered up and that even here, at least partly, it is more difficult than that to secure their capital, which we, too, have had to resolve in the past, to protect their citizens and citizens more, with which they also manage their capital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u30	Thank you very much. We have tabled this amendment, which reduces the cap from 10 per cent to 5 per cent, as it was in the original proposal. Just for an explanation before I open the debate a little wider. We supported the amendment to raise the currency cap to 10 percent. We supported it because of the fact that the law came to the committee through, but we would like to discuss it again today or to give our reasons why the 5 percent cap would be better, and we hope that this will be accepted. In fact, the 5 percent cap was set up to align Swiss francs with euro loans. So the currency risk is limited in the way to protect the borrower who took the loan in Swiss francs, as if he took it in euro. If we raise it to 10 per cent, it means, although obviously more or less in this room we recognize that the banks were the ones who unfairly overcame the risk to borrowers that they deserved on these same borrowers; and once more than they had earned on people who took loans in euro. That's why 5 percent, not 10. That's our amendment. Now, let me give you a little bit of reason why we should propose 5 percent. Look, it's not true that currency risk is some kind of risk that's just in the air and no one can know whether or not it's going to occur. Both banks and regulators knew about the currency risk, namely Banka Slovenije. The banks were aware of the currency risk, not least because if you go to see contracts, they were insured against currency risk themselves. The credit agreement stated that if the value of the franc falls against the euro, the interest rate will rise accordingly. So the banks were aware. On the other hand, if the value of a franc rises against the euro, there is no guarantor in these credit contracts for the borrower. So the banks knew, but they only selfishly insured themselves, or they had their hands on how they would serve on borrowers if the winds turned to harm. And secondly, that this currency risk existed and was not minor, the regulator also knew. Finally, I believe that out of 400 employees in Banka Slovenije, where I know they also have an international department, someone who reads what neighbouring central banks write. The Austrian Central Bank said the following at a time when these Swiss loans were flourishing in our country. In 2004, the risk of credits in Swiss francs was still marked as negligible, in 2005 as significant, in 2007 for significant and in 2008 for high. So our regulator should know that this risk exists if you just read what the Austrian Central Bank says about it and remind consumers of it. There were no warnings; there were no warnings until 2008. Therefore, we cannot act as if it was solely the responsibility of an individual, a borrower, because we are actually doing them wrong. The banks did not tell them that there was a foreign exchange risk, and the regulator did not tell them that there was a foreign exchange risk. So they were on their own. And more importantly, the banks were lyingly selling these loans to them as safe as possible. Let me read two ads back then. One bank wrote: “We want to help you. We have prepared favourable housing loans, we offer you professional advice, together we will find the most suitable way. We are the first bank to allow you a multi-currency loan with a minimum currency risk.” So the bank said the currency risk was minimal. And another bank says – this was written under an ad for credit in Swiss francs – “Recreation or house are the dreams of every Slovenian. The realization of these dreams means a great step towards a secure future." So the minimum risk, security – these were the words that were used to surround the loans in Swiss francs. Next. When we talk about responsibility, I think we need to talk about the responsibility of institutions. Swiss francs weren't the only mistake, if you say so, the bank at the time. Jože Lenart, who spoke before me, said that at the time the banks had very irresponsiblely distributed as much as EUR 24 billion of loans, which were then paid by taxpayers over the coming years. And when the banks got in trouble, it was what? They came before us, the legislators or you — I was not here at the time — and they said we were too big to fail. Untie us with these responsibilities. And of course all reasonable politicians of that time said, yes, financial institutions, banks in Slovenia are too large to fail, they must be saved. And they saved them with EUR 5 billion of taxpayer money. Now that we have a slight problem, EUR 300 million of credit in Swiss francs, which causes the potentially 5 per cent of the Slovenian population to suffer, there are 32,000 households or up to 100,000 people, and we act as if this is their responsibility. Why? Because they're too small! Because they're too small because we don't care about their fates, that's why. Because it doesn't matter if a household can't pay off the loan and if they're tearing his apartment down — whatever. It doesn't matter to the system. But we can't act like this. I mean, we are representatives of the people here, and yet we are here to protect his social security, his rights and so on. So we obviously have double criteria; banks have 5 billion, and small ones have a slap — or what? And if I go to the legal aspect of the problem. See, neighbouring Croatia does not have a substantially different constitution than Slovenia, as far as private property and its protection are concerned. There they adopted a law similar to that of the borrower. However, the Constitutional Judges have decided that the State has an obligation to intervene in such a way as to ensure the social security of the borrowers and to reduce the social disparities resulting from the increase in the value of the Swiss franc. Thus, there the Constitutional Court has clearly faltered such an arrangement. We also have Article 67 of the Constitution, which clearly states that property must also have a social function. And if we are looking at Article 155 of the Constitution, to which the opponents refer, which prohibits the retroactive application of legal acts, this same article also states that the individual provisions of the law may be retroactive if the public interest so requires. And the question that we must face today is whether it is in the public interest. I think that the social security insurance of almost 100,000 people in this country is in the public interest. Last but not least, if we look around the world, as has already been said, across other European countries, some of the bankers, because of loans like these, were in Swiss francs when the banks insured themselves and the borrowers did not, responded. In France, such a case is the case of BNP Paribas, where their directors have been convicted and punished for unfair business practices. Did a banker answer to us? Be it for the irresponsible lending of 24 billion loans between 2004 and 2008, paid by the borrowers, or for fraud in Swiss francs! I don't know any cases, and I don't think they do. Therefore, when we talk about responsibility, I think that the responsibility of institutions must be discussed first. And one last time before I finish. Some representatives of the parliamentary groups simply sent the borrowers to the court in their introductory address in Switzerland, and each contract has to be dealt with separately. But here I will remember again, the trials are long, they can be over six years, and they are unreasonablely expensive, up to more than 10,000 euros. And now you people who, let's say, between 2007 and 2015, would have paid off 50,000 euros of credit, and yet their capital has grown to 100, 110 000 euros, say, have already been taxed for some 50, 60 thousand euros – they were sent to the courts to be there for the next 6 years or how much justice they have to get there at 5 or 10 thousand euros to eventually get some satisfaction out of it. And 32,000 people are like that. 32 thousand households are the ones who took that credit! After all, I think it will also be good for Slovenian courts if we arrange this with a simple legal act, but not that we send 32 000 households to the courts, to be fair to each other. As we say, we will support this law, and we will also support the reduction of the currency cap from 10 per cent to 5 because it is not fair that banks that have cheated on borrowers with the security of these loans still deserve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is Robert Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u32	Thank you. I think that one of the few things that we all agree on today is that this is an extremely complex subject. But we have been monitoring this country's history in the last 30 years, even in the financial market. Back in the '90s, by the end of the '90s, we were monitoring, say, the opposition of the profession to the buy-ins and the insurance of credits with what you bought. Now we have a similar situation, because today it's not some Taiwanese buyout, but it's an average citizen, a citizen who's insured the loan with what he bought. However, the important difference here is that you do not guarantee assets or claims with your own property for legal persons, but only with the property of this legal person. That's a big difference. And if we've been paying off those missing purchases and missing loans and paying them all today, we have to ask ourselves what's wrong with us as people, as with the country, if we don't help people in this mess. The distribution of risks should be crucial today. When we look at the average purchase of property for our own use, not again on behalf of the legal person, but for our own use, for our own survival, we see that the borrower actually takes all of the risks, even if there is no currency risk. And to refer to the fact that notary does its job in such transactions, of course, within its remit, because it is a matter of mixing a large number of financial products, but it is impossible to expect that responsibility to be assumed by either the notariat or even the borrower. Banks are traditional institutions with us. That means we have to trust them, because if we don't trust them, the whole system goes down. That's why we have our deposits secured on one side. That's what the state guarantees. On the other hand, the borrower is obviously not insured in anything, except in the Consumer Protection Act, the Bond Code, but again, it is a lengthy and excruciating demonstration in court of what was possible and what segment could have gone wrong. In fact, we should expect as citizens to be equally protected as a borrower or as a depositor to a bank because they are absolutely protected to some limited value. Whoever gives the money to the bank is absolutely protected because the State guarantees deposits to banks licensed by the Bank of Slovenia. Today, however, we are talking about people who have taken on currency risk, interest risk, risk of loss of employment and market risk. Why market risk? If someone, at all these risks, fails to pay off annuity on a regular basis — will something happen? There's gonna be a mortgage. In doing so, we forget that the bank is also protected at the mortgage to the extent that if the mortgage does not pay the principal, you, as a borrower, are still obliged to pay the difference. This is now, quickly, a very generalised state. All the risks are taken by the one who also took the loan. When I've been following the stories of all these people since I've been in the National Assembly, they've been accompanied by the fact that this loan, which is actually toxic, has been offered by the system: take it or leave it. It is impossible for some Members to conclude that the borrower will be informed of all these risks, as even licensed brokers cannot monitor all of this. And the definitions of derivatives and derivatives of derivatives, and then it goes to infinity, and even those that they offer don't really know. Evidence of this was at the end of the decade when these derivatives, which were based on completely normal and traditional mortgage loans, became speculative goods. The same is happening or has been happening, even as Mr Kovšce said, with these loans. Somebody tell me what the logic is to sell a loan that turned out to be extremely good for the guy who gave it, with a 70% discount rate. It's hard to understand in some banking logic why you would sell something that brings you money, and it's very good money if something's not in the background wrong. And then a man contacts me and says, "My mortgage, my claim is bought by a company that's not even in the financial field and can't calculate how much I owe him." That's what should turn all the lights on. There's something very wrong with the background of these loans. Of course, I also understand the banks, they must protect their interests to the end, all the remedies. But the National Assembly is the one who adopts legislation. And it won't be hard for me to confirm this marriage today, and it won't be hard for me to even confirm the amendment of the Left, which I think is reintroducing the 5% cap. Because we accepted on the committee that it was 10%, that is, we increased the original cap by 100 percent. We're not talking about 5 percent, but we're talking about 5 percentage points, and between 5 and 10 is two times. It is therefore necessary to be very careful in these mathematical and financial matters. The system needs to be trusted. Yes, but the State must also be trusted to protect everyone who has been wronged. And that this matter has not been resolved in the last three, four years, but in the last ten years, it is also clear why. Because it's time because it's money because other options are on the side of the stronger. They have unlimited resources. People who lose their roof over their heads and all their futures, because – let's go back to the mortgage – if we grow that big, even if we sell everything we have, we'll still owe it to the bank. But people don't just lose money, they lose the future. And it is the State that should ensure a secure future for everyone, regardless of the personal financial situation or the circumstances. That is why we are also, by the Constitution, a social state to help those who have something that has happened to them who cannot work. Once again, opinions in the LMSH are shared. But those who will vote in favour, we are very confident of our right. I do not believe or believe that in the end, the Constitutional Court will have to say. And that's the way it is. But at least the first step is to do and show people that we are actually on their side. Because we've been on the bank a lot. Has something changed? Except that we still have some stable financial system for the time being. Something hasn't changed much, at least for the average groom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Nice greeting to the proposer, the secretary of state and everyone present! I must admit that I have listened attentively to the debate so far and somehow followed with interest, but my personal position, I must admit, is somewhat different. Also, my debate, which will somehow not diminish respect for the proposer, especially in this context, because this content today, I am firmly in the position that it should not be stained mainly by the political view, the political debate, but rather by the profession. I will also try to justify in my debate some way and I am also aware that we are in this so-called currency cap. The first thing is very clear, and so far there have been no words on the subject that the loan contract or the credit agreement with any currency has been simply a bond relationship. It is completely understandable and I think it's unrealistic and unreasonable to talk about the person who gives or lends money or any other movable property, that somehow he can't expect it back in one way or another. I will not go into certain debates that respected colleagues and colleagues had before me, but I would still like to touch myself at one point. The fact is that he is now at his disposal, and also by the proposer, it was said that 35,000 borrowers, who in one way or another have been tricked into being in difficult situations today and so on. Let's get some fresh wine. Of these 32 or 35 thousand, as far as available, the availability of information is indeed something, say to this ten, one hundred or one thousand, who are in an unenviable situation that they decided then in 2004 to 2008 or by 2010 to take a loan to solve or try to solve their housing problem. I couldn't agree more. But that's not the number. And now to say that today's topic or issue of saving Swiss people with a currency clause is a public interest, I think it's a complete deception. For such transactions, this type of conclusion of credit was primarily the voluntary will of all contractual or both parties; or if we say third parties, if they were weddings. And to talk about public interest, I would only ask in these debates that we do not mix – what was also said in the debate – the recapitalisation of a state-owned bank in 2013. Today is a completely different content and I will once again, and probably again, touch myself in my debate: this is a bond relationship. It intervenes in civil, economic law, which is absolutely based on a relationship and is regulated by law in the Bond Code. What was somehow now in the debate will be touched once again, even though I have no intention of commenting on my debaters. It was said that this bill had no implications for public finances. I'm in a firm position not to attach myself to this. As a result, at the time of the adoption of such a law, and today none of the debaters have touched, the European Central Bank has also warned – I will continue to do so a little more. What can somehow follow the validation of such a law in one part when it wants to resolve an area of risky business and overcome this risk from 14 years ago to another? Certainly so-called financial institutions, foreign investors are aware of the legal order in the Republic of Slovenia. I will not, however, touch on whether this exploitation is, as has been reported in the debate, and so on. What I wanted to say in this context is that we can expect that the impact can also happen as regards the ratings. Hypothetically. What I cannot agree with the proposal of this law is, however, what has also been said and understood from the previous presentations of views and debates, that this law wishes to spread risks fairly. But, Your Honor, on what grounds? On the basis of the political will of this national assembly, politics, because this directly affects the second branch of the Authority, which is solely responsible for resolving the bond situation. And I'm going to say a little more about this next time. I mean, it's unreasonable to say that for such a long period of time back he wants to make a political decision when he wants to help a certain group or individuals who are a little bit, we can also say whether they are aware or wronged or something, but we cannot define a free contractual relationship now so that you will take the risk of the so-called currency clause for a decade. And a few more words about this. What I would like to point out is why the loans were even in Swiss francs, why citizens, legal persons or whatever, independent entrepreneurs decided in 2004 to 2008, 2010 to accept offers from banks that marketed or advertised their products. It's perfectly legitimate. Banks are also advertising today, even today not only financial institutions, but other market operators are advertising. This is a way of free market supply and demand for the sale of its products. The answer to why loans in Swiss francs are accepted is quite clear if we are talking about that period. These loans were significantly more favourable and had a lower interest rate than the loans were in place to the site, because we know what year the conversion of the Slovenian currency was set to the euro as well as to the euro below. Here at this point I will present a slightly different case that can be simulated and calculated, but something has already been said in the beginning. Loan in 2007, if someone took 100,000 euros; and in the case of someone who took 100,000 euros in euros, and someone else who took the same amount with the currency clause. And on the assumption of 2007 take a 100 000-euro loan to buy an apartment - whatever the form of insurance - for a period of 20 years and assuming that in 2015 the Swiss Central Bank would not change the Swiss currency ratio: the euro would happen – what? After 20 years, the loan in Swiss francs would be repaid by the borrower for EUR 20 000 lower than it would have been in euro. This simulation can be done by anyone. I repeat, under the assumption that 2015 the Swiss Central Bank would not change the Swiss exchange rate : the euro. This is a simulation and also theoretically proven. Not to say why such a sum. The reference rate applied at the time was also 1.5 percentage points lower in Swiss francs than in euro; but it may be a little later. What I want to say in my debate, which will be less political, and perhaps a little more professional, is what I want to say. Above all, it is my view that it is not right that this matter is literally being dragged into the National Assembly for several years now, since 2016. What can we get out of this? That the judicial system for which in the National Assembly, by opposition groups or debaters, is first of all a thank you for the criticism, which is due to the fact that this raw content has now passed over to us, the legislative body, because the justice system simply does not work or did not want to work effectively on such matters. Because I think we should just because of cases that are related to so-called existential cases. As far as what has not yet been touched by any of the proponents or discussers is concerned, the position of the Government. The Government's position is quite clear that it opposes this bill. I hope that the Minister of Finance is very clear or firmly aware of what, in the long run, would result in the approval of such a bill. I believe that the position of the financial profession, if I may say so, is that the government has the same relationship before its eyes as it was in 2016 and 2019 when the National Assembly rejected it for the same reasons. Not because I do not want to help individuals, not because I want to protect another party, in this case the lenders. Creditors in Swiss francs were – of course, expected – banks, but also other financial institutions or perhaps those who were not financial but were registered for lending money. So, there's a lot of cheetahs. As far as the European Central Bank is concerned, as I have already mentioned, I believe that those who have looked at this material a little bit have seen that it is very clearly written down, which I must point out in my debate as well. Their position is that "the imposition of measures with a retroactive effect poses a threat to legal certainty", which is unusual for the European financial institution to warn, for this is another area, let's say, of more important matters. It also says that "it does not comply with the principle of eligibility of expectations because it can interfere with acquired rights". This is precisely how important it is in so-called financial transactions. What the European Central Bank also very clearly points out and travels – and nothing has been said in the debate so far – is that in the current Slovenian legislation in this case the consumer or borrower is protected primarily by the Consumer Credit Act. And it is also directly linked to the Consumer Credit Act, which entered into force in 2017, to this so-called currency cap. What's the point of this so-called currency cap? That everyone has the right to demand conversion to the euro if the exchange rate changes by more than 10 per cent. This is a decisive provision of the Consumer Credit Act, which has been in force since 2017. This means that this proposal or this amendment, which has been tabled, is practically intended to give effect to a right that an individual can already exercise, but the fact is that he must be the one who, in some way, has to be the one who, if I am a little more specific, has to comply with this so-called provision of the Consumer Protection Act. But what I have to admit is that I miss my colleagues in this National Assembly – no words regarding the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. But you know, days ago, when we had another marriage, and this is the Penal Code, which we had the pompous experience of individuals who somehow slipped into some content or subject of a marriage novel. In this case, when the Law-Legal Service is truly in-depth and very professionally alerting us and Members to the possible adoption of this law, there are no words. I miss here, and I will also make a few words later on about what is practical with this so-called concern for respect for laws, respect for justice, the justice system in the Republic of Slovenia. The legal and legal service is very in-depth and well-founded to warn us Members that such a law interferes with some retroactivity in civil bond relations. And the Constitution already provides for the prohibition of such retroactive legal arrangements. In order not to speak further on what it means to intervene in contractual freedom, to prevent, by means of a single provision of this law, any legal protection from being afforded to another party by means of a proposal of this law, to intervene in some way also in an area which is constitutionally secured and protected to protect the claims of the creditor's property rights and which could also be listed. And what he somehow concludes in some of his work that this proposal represents an excessive intervention not only, if I may say so, in part property rights, but also an excessive intervention in a free economic initiative, which has been used many times in this national assembly, I almost hope to say that it is even abused in individual work. The fact is that this problem was actually created solely because in 2015, as mentioned above, the Swiss Central Bank was unprepared and was not expected on European or global financial markets in order for such a stable currency, Swiss franc, to be able to have a different exchange rate. As a result, in the Republic of Slovenia, the Bank of Slovenia, as well as the business banks as well as individual ministries, began to report or advertise that these so-called changed circumstances were noted by the parties at the time of the conclusion of the credit agreements with the so-called currency clause. I am firmly in the position that so many tens of thousands of credits in Swiss francs that have been made through the procedures of notaries are called mortgage loans with an executive title, that notaries have warned both sides of what a currency clause means, which is the risk of a so-called currency clause, because it interferes with the capital. For the interest rate is significantly lower, but the currency clause interferes with the principal itself; that is what happens, and a great dissension has occurred, concerning the return itself. As far as this is concerned, I must admit that I am surprised that there are no more words or comments, as regards respect for the law and application of the legislation in force. For the fact is, as I mentioned in the introduction, this is based on the Bond Code and the only one responsible for dealing with such issues is the courts in the Republic of Slovenia or the European Court of Justice and not on politics, and not on this State Assembly, which consists of political parties. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The text shall be delivered by the representative of the proposer, Alojz Kovšća. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The claim that the relationship between the lenders of loans nominated in Swiss francs and the commercial banks that offered these loans is purely a relationship based on the Bond Code is completely misleading. We have financial institutions that are not banks, which are financial institutions, we have companies that are engaged in financial transactions, we also have entrepreneurs who are legal persons, we have citizens who are individuals of private law. And we can all borrow money from each other and return it back in accordance with the Bond Code and the contracts we make with each other. However, the banking system is not only based on the Bond Relations Act but is regulated by specific sectoral legislation, the Banking Act, and completely different criteria and other criteria apply to the banking system. On the one hand, the banking system with special legislation is secured and has a priority in paying the obligations of the directors to banks where we are companies and citizens in the second, third, fourth payment order, the banks are in the first; first, the country as Furs, then the banks and then everyone else. So this special system, the legal system, on the one hand, protects the banks and on the other hand protects the bank's committees from interference. And yes, it is a wish, a great desire of commercial banks, that it would appear to the public that it is a classic bond relationship and that it would be regulated individually. Each individual should prove to what extent someone has explained the risk to him and to what extent he has not explained the risk to him. And despite the fact that this story of clarification has already been fully demonstrated in other countries of the European Union, we need to re-invent warm water in Slovenia and each must prove it individually. Well, I'll be straight. The aim of banks is to eliminate some of the committees in one way and others in another. The current Slovenian case law also supports this. And I'm gonna be a little rude to say this: where the Swiss franc credit banks were suing their families, they were successful. Look at the jurisprudence, it's true. However, where ordinary citizens have been sued with the help of law firms, they have failed. That's a fact. And delaying, of course, fragmentation is profitable for banks, because it is a huge asset. And yes, indeed, it is a political decision! It's arbitration. It is certainly not the exclusion of the competent judicial system, but, honourable Members, why we then recapitalised with the public money of the bank and did not simply let them go bankrupt when it was a political interest. That didn't bother anyone at the time, except the citizens. But nobody asked them anything. It's a political decision. Of course it's a political decision. But there is no question of the retroactivity of the law. Why? Because the Slovenian judicial system knows the institution of nullity of the treaty, which says – those who accompany us remotely, especially citizens, will understand, I will try to be very simple – if a treaty is concluded on the basis of incorrect assumptions or ignorance, deception or facts which define this treaty as harmful, then it is null and void. And this is not about retroactivity, but it is about declaring contracts null and void and re-establishing contracts on the basis of conditions that are not harmful or unacceptable to both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I take it it's an interest. I'm asking you to sign up. Four panellists have been reported. The first one gets the word Dusan Shisko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u38	Vice President, thank you for your word. Your Honor! Finally, we began to make changes in this adulterous country. We certainly support this law in the Slovenian National Party. We need to get rid of the citizens. If you remember, we all saved the banks, and when these banks were saved, that I wouldn't say a little mean, at the time, they paid their first regress, to the best extent possible at the time; everyone else was waiting and the citizens were saving the banks. If we remember for a moment who was selling these banks back then? We're not in here, there's other people selling! In neighbouring Croatia this was resolved, I have been following for some time now, it seems to me that two years ago, and they have also supported this law. I do not know why this Slovenia does not have to or does not want to solve such things; banks are foreign and we Slovenians support foreigners. If I refer to another matter a little bit, my respectable colleague and colleague, I think it would be time to open up, too, who wiped out the small shareholders, the shareholders of New KBM, when we lost those small shares of this bank overnight. But certain boasts about how they saved Slovenia at the time. And again, we Slovenians were servants when we found out that we were out of stock overnight. However, as far as these amendments are concerned, we will examine them and decide whether or not to break them by tomorrow's vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u39	Thank you, too. Boris Doblekar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Today we are talking about an amendment to the approved Law on the Limitation and Allocation of Currency Risk between Borrowers and Borrowers on the Finance Committee. Of course, we have before us the amendment for the currency cap, which is proposed at 5 percent, was adopted on the committee at 10. I can say that, of course, I have also listened carefully to the various debates and also to the views of the parliamentary groups, that it is such that it is worth supporting, as far as the law itself is concerned, given that this issue is already so old that it is taking so many years and that these borrowers, these families, 32 thousand families about to suffer from these risky loans – many of them have already passed away, some have given up in this way and many of them have also broken up, precisely because of these difficult financial pressures. I must say that, of course, I will always stand on the side of justice or on the side of those who suffer. Now the explanation or some fear that it will lead to a spiral, or that all those who start are going to, say, speculators or whatever who are going to be dealing with bitcoins or on a flight, if they pay, they will lose money, and they will not win to turn to the National Assembly. I think that's a bit of a hair draw. Of course, I also carefully read the position of the State Council's own proponent and also of the Legal and Legislative Service, including the Government's position. However, I believe that after as many years as this has been going on together, these struggles continue – not just in Slovenia, but elsewhere. We know that at that time these foreign banks, particularly foreign banks, somehow attacked, if we call it, the Eastern Block or the countries of the former system, from socialism in this transition period. They probably already knew why they were doing this. That's how some of these problems have been solved. They're still getting rid of them. We hear enough about these borrowers going to court. We know how long the procedures are going on. We also know how expensive the matter is, who can afford it, who can't afford it, and once again: for the correction of such injustices, it seems to me such an exceptional, truly remarkable case — I have always wanted these injustices to be rectified. This government has already corrected many injustices, either workers, disabled people, farmers, I don't know, children with special needs and so on. I think it's time for this injustice to be rectified, too, that happened to people, nothing bad to the hunches that it was just when they took these loans to save the roof above their heads, not because they were going to earn something or to try to speculate and later this hit them. And if I don't know, you see how many cases have been published if in 2007 – MEP Verbič has already talked about it, and others have taken credit for 100,000 euros. They first got it in francs more, so they were more creditable. And normally, if you were solving a housing problem, if you were buying an apartment, building a house or whatever, it's normal for you to watch that you take more to get more, isn't it? And I don't know, in 2007, 100,000 euros, but 2015 is over 100,000 euros to pay. I mean, that's painful, isn't it, that's bad. Those who have or are in such a situation, I think it is time for us to feel compassion for them and help them in some way. Of course, I will by no means forget here that banks that lend also make sure that the financial system of the lion is at all. True, they help people with loans and so on, but I think it is right that they take part in this risk in this difficult situation. I don't think that's why any of the banks are going to fail. And also what was mentioned several times that we made a decision in the National Assembly at that time, but probably not just once, or that I was not there, or that they helped that the country was from the budget, that is, taxpayers, including borrowers, they all took over, together the whole country, we all took the risk and helped banks fill their holes, but then we could say, yes, because you caused them with, I don't know, unwise business, with various risks and so on, save yourselves. But then we all jumped in to help the banks, and I don't think we should forget about this bank. I can also mention that when the issue of write-off of certain claims, loans of millions of value, is not a problem for some. Someone had to pay for it, didn't they? Someone just had to pay for it — and millions of people signed off like that, with ease! Maybe I'll get into another matter in the previous system when inflation swallowed credits that didn't have to be repaid at all. Houses, apartments, farm buildings were built. And then inflation came and there was no need to pay back at the end of the day. Of course, people said, that's great, that's fine, so it's also often said, yes, because it was nice in the previous system. Of course, it was because in the end many things were misled by unwise decisions, unwise management of many. In this case, I think it is right that borrowers and lenders, i.e. banks, take this risk, and somehow divide these burdens among themselves, so that people start to live normally. As has already been said, I've had some visits to those affected by this lending. People came to visit me in the office and told me stories from their own experience. Even stories when the successors, when the borrower or the borrower has passed away because of these heavy burdens, which simply cannot be sustained when you see that you have more and more principals to pay back, and you pay back each year, are also difficult for those who are paying for them now. And to keep our eyes closed before that, I think it's enough that it's time for us to find a solution together and finally beat what's been going on for many years and there's been a lot of attempts to end it. I think now is the time for these injustices to be rectified. I will therefore certainly support the proposal for a law on the limitation and distribution of monetary risk. As far as the amendment is concerned, we will decide tomorrow before the vote. Thus, I can only express great satisfaction that we have finally found some consensus to approach this together and resolve the matter. Of course, I also understand all those who are more at home in this area, who are more professional, who have deepened into something more than just people suffering to tell you what the banks think. I also respect it, I respect it all, I understand it, and I also believe there's something about not saying it for nothing. But I still think it's time we all kind of get started, and this old, long story is over. I must say that I am pleased that the Council of State has proposed this law and that it is likely that it will receive support in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u41	Thank you, too. Joze Lenart has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u42	Dear colleagues, we're here for the people, not the capital, at least that's how I'm aware. And those debaters who are still sending these people today after fifteen years of age, bereaved, disappointed in the courts for themselves to seek this right, are very sad and ashamed of you. Another time. Those who claim that the borrowers would gain, if the course went in the other direction, you have read these contracts very poorly and today this has been made clear. And you're deceiving the public. Unfortunately, then you're bad Members! I will say so; a bereaved and disappointed citizen cannot be a good capital for us. And that's when we said we were in the name of the people. For me, the man, the citizen, the citizen, is the capital on which we must build. It doesn't mean anything to me if we have rich banks and, on the other hand, poor and disappointed citizens, because they are going to leave us and it's the saddest and most dangerous thing we do in this country. Finally, today we have the opportunity to support this law, and finally once again we give the mirror to the banks and to the capital that works recklessly with people.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u44	Thank you very much. It saddens me to hear this eternal mantra about a free economic initiative, even when this initiative goes on over the man he's fooling, like here or, say, we hear it in a freaking, where dirty capital is protected from the interests of the people who live there. We hear that in Swiss francs and many times. To send people who, because of this manipulation of the banks, have, say, families of 600 euros a month to survive when they pay back what happened to them with this manipulation of the banks, to the courts, to the long trials – because they don't even have the money to do it! I mean, how do you even have to say something like that? Of course, it is basically a political decision, for there has been a mass injustice that needs to be corrected at some point. It was well explained that it was not retroactivity; it was a nullity of contracts that were made so that they were misleading to borrowers. In short, today it is necessary to make a simple political decision, or tomorrow, whether we will blindly side with banks that in this case have been more than fatherly manipulated or on the side of defrauded people. 32 thousand families, that's about 100,000 people suffering this is 5 percent of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens suffering from this manipulation that happened. Why manipulation? Because the ads of the bank clearly indicate that. How did they advertise? The investment in a safe future was therefore an advertisement for security. The minimum risks, although they knew that these risks, of course, were not even nearly minimal, some have already shown this very clearly. The fact that banks were aware of the risks stems from the contracts they concluded. They protected themselves in these contracts, but not the borrower. So they knew. The main regulator, Banka Slovenije, knew and kept silent, making it more than clear that people were flushed. Of course, people wanted to solve their housing problem. Who doesn't want to save him? Of course, they were happy to take the credit that seemed more favourable to them. Is that why they're speculators? No, they're not speculators! Then it was said here what a message the state would give. Do you know any messages? Since this is about bond relations, we have heard that banks are also bound by the Banks Act, not just by bond relations. What kind of message will the country give? Yes, banks will also be aware of their responsibilities in the future and will enter into bond relations responsibly; both to their creditors and to themselves. That's the message we're gonna give! Or we will give a message such as that given by Spain, France, Italy, Poland, Hungary, Croatia and so on. Countries that have tackled this problem, who have recognized and solved it, or have solved it. For a change from some here, who continue, as we say, to repeat this sad mantra of free economic initiative, which goes brutally through everything, and even through the little man who was in this case, it's 32,000 people who have been massively flushed. And that is what we all see, and because when such anomalies occur, it is our responsibility and our duty to resolve them politically, because otherwise it is not possible. As far as the currency cap is concerned, it was explained, 5 percent is the cap that is still the right responsibility, this take-up of responsibility, or the risk will be on both sides and this cap will equalise these loans, as if they were taken if I understood correctly – in euros. [[…]] So the banks would still win those profits, not at any loss at all, but also the people who are at a mad loss, of course, this injustice would be corrected. And let's see what kind of injustice it was. For example, if someone took a loan of EUR 62 000 in 2006, he finally paid it back of EUR 100,000. Or another case that's been brought up today, I think, has already been mentioned. In 2008, you take a loan of 100,000 euros and you have a month's ration at the beginning of 637 euros, in 2015, while you have already returned 56 thousand 189 euros, and you find that your debt is suddenly EUR 110 000 552. So you didn't pay off nothing at all, chief, and it even increased you by 10 thousand 552 euros. Is that fair? Is this how it works with our people who want to solve their housing problem, and in the end, many have fallen into misery? However, there would be no social cases and there would be no social hardships if they did not experience such unheard-of injustice and such slander in front of everyone. And we are here today to talk about, I don't know, free economic initiative and bond relations, but we have forgotten everything else, which the proponent has explained very well, in order to dispel all doubts. I mean, that's true, but let's be gentle, let's listen to people, understand their pressures! [[…]] In fact, we're here mainly for the people. We are and must remain a social state and we must be obedient primarily to people. Let's keep him at work, not the other way around. How else am I supposed to tell you? Not that the capital is a sancro sancta and it's all subordinated and then we go over the bodies if necessary. Please, come on! I am so glad to hear many voices from the various political options that understand this problem in this national assembly, and I am very encouraged and pleased. I regret, however, that some continue to persist stubbornly in trenches and cruelly, without any feeling continuing to protect capital instead of human beings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u45	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? I take it it's an interest. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Vice President. Nice greetings, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Of course, the subject we are talking about today is sensitive, and it can also be very emotional. We see that it can be used perfectly for cheap populism, some calls, such that it is very difficult to listen to them, about the sensitivity and how people should give priority to capital and so on. But I will try to make one such slightly more serious substantive debate about this very complex issue. First of all, let me say that I am deeply sorry, and also in the SAB party, we have compassion for all the people who have been in distress because of these loans, have had personal difficulties, financial problems, perhaps many hours when they have dealt with them and become overly nervous. Let me also say that I have met many such people myself. As you know, the job I did before I was elected to the National Assembly was a lawyer, so I am very much involved in mediation, including family mediation. And in the family mediation, I had quite a few cases where they were divorcing, the partners were said to be partners who took credit together in Swiss francs. Now they have decided to divorce and, of course, this relationship has to be settled, and in the context of this mediation – this is what I helped as a mediator – we usually resolved this by agreeing – then the parties realized that they were going to the bank and converting their Swiss credit into two smaller euro loans, which these customers then paid for themselves and there were no problems. We've solved this several times. What I'm trying to say is that from some personal experience, I've met this problem several times myself. Surely this problem is pressing, and no one at the time that he took the loan imagined that this currency clause — it is said — would take credit in Swiss francs — would avenge him. But as long as I am in this House, I will also as a lawyer draw attention to some of the things that are extremely disturbing to me. What bothers me very much about this law is that we are solving one particular situation, life, tragically, with a populist law. We did the same thing a short time ago, and I haven't come to my senses yet, with those legal entities that were erased from the court register 20 years ago. These are some situations where in some legal relations the other was slightly different, something happened; something that also affected certain people. [[…]] But I'm wondering if these are situations dealing with marriage. We have courts that react in such cases. For example, in the case of the removal of legal persons from the register, the courts had done their duty long ago, the European Court of Human Rights had done so, and even the European Court of Human Rights, like the Constitutional Court, had decided at that time that the deletion had not been disputed – but, of course, the Constitutional Court had previously ruled that the family members of those persons were responsible. In short, I don't want to get involved in this story, I just want to say, as a case in point, when the courts have already done their job, and after 20 years, we have had the feeling that as legislators, we have to stand up to the courts and sort things out. Of course, I will also come to this amendment, but with the principle of the division of power, the situation here is similar. In some purely specific legal relationship, the contractual relationship, there have been some deviations. Our legal order, like any legal order, regulates and solves such things, and here too, as you know, the courts have repeatedly said that the matter should be assessed from case to case and, in the case of case, also to assess whether the specific bank of the borrower has informed the borrower of all the risks and circumstances of hiring a long-term loan in a foreign currency. That's a key question. Anyone who has read a little more about this knows that some banks here have been very successful in these lawsuits. So, they haven't lost, they've won, some banks will hear that Unicredit is, I think that's what it was – they've lost a lot of these things and they have to pay customers because they haven't done their duties. And that's absolutely right. All those who have been harmed in this way, and those where the bank has done something wrong, absolutely must receive some compensation. If I object in person, it is just that, over the finger by the legislator over the finger, it is said because it is populism and like, with the law to solve everything now and throw everything in the same basket. Once again, this law will now apply to all contracts in Swiss francs, regardless of whether such a contract has already ceased due to the payment of the loan, the cancellation by the bank, or if the bank has resold the debt claim, or if, for example, there has been a euro conversion. Our colleague, President Alenka Bratušek, will abstain from voting because she has found that the law also applies to her, who has already paid this loan eight years ago without any problems and will abstain. I mean, even those who have paid off the loan, which had no problems, are now going to get something from this title that we, as a legislator, are just doing, past the courts of this matter. I would also say that it was during that period that I, for example, rented the loan myself and that it was not so easy to get this credit in Swiss francs. They certainly do not hold to the statement of some that only socially disadvantaged citizens received them. If I remember correctly, you almost had to have connections, I'm a little joking, but I really think you got that loan. And some paid him off without problems, some converted him into euros in time, but some insisted and insisted on this loan and demanded some responsibility from the state. And once again: I feel very bad for them, I understand their plight, but here as a country we are going down on very thin ice. Now it may seem populism to someone, what about contractual relations and so on, but listen, these legal relations are centuries old, stem from Roman law and have one meaning. They provide one order, one purposeful operation of society. Mrs Sukič is already raising a nervous hand, because I will soon be finished, and you will say that everyone in distress needs to give money, but let us give money to those who do not have enough money, with one law – if we bring this to absurdity. In short, people are entitled to reparation if something was wrong if they were abused by the bank, if it was wrong and so on. If the bank has not applied its Explanatory Duty, the courts have repeatedly said that it belongs to them in individual proceedings. On the other hand, there are people who have decided then to go to the euro, who have not decided on the loans, and so on, who now wonders who will return something to them. A fellow acquaintance said to me a little in a joke yesterday: "Wait, Masha, I will now demand that the state with the law settles, I bought a car with a diesel engine five years ago. Diesel was cheaper at the time, then the country liberalised the fuel market, now diesel is much more expensive than gasoline, and I will demand that all car buyers with a diesel engine of the state, by law, return the difference in money they are paying for diesel fuel now, because we are damaged because when we bought it, the gasoline was cheaper." I know I've led this to absurdity, but I think we understand each other. In short, if I finish. We in the Sab party will not oppose this law, this law will obviously be adopted today, many people are very happy about it, I am sure that those who have persevered to the end and sought their right. Once again: the way we resolve this, through the intervention of the legislator and the National Assembly, is completely wrong and interferes with the very essence of our legal system. With such interventions, we will not come too far and break the relationship between the branches of power and break the rule of law, break the principles of legality and all life. As for the amendment of the Left, I say I will not support it. But now maybe I'll take another chance to answer a line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Replica Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u48	The replica, because the colleague, of course, tripped right at my word when I mentioned the tenderness of impure citizens and citizens. Look, buddy, the thing is, the regulator of Banka Slovenije knew it was a currency risk, and he was quiet. Bank of Slovenia regulator! And that's why we need to fix this injustice. And since there are more than obvious ads, today we have proved, indirectly, how people were deceived: a secure future, a minimum risk. That's not true! In 2007 and 2008, a high risk was recognised in neighbouring Austria, and Banka Slovenije, our regulator, knew that. And she kept her mouth shut! And that's why these contracts are really null and void, and even banks have protected themselves in contracts, not in lenders. Look at the contracts, and you'll see it! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I see the lady wants a word and I'll open another round. Here you go. Log in. [[…]] Masha Kociper has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u50	First of all, Mrs Sukič, we have talked about this several times before, the replica is intended for, please see the Rules of Procedure – for the Member to make an announcement when he thinks that he was not properly understood. I fully understood you, and I also correctly summarized you. That's the first thing. Second thing. I don't protect banks. I don't think any of us are protecting them. But let's not forget that banks are reality; they exist everywhere in the world, they exist with us, we depend on them all, we all do banking and so on. And an excuse, because all the banks are going to pay, because you know what happens after the banks run out of money – who has to pay? That's not how this argument convinces me. But once again, even on the replica that was said, of course, there were banks that did not comply with some code of ethics and so on, which, in your words, deceived borrowers. Such banks have been recognized in court proceedings and have lost lawsuits and have had to pay compensation to such people, reduce the contract, change the contract; all that is discussed in the law. I mean, this is the right way. The right way is to regulate such contractual relations in the manner provided for in the law and have been in force for years and years. This, in order for the Bank of Slovenia to react only because it was a currency clause, because currency clauses exist all the time! There's also a currency clause that says you can take credit in Yen. I don't know what the Bank of Slovenia should be doing here! I repeat, I warn, and I will again and again, and I will not allow this to happen, that certain issues, which are perfectly legal, contractual, binding, are not resolved by laws. And we do that in this national council. It's just wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. The amendment will be decided on Wednesday, 2 February 2022 in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is a second defensive proposal for a law to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The word has magic. Maja Hostnik Kališek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u52	Your Honor! The primary objective pursued by the proposal for a law before you is to transpose the three European Union legislative acts into the Slovenian legal order, namely Directive 2019/2177 in a part amending the fourth anti-money laundering directive, Directive 2019/1153 laying down rules for the facilitation of the use of financial and other information for the prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of certain offences and, thirdly, the implementation of Regulation 2018/1672 on the control of cash entering or leaving the Union. However, the proposal of the law, at the proposal of the debtor and the supervisory authorities, also contains some improvements in the functioning of the money laundering prevention system. Certain obligations of the debtors, which are now more stringent than the requirements of the Directive and which are disproportionate to the identified risks of money laundering and terrorist financing, will be useful to ensure greater competitiveness of the debtors compared to those of other Member States. For example, in certain cases, the possibility of a customer being examined without a personal presence is introduced, the possibility of using video electronic identification is further expanded and certain public law entities are excluded from the obligation to identify and record data of the beneficial owner in the register of the beneficial owners. It is also possible to allow other safe remote control or electronic identification procedures under certain conditions. In certain cases, insufficient control of the risk of money laundering has been detected in practice and the proposal imposes certain new tasks and obligations on the debtors and additional powers of the supervisory authorities. Furthermore, the proposal also provides new tools for the exchange of data between debtors and supervisory authorities. In this way, the commitments under this law will be more effectively implemented by the debtors and will manage the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing, while the supervisory authorities will cooperate more effectively and monitor each other. The proposal also lays down new offences with a view to improving the performance of supervisory tasks and the level of fines shall be adjusted to the amount of the revenue of the legal entity. It should also be clarified that the proposal for a new law empowers the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent money laundering in relation to the processing of personal data does not change substantially and remain to the same extent as in the applicable law. Neither do the powers of inspectors change. The primary objective of this novel is therefore to bring it into line with the acquis of the European Union, to better manage the risks of money laundering and to control it more effectively. I suggest you support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u53	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 43rd meeting on 19 January this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing submitted by the Government to the National Assembly. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, namely Article 16. In its introduction, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance presented the objectives and main solutions of the bill, with the primary objective of aligning national legislation with the European acquis, improving the management of money laundering risks and more effective supervision. In addition, the proposal also introduces some improvements in the functioning of the money laundering prevention system proposed by the debtors and the supervisory authorities, while also addressing certain inconsistencies and uncertainties. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that their technical comments with the coalition amendments of the parliamentary groups had been taken into account to a greater extent. It further highlighted three sets of substantive comments, which, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, are not in conformity with the Constitution. These substantive comments relate to provisions which, in the opinion of the Office, have a disproportionate impact on the protection of personal data, provisions where the inspector's powers in the inspection procedure are very or too wide and those relating to the issuance of various orders. In a very short discussion, some members of the Committee made comments to the Legislative and Information Services and requested clarification on the involvement of the public concerned in the drafting of the bill. It was explained that 18 stakeholders participated in the drafting of the law, whose names are also included in the accompanying material to the bill. Some coalition Members welcomed the bill in this regard and were somewhat critical of the numerous comments that refer to or relate to the protection of personal data. In the course of the discussion, the representative of the Anti-Money Laundering Office explained that the draft law had been recast from the novel and that any comments that were possible had been taken into account and that those comments which could not be accepted had been rejected. He further provided precise explanations and argued that he rejected all comments made by the Legal and Information Commissioners. He also stressed the importance of complying with international standards and recommendations that are indirectly binding on Slovenia as they provide us with appropriate international financial, administrative and other information. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups and adopted all 16 amendments. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, in which amendments are incorporated, is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the amendment is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u55	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The positions of the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We are considering a new law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. In fact, the main objective of the bill is to transpose European directives into the Slovenian legal order. The law contains a number of improvements and does not affect the concept of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism-1. We point out that by eliminating certain inconsistencies and uncertainties, by pardoning certain requirements and by introducing additional tools in the implementation of the measures by the debtors and the control mechanisms, it is ensured that the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing is managed more effectively by the debtors and by the supervisory authorities. Thus, in addition to complying with the European Union's secondary legislation in some parts, the bill provides a slightly clearer regulation and simplification of certain procedures. Among other things, a less stringent way of identifying a customer without a personal presence will be introduced if the risk of money laundering or terrorist financing is negligible. The requirements or conditions relating to the execution of the video electronic identification and the proposal of the Strategic Council for digitisation will also be preferred under certain conditions to allow for another secure, remote control or electronic identification procedure. The changes will also facilitate the exchange of information and data. Ladies and gentlemen, when considering the proposal, it is worth recalling that the role of the crime detection and prosecution authorities in the area under consideration remains crucial and irreplaceable, which must carry out their part of the responsibility for the prosecution of crime of money laundering and terrorist financing. That this was a major problem in Slovenia, at least in the past, is well illustrated by the Farrokh case, where between 2008 and 2010 a billion dollars traveled through an account in a state bank to thousands of anonymous addresses around the world. He's a mag investigator. I would like Pezdir to point out that this is the biggest financial scandal in the history of our country, and I quote: “Firstly because it is billions, and secondly because never before in the country has something that bears the suspicion of a crime been practically buried until years later a completely unrelated commission happens to be excavated. It's a frantic thing. At least we knew about any suspected crime in this country, and we didn't even know it happened. Fragmentary collapse of institutions in handling this problem, silence and billions of dollars. All of this constitutes the biggest financial scandal in the history of the country." Members of New Slovenia will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u58	Dear Vice President, distinguished guests, fellow Members and fellow Members! In the second half of 2020, we adopted a new Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism in the National Assembly. We have already warned in the SAB that the novel is inappropriately transposed by the rules of Europe and that the Government of this area is on its left hand. Today we have an entirely new law that is to be imposed by a number of European directives. In doing so, the proposer wants us to believe that the law brings improvements to the functioning of the system, more effective risk management and control. But it's not like that. It is the continuation of this government's farce in relation to constitutional regulation, the rule of law as a whole and the pursuit of the ambition of political submission. In particular, legal solutions run counter to the constitutional and legal arrangements for the protection of personal data. They allow the maximum concentration of data from natural and legal persons under the same roof. The Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism is given unlimited powers to manage personal data, which opens the door to abuse and to interference with privacy. The Office’s inspectors will have a new right to enter every private space, to review all the documentation in this room and to conduct investigations without requiring a court’s decision. The Office will have all the records we have in the country, either your health, family, financial and property status, bank transactions, and criminal records. And – beware – that the Office is processing your data you will never know, as the Office is not obliged to inform you about it, and even less to explain why it has come up. Your data will also be transmitted by the Office to other authorities with the permission of three ministers. If such a situation occurs tomorrow, the fate of your privacy will be decided by Minister Aleš Hojs, Minister Marjan Dikaucič and Minister Andrej Šircelj. The Office, which is part of the executive branch of the Authority, is not obliged to report to the National Assembly, but only to the Government. An information officer who is independent of our personal data will have no control over this office. The entire legal profession has responded strongly to the proposed amendments. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has highlighted on 17 pages the reasons for the unconstitutionality of such a law, which it has also supported by a number of jurisprudence. Last March, the Office received a new director, the elected Prime Minister of the Government. Shortly thereafter, the entire archive material of the office moved to the Ministry of Finance. All the above-mentioned black-and-white evidence that the adoption of this law will interfere disproportionately with the privacy of our citizens and allow political accountability with the opponents of the government. In the SAB Group, we believe that we have not yet achieved such a degree of control in Slovenia that we could be satisfied with. The above shows a number of money laundering affairs that have not yet received their epilogue. We recall a loan worth almost half a million, which Djana Djudžić, who is now the leader of the SDS, has allowed the NKBM to cancel the transaction accounts, allegedly due to difficulties in explaining the origin of the money. Recall the money laundering affair investigated by the Macedonian law enforcement authorities. They suspect that it is difficult to hide the money laundering of the government of Orban through Slovenia for €3 million. However, we cannot ignore the fact that the ruling party in the Iranian money laundering affair has called on all responsible persons to resign from political, public and high official functions. The recent testimony of Roko Snezič on the commission investigating the alleged money laundering at the New Credit Bank Maribor and the alleged illegal financing of the ruling party proves that only a change of law will not eradicate money laundering. To achieve this goal, it is necessary to change the values of the rulings. There is no doubt that the draft law also pursues important objectives of public interest, but this does not mean that there is a right to grave interference in constitutional and European rights on the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. The SAB Group will oppose the proposed legal solutions due to unconstitutionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u59	Thank you, too. The position of the Group will in particular be presented by the mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, invited, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! We have before us the proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, which, on the one hand, introduces additional mechanisms for the implementation of control measures and, on the other hand, eliminates certain inconsistencies and uncertainties in the previous law. All of this with a view to preparing a basis that will enable more effective management of the risk of money laundering and financing of terrorism in our country. In the Group of Members, we see in particular the main reason for amending legislation, particularly in some of the shortcomings of the existing law, which may cause confusion in the debtors due to a lack of clarity. The purpose of implementing the new law is also seen in the preparation of a basis that will serve to translate certain EU directives into our proper order. These include, inter alia, guidelines and rules to facilitate the use of financial and other information for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of certain criminal offences. At the same time, the proposed law also provides for certain new tasks and obligations of the debtors in areas where it has been shown in the past that the risk of money laundering has not been adequately managed. In the Group of Members, we are particularly convinced that the proposed innovations do not change the essence of the current system of prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. It is therefore only minor corrections made to the desire for a more efficient functioning of the system concerning both the conduct of the debtors and the exercise of supervision by the competent authorities. The regulation of the system of control over money laundering and terrorist financing is essential for the operation of all social subsystems, and this is particularly true for the economy. In our view, therefore, each country should strive to find the optimum balance between the standards of control over the money flows of people on the one hand and to hinder the economic participation of individuals through bureaucratic and other obstacles on the other. We believe that it is possible to establish a robust and effective control system that will effectively detect incorrect actions while acting discreetly and will not interfere radically with people's everyday lives. In the parliamentary group, we will hear different arguments for and against the bill and on the basis of what we have heard, we will decide on our support.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism Act, adopted in 2016, has transposed into our legal order a European directive adopted a year earlier. The current law thus lays down measures, competent authorities and procedures to detect and prevent money laundering and terrorist financing and regulates the inspection of the implementation of its provisions. The intensity of developments and changes in the international and domestic business environment requires a new law. The proposal for a new law follows the following basic objectives: harmonising national legislation with the European acquis, improving risk management and more effective control. It also introduces some improvements in the functioning of the money laundering prevention system proposed by the debtors or the supervisory authorities and eliminates certain inconsistencies and uncertainties in the current system. It is proposed to mitigate certain obligations of the debtors as the applicable law sets them more stringently than those laid down in the requirements of the Directive and other international standards, thus disproportionate in view of the risks identified. There are also new tasks and obligations of the debtors, where there has been in practice a perception of insufficient risk management. New institutes or tools are also being introduced, with the help of which the debtors will more effectively carry out legal obligations and manage the risks of such offences; the supervisory authorities shall exercise more effective control. Therefore, additional powers are conferred on them and criminal provisions are being adapted. The categories of debtors providing virtual currency services will be aligned with the recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force. However, the provision concerning the data obtained for the purposes of the register of providers of virtual currencies shall be supplemented and the serious infringements of that law shall be added as a reason for the deletion from that register. The bill also provides for the replacement of European supervisory authorities with the European Banking Authority. An unregulated review of a customer without a personal presence shall be introduced in the event of a minor risk of money laundering or terrorist financing. The conditions relating to video electronic identification shall be respected, the limits of cash transactions extended to payments above a statutory threshold, as well as exceptions to the application of the provisions on the limits of cash transactions to banks, savings offices and exchange offices. Money laundering is all procedures and processes for the use of money or property acquired through criminal offences aimed at obtaining the characteristics of legally acquired property. It is therefore a crime which must be prevented and suppressed by the State. The draft law complements the powers of the Office in order to effectively control the implementation of the obligations of business entities. The legal basis for access to the data of the Office by the primary supervisors is also laid down for the purpose of carrying out risk-based control. However, recommendations and guidelines will be issued in respect of which a new Regulation will be adopted, which will further regulate how these data will be anonymised and transmitted. The bill interferes with the existing system and significantly improves it in order to better manage the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing. The quality of implementation will depend on the operators, on the employees of the Office and on the other eight supervisory institutions set out in the law, and from the Bank of Slovenia to the Notary Chamber of Slovenia. Members of the Desus Group will take a decision on support or non-support to the law after the conclusion of the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u63	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. A nice greeting to all of you once again! One of the key missions of each democratic state must be adopted by such legal frameworks as to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. From the perspective of general prevention, such measures are necessary so that we can act as a society. A society where terrorism is to the fullest extent excluded and effectively protected by the financial system can be developed and offered to its members a democratic environment, but despite all the legal frameworks adopted, it must be careful not to interfere with human rights. The prevention of terrorism cannot and must not justify borderless interference with information privacy. The right to the protection of personal data is placed on a very high level in our legal order. We believe that the law is incomplete in several places and is contrary to constitutional provisions, as it intervenes too widely in personal data. The Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering receives unlimited powers to process personal data and to intervene in private matters. We have identified major problems, namely in sections 94 and 159 of the Act. In Article 94, the Office shall be given an extensive mandate to have direct and indirect access to the data. Thus, it is not sufficiently clear and precisely defined which data can be processed, how it is obtained, for which it is processed, and how long it is processed. In short, it's very invasive interference with personal data. However, Article 159 gives the inspector a very broad mandate in the inspection procedure, as he will be able to enter the premises against the will of the owner and perform other investigative actions. Such a mandate is very dangerous, as such interventions may be authorised by a court of law only. The storage of data which may last for 30 years after the business operator has been deleted is also essential for too long. Marriage is certainly a good tool for those in power, but it is very dangerous for targeted persons. The State must ensure the functioning of the financial system and prevent terrorist activities, but it must do so within the limits of the current development of human rights. There is a great deal of jurisprudence, both national and international, on this subject, and we want the latter to be much more consistently taken into account in this law. However, in the context of legal measures, terrorism must already be suppressed in the field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u65	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u66	Although the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism has already been amended twice in this mandate, Slovenia has yet to transpose two more directives in this area into our legal order. These commitments were followed by a new amendment to the law, which was published on the eDemocracy portal in November 2020, which was followed by a public debate. That version would also be ready to be supported by the Group of Non-Aligned Members. The bill that we are considering today does not, however, constitute the said transposition of EU rules into the Slovenian legal order. This is a completely different text that no one has ever been familiar with. Two key stakeholders, the Information Officer and the Association of Slovenian Accountants, who pointed out that they had not been familiar with the proposal before the hearing in the National Assembly, addressed the National Assembly. In particular, it can be understood from the comments of the information officer that the applicants have incorporated solutions in the new law that have nothing to do with the transposition of the said Directives but are even contrary to them. Moreover, contrary to the Slovenian rules and regulations of the European Union in the field of the protection of personal data, they are incompatible with the practice of the Court of Justice of the European Union and also with the numerous decisions of the Constitutional Court. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also confirmed those comments by the information officer and at the same time drew attention to further non-compliance with EU rules. Moreover, it has made a very clear reference to the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the Court of Justice of the European Union, which are in breach of the proposed law. Therefore, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we cannot agree to the will of the president of the parent working body, who has earned the right of an exclusive assessor of the relevance of the key stakeholders' comments on the otherwise completely different text of the 2020 Act, and his decision not to be added to the material after his assessment of the comments. Even more so have we been struck by the debate of the coalition Members, who have been critical of many comments by the Legal and Information Commissioners. If all those mentioned in this area, according to our assessment, were to read the above infringements of EU rules, the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Constitutional Court, it should be clear to them that the government or someone in the government had imagined establishing a supra-national body that would have more powers than the police and Sova together in the area of data collection and processing. For example, the police may only carry out their special investigation measures against an individual, such as tracing, eavesdropping and the like, on the basis of a judicial order and only in the event of reasonable suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed. The powers of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering in respect of the processing of personal data and private interventions will thus be unlimited and will exceed the powers of all other public authorities without having at all adequate safeguards to prevent abuses and protect the rights of individuals. The Office, which is part of the executive branch of the Authority, reports only to ministers and to the Government. However, the Office will be able to transmit the data thus obtained to other authorities, but only to those designated by the troika of ministers – finance, internal affairs and justice – without all the criteria. The law even goes so far as to allow the Office, at its own discretion, to refuse even the transmission of data to the court, the State Prosecutor's Office and the Police. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we point out that, following international comparative reviews, Slovenia has an exemplary legal order to combat money laundering and terrorist financing following international standards. In foreign countries, such authorities are established to obtain information on suspicious transactions, to analyse them and to mediate them to the prosecution and to the police in case of suspected criminal services. However, trends in the operations of these organisations abroad are going to reduce supervisory powers. For all of this, we will oppose the law in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u67	The position of the SDS Group will be presented by the mag. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Very welcome, Secretary of State and fellow Members and fellow Members! The problem of the prevalence of organised and financial crime in relation to money laundering is becoming more and more urgent, and the risks in recent years have increased in various forms of financing for terrorism, and criminal activities are seeking to create illegal property benefits. Money laundering poses a serious threat to the stability and integrity of financial institutions, undermines the stability and reputation of the financial sector, threatens the internal market and its competitiveness and, above all, undermines confidence in the democratic institutions of modern society in the long term. Money is washed when its true origin is not visible and has all the characteristics of legitimately acquired property. The final objective of money laundering is the gradual inclusion of laundered money or assets in normal business flows, which form part of legitimate business activity or investment in existing or new criminal activity. As a result of the above and also on the basis of practical examples, Slovenia has also joined in solving this problem and has adopted the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act 1 (ZPPDF-1) in 2016. With this law, we have transposed into the Slovenian legal order regulations or regulations of the European Union that further regulate the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing at the level of the European Union as a whole. Its basis, however, is Directive 2015/849 of the European Union. The provisions of that Directive have already been transposed into the Slovenian legal order in most cases by the original law. This bill, however, continues to implement European rules and introduce improvements in the functioning of the money laundering prevention system in order to preserve the key principle of protecting the Slovenian financial system from the consequences of money laundering and terrorist financing. The following solutions are proposed on the basis of the comments and proposals of the debtors and the findings of the supervisory authorities: the completion of the dictatorship of certain existing provisions and new provisions that address uncertainties, the mitigation of certain obligations of the debtors which are more stringent and disproportionate in the existing law, the completion of tasks and obligations of the debtors, the introduction of new institutions or tools, the additional powers of the supervisory authorities, the adaptation of criminal fines and the editorial improvement of the existing law. Money laundering is strongly linked to the financing of terrorism, which has become an extremely serious threat to peace and social development at both European and global levels, and it is therefore important that legal solutions are drawn up at the highest possible level of the community. Money laundering is also problematic by tax evasion, making the state budget poor. It must therefore be limited and eradicated. However, since money launderers are active in making their work innovative, the legislator must constantly amend its legislation and thus actively respond to the new situation. Although a number of comments were made at the meeting of the Finance Committee and also in writing by the Information Officer and the Legal and Legislative Service, the Slovenian Democratic Party believes that the representative of the Anti-Money Laundering Office has made clear enough that the Republic of Slovenia is committed to taking into account international standards and recommendations of the international financial action organisation, thus providing us with access to relevant international, financial, administrative and other information. Therefore, the proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing will be unitedly supported in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u69	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Andre Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u70	Honourable Vice President, Government Representative, colleagues and colleagues! The law that we are considering is a completely new law, covering 150 pages, and even 202 pages with the relevant regulations and regulations. In the LMŠ, we believe that the issue of prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism is extremely important and needs to be given a lot of attention, as it is constantly being updated; therefore, we started reading the bill with a very positive fervor, but it did not last very long. It is quite amazing how the coalition manages to reintroduce into every single law a solution that points to an already clinical picture of a desire to change all the operating subsystems, which this time complements with a desire for the full control of citizens. Let us begin with a comment by the Accounting Services Chamber, which points out that the proposed law was not subject to public consideration at all, as the proposal for a novel was publicly considered, which was confirmed indirectly by the representative of the Office. In the LMŠ, we believe that this has violated the procedures for the drafting of the law and that the legislative process should be stopped and the bill published in the manner envisaged for the drafting procedures. It is also concerned that the information officer explained in detail that many provisions are not in conformity with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the General Data Protection Regulation, but that the SDS, NSI and, in particular, does not respond to this. Legislation regarding the protection of personal data is not of interest. Under this law, the Office will be able to collect data from virtually all records in the country. The Office’s inspectors are expected to have the opportunity to enter the premises against the will of their owner, to review the documentation and to carry out other investigations. Banks, savings banks and other payment institutions will have to report to the Office on all cash and non-cash transactions over EUR 15,000, whether or not they are at risk under the criteria of money laundering or terrorist financing. Furthermore, the Office will report only to the Government, but not to the National Assembly, but at the same time, at its own discretion, I repeat, once again, at its own discretion, it may even reject the transmission of data to the Court of Justice, the State Prosecutor's Office and the Police. The staff of the Office will thus be able to provide the information obtained to other authorities if they request financial information and analysis from the Office. To which authorities, three ministers would be appointed by law – finance, home affairs and justice. However, to decide who will be able to obtain this information, they are not bound by any criteria, as proposed by law. Your Honor, all of this opens up a large room for misuse of data for political and other purposes. We can already read that the Office's new leadership from the Office's premises has decided to move the documentation on the matters that the Office has led in the last decade and a half. Moreover, it is increasingly said that employees should be pressured to deal with people who are not at the will of the ruling party. And if I take further the proposal of the Penal Code, supported by the ruling coalition on the committee and rejected it yesterday at the meeting, it is clear that before the elections, all efforts are being made to ensure that certain first-class voters are released as soon as possible and that all others are subject to unconstitutional supervision and collection of their data. Therefore, it would be right for the coalition to vote on such a controversial law that the law goes to constitutional review. Because of all the above facts, we strongly oppose the proposed law in the LMŠ.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the Ambassador of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! A new attempt at the unacceptable extension of the repressive powers of the state authorities is ahead of us. The rulings will refer to the title of the law and to the need for decisive action against criminals of money laundering and terrorist financing, but in the first place let us stress that this law does not establish an effective Anti-Money Laundering Office, but establishes a political financial service with extensive repressive powers and unrestricted access to personal data, which will be allowed to enter people's homes without judicial orders, and the proposal of the law even binds them to the courts. Many will be disturbed by these harsh words, but they are only a response to the reality and to the concrete proposal sent by the Government to the National Assembly. How else can we explain certain provisions of the proposed law, which are read somehow. In the transmission of data, information and documentation to the Office under this Act for the debtor, the State authority or other public authority, the Court, the State Prosecutor's Office, their employees shall not be subject to the obligation to protect classified information, business secrets, professional secrecy and confidential bank data. How else should we understand a body that will have the right to unlimited access, collection and processing of all personal data bases in the country and which will report only to a government that, in recent months, does not even conceal the politicisation of its activities. The proposal for a law to replace the current one has been proposed by the Government without coordination with key stakeholders and the professional public. The time for public hearing was reduced to a minimum, but the comments received did not even take into account or explain to the applicants why it rejected their proposals. The powers conferred on the Office by the proposal for a law shall constitute the right of unlimited collection, storage and processing of a variety of personal data for which there is no real and reasonable reason and shall not be permitted by the general rules on the protection of personal data. The abuse is thus not only possible, by implementing the bill, they would be incorporated into the system as the basic way in which the Office could operate, which could control any citizen without his knowing it, or if there were reasonable suspicions about it, let alone a judicial order. We have accepted in the National Assembly the extensive and concerned responses of the Information Commissioner, the Accounting Services Chamber and the Consumer Union of Slovenia. All draw attention to the excessive powers with regard to the collection and processing of personal data. The broad opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly places emphasis on the subject of criticism and draws attention to disproportionate, excessive and unjustified interference with the constitutional rights of people, while at the same time proving that there is a need for government compliance with the European transposition directives. Therefore, it is also quite clear to the legal laity that, if adopted, this law will certainly be found to be inconsistent with the Constitution and repealed in the Constitutional Court. And those who disagree with such a decision by the Constitutional Court will be quick to explain that it is again a case of felonies who do not allow them to make order in the country. However, experience also teaches us that in the meantime the rulings will use every peak and limit of this office's exceptional powers; not for the prosecution of crime, but for the prosecution of all those who are disruptive and competitive with that authority. Respected, money laundering and terrorist financing are serious problems that require coordinated and extensive repressive powers and, of course, extensive data collection and processing. It is also true that the existing system is not ideal and an upgrade is needed, but the content and method proposed by the Government only means more mistrust, illegality and inefficiency. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will stand unitedly and resolutely against the implementation of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u73	Thank you, too. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Vice President. Fighting money laundering and any detection of corruption and, of course, criminal practices is certainly something that must be the priority of every country; and of course, this is a thing that no reasonable person can oppose. But this isn't today's debate. Today, we are not primarily talking about how to improve and tighten the fight to prevent money laundering, but we are essentially dealing with talking again about one so-called planter that this government is putting practically into every law that goes on to open it. This is the 17th page of the long opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the law, which refers to a number of contradictions in this law. This is, of course, also the opinion sent by the Information Officer, in which he makes it very clear that he is essentially the common denominator of this law in the field of powers acquired by the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering; this is mass processing of personal data and unlimited powers. If we are talking about the powers the Money Laundering Office must have, the answer is, of course – yes, high. If we really want to fight this kind of crime, the Office has to have all the resources to work. But how this government imagines these powers, but it's a whole other thing. If we go in order. The Information Officer points out that these powers are set — once again — so to speak, unlimited and exceed the powers of all other national authorities; and, of course, he does not introduce any appropriate safeguards and, of course, no provisions for the protection of the rights of individuals in the proceedings of the Office. In public in recent days or weeks, it has been said that we cannot talk about human rights or the personal rights of these criminals, those involved in money laundering. I agree that this is where we need to weigh very carefully, but the question raised by this law is the following: whose personal rights will be affected by this law. And these are not exclusively suspicious people. As it is said, general and unlimited powers will be able to reach anyone in practice. The government will be able to determine who will be investigated and who will not be investigated, and it will also decide through the Office on the extent to which it will be processed. This law will make available to the Anti-Money Laundering Office virtually all the records that exist in this country. They will be able to look at the data of the pension register, they will be able to look at the medical records, the data of Furs and so on; and for this it will be enough to buy the car. If you buy a car that will cost more than 15,000 euros, someone will be able to decide that this business will be investigated regardless of whether it is suspicious, not suspicious, and so on. In this way, the Office will in fact be able to create a national mega-data collection of all data on each individual in this country. As we have already heard – no guards. This Office reports only to the Government and its work is directed by the Government. No democratic control, no reports in the National Assembly, no permits from the National Assembly. On top of all this, no one will know when and to what extent he is being investigated; unless, of course, they want to enter your private premises. If I finish. The fight against money laundering – absolutely yes, but not over all the standards that should apply in each country. Unconstitutional and controversial powers are certainly not the answer to how to prevent money laundering for two reasons. Such a law, if adopted, cannot make sense and in our legal order no matter who is in power. In this current situation we are living today, however, giving such unlimited powers to the SDS party and the ruling coalition is madness. We are talking about people who — while saving lives — filled their own pockets. We are talking about people who would ban their political opponents. We are talking about people who do not have any reservations about discrediting their political opponents, and we are talking about people who have no boundaries in false discredits and intimidation of other thinkers. In Levika we will absolutely oppose this law and, of course, do everything not to be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 1. 2022 and in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am putting to the debate Article 194 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing he does. The application shall be made. I'm asking you to sign up. Six panellists have been reported. The first one gets the word of Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Vice President. We have tabled this amendment for some very practical reasons. The first is that we have this debate today, otherwise this law would literally go away without any serious attention or serious debate. With the amendment, we propose to move the law into 2030, simply because this thing is unacceptable and unconstitutional, if it does not prevent it, but at least to move on to a later date. I believe that the next government will be significantly more reasonable in its operation; and if this law is not in force, it will also be significantly easier to abolish and thus prevent the intermediate damage that may occur at that time. Once again, the powers conferred by this law on the Anti-Money Laundering Office are too large and excessive, without safeguards, without any serious consideration of the consequences they may have. Looking at such broad databases, irresponsibility or rejection of liability to the courts and so on, looking at data from the pension, health checkhouse, Fursa data, in order to accumulate this data in one place, under one person, for a substantial amount of time, is dangerous. Since we are talking about the fact that even without some suitable basis or the reason why the Office should collect this information, there is some very negative call. We see that it is a very clear intention to strengthen or disseminate this database of information about all. And given the provision that the Minister will be able to determine the conditions of an exception that will not be investigated and who will be investigated, he speaks of what some have experienced in recent days with changes in legislation, when, as a result of some statements, such as on social networks, you get a payment order from the Police for this. Here is the purpose of the current ruling coalition to silence and to go beyond its opponents by all means and all those who think otherwise are very expressive and not even so abstract. I think that these fears and pressures on everyone who thinks otherwise have become part of everyday life, and I think that such practices should be cut off and strongly condemned. And this law, as it is now prepared, shows that the Office will become another one of these instances, another of these institutions that will have leverage to give the largest coalition party information and access to how to discredit someone. It wouldn't be the first time we've seen such experiments, and it would just be an extra pool of such receptions for SDS. Our amendment, once again, very clearly postpones the implementation of the law in 2030 for one simple reason — to be implemented as soon as possible, so that the next government has enough time to abolish or correct it. However, if this law is actually going to end today and be adopted, I think it would be very useful to think about the other democratic institutions that still exist to prevent it. I think that such a case in the Constitutional Court should not, under any circumstances, cease the constitutional judgment. This will certainly be one of the things to consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u77	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u78	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. For the SAB, a strong legal state is one of the priorities and we are fighting for it at any time. In particular, we must strive to strengthen and strengthen the rule of law, to respect the constitutional division of power into the executive, legislative and judicial branches of power and to know what powers any branch of authority has. And that is also why it calls for all to take in the spirit of the Constitution and start to apply it in the government in everyday life. What this law provides for under the cover of the fight against terrorism is that one office, without a judicial decision to enter the apartment, can collect data, with the consent of even three ministers, to transmit them to other authorities. We are afraid, and it is very justified that this also means abuse of power. Let us recall the last event when a former Member and Minister were indicted by the police administration on one Twitter account because he was supposed to insult or humiliate the police. In fact, what the government wants with such a proposal has shown, of course, precisely in such actions that we cannot accept as normal and reject in the SAB. Once again, in Slovenia we have constitutionally divided three branches of government and these branches are independent and each branch has its own constitutional functions, tasks and competences. And restrictions. And what is now being done to essentially give one authority in the executive branch, which is directly subordinate to the Government, practically unlimited powers, unlimited powers, is not in the spirit of the Constitution. This is pointed out by the legal profession, as pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, which even made comments on 17 pages. And of course we can't do anything other than follow legal standards and findings. And we will not support such a bill because we believe it is inconsistent with the Constitution, because we believe that the executive branch of power grants judicial powers. Do you know what that means? I think someone is so arrogant that he doesn't even hide it, that without shame he writes that the executive branch of the judiciary has jurisdiction, that's unacceptable. And when we look, in essence, at the defamation of the judiciary, i.e. the slander of judges, prosecutors, deliberate lying or misleading, to say that they do not have exams, that they have false diplomas, that they have falsifications with the aim of violating or violating their reputation, of course, the intention of the government is clear. And, of course, we in the SAB as part of the democratic opposition cannot agree with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Out of absurdity to absurdity. Look, I'm not going to be nice about anything, and I'm going to say things straight to the public, so I'm going to make it absolutely clear what's going on here. Nicely packed, bombastic, the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, super, conveniently, the transposition of the European Directive. What is he really hiding? A marriage proposal that does what? Which allows you to have virtually unlimited powers to process personal data and intrusion into the privacy of anyone. Also based on anonymities, as we read, also based on anonymities. And it's said that your inspectors would be able to enter our premises without a court order without a court order and search our computers and phones. Just like that, they're gonna walk in, ring our doorbells and hop-cups, let's go. No orders. You will also be able to gather data from virtually all the country's records, as has already been said here many times today, without needing it at all, for certain specific procedures. Why? Before the election, of course. How convenient, how convenient. This is the last step on the way to the office that has been run since last year — who? – SDS elector Damjan Žugelj turns right before the elections into a tool and a weapon for political accounting with opponents of the ruling party. Pika. That's really what this is about. The granting of SDS powers to gather data on all and the surface of everything through processes and needs is still an opportunity to enter our private premises, is dangerous and is absolutely unconstitutional. And if you go through with this, look, it's gonna happen in the Constitutional Court for the next minute. We know that it is people standing there who are architects of this foundation, who would even ban political opponents, who would even delete some customers from the customer register. So it's people who don't have any boundaries when they falsely discredit and intimidate other thinkers. And this is actually an affair at the level of yesterday's affair, when you wanted to change the Penal Code by rehabilitating you, and that the obsolete hands would be cut short for various uses and impossibility. The media, of course, got their hands on interesting photos. In the offices of the Office, there is suddenly a room to collect classified information. It has a nice big red letter T. It was once an archive, the materials were transferred from this archive, I think, to the Ministry of Finance, and now there's a big data collection headquarters there. But their targets, of course, are who? Opposition politicians, well-known entrepreneurs, individual journalists and other critics of the government. In short, all those who do not have the will to do so, based on anonymity. The anonymous guy who created them where? In the basement of the Trieste or where? What are you kidding about coming to the National Assembly with this kind of thing? Well, that's a disaster. Literally a disaster. Who can enter this famous room T? Yeah, who else? Special constituencies or so-called Grospel headquarters could be called. I can give you exactly the names of these people who have special powers now and the special trust of Zuglja, the former Director of the Securities Market Agency during the first Janša government, and he came to the head of the Office last March. And then all of this documentation, including the documentation of the Patria affair, was nicely transferred from this archive to another one and now there's a special room with secret information marked with the letter T in red. There are photographs published by the media. Then explain it to us. There's a sign on her door that prohibits unauthorized persons from entering. And who are the authorized persons? Yes, of course, as it is said, practically the Grospel headquarters, some headquarters where the chosen ones stand up, along with Žuglje, four more people – Simona Kavčič, Ivan Kopina, Petra Zakrošek, Melita Mersel Hočevar, most of them coming from Grosuplje, from the great base of our prime minister. In short, that's how you imagine it. And now you would like to give me this amendment, which, of course, is moving to some absurd period just to allow for a debate at all, to let the public see this horror and hear what you actually picture here just before the elections; you would do it beautifully elegantly. It does not prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. Sounds like a Nobel laureate. Of course, we are all to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing and, of course, European directives must be transposed; only not in the way you imagine them here. That's nice of you to say what you're imagining, how dare you. Do you think the limit for you is really just the sky? Against this, it is absolutely necessary to vote and to go to the Constitutional Court for the next minute if you vote to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u81	Thank you, too. Lydia Divac Mirnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u82	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greetings, government representatives, colleagues, colleagues! This debate is interesting today. I'm probably not going to say anything new than what we've already said, I've already written down and, of course, it was immediately alarming. In March 2020, I said that this government of SDS, NSI and concrete with SNS and Desus are taking us and introducing us to dictatorship, dictatorship, dictatorship. Today the SNS is even, you won't believe it, you said it wouldn't support it. Congratulations on that decision. And what happened then. I have been involved in all possible attacks by all the trumpets that exist in this country, but today, of course, I can only find out where we have fallen in these bad two years. Is this really what we wanted 30 years ago? I don't think so. Every day, but every day and every proposal that comes to the table proves exactly what I said in March 2020 to take us to the dictatorship. Every loving day they prove it. By decrees, by laws, by water cannons, by control, by lawsuits, by punishment, of course, people lose their jobs, if they write something down, they pay the penalty for not even starting to discuss the media. An affair to an affair, an affair. An affair, an affair every day. That's the government. And new evidence, a man who doesn't work, who doesn't read laws, those voters and voters, citizens, citizens who don't face it regularly and don't follow it, would say, "Well, because it's just some law, it's called the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism." What's it to me? What is it about some ordinary citizen who, of course, does not launder money or finance terrorism? That's what an ordinary person thinks. But of course, this is not the case, for this marriage is very tanciful for all of us. All of us, especially those who are treated as opponents of this government. The Information Officer, the Accounting Services Chamber, the ZPS – they have made it clear that this authority, the Anti-Money Laundering Office, will have access to all possible databases, unlimited data collection and processing. Why we already have a GDPR in this country, one can really ask. On its 18th page, however, the SPS explicitly warned that absolute powers were laid down in this law. Who's the one that's been throbbing here since the coalition?Oh, my God! Not a thing. This shows that no one is in the hall, or a colleague is there. The draft law gives the Office a very wide, so-called unlimited power to obtain personal data in stock.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u83	Dear colleague, please focus on the amendment and not on the general debate. I think you're... [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u84	Mr President, thank you for this note. I'm explaining why we're going to support this amendment that [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u85	Dear colleague, you have no business right to reach out to me. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u86	I would politely ask you not to interrupt me for a start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u87	I warned you to focus on the amendment and not on the general debate [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u88	I am focusing on the amendment, where I explain why we will support this amendment, which translates this law into 2030, because everything is wrong with this law. And now I'm explaining what's wrong with this law so we can support this amendment. Thank you so much for not jumping into my word. Extensive powers, as I say. This matrimony is regulated by law in a dispersal and non-systematic manner in various parts of this law. You will not believe the different collection of personal data and also the processing are hidden, among other things, in 75., 94., 96., 97., 99., 100., 101., 102., 104., 107., 108., 126., 131., 132., 149. and 150. That is why an amendment has been tabled and therefore, if not today, it is necessary to vote against what, of course, we will do in the LMŠ, at least to postpone it to 2030, because the next government has to cancel or correct it immediately. The issue of regulations, the unlimited collection of personal data and, of course, what I don't know, why anyone should be interested in, why someone should be interested in looking into my pension stuff, medical records. Why should anyone be interested in that? Why should some of the electorate in this office have authority to do so? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u89	Dear Lydia Divac Mirnik, I suggest you [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u90	Why is that?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u91	Focus [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u92	Because I explain why this amendment needs to be supported, Mr President. Thanks for not jumping on me. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u93	There's something we need to understand first. I suggest you speak of an amendment that relates to the determination of the law and is extended by 8 years. We do not have a general debate here on the law, because you could have done this already on the committee, on the working body, and I hope that you participated in the debate there. But now we are talking about a much narrower issue, and we are not talking about the 5th, not the 15th, not the 101st, but the 194th. And I suggest you just focus on those reasons. The explanation of voice and other things is still following. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u94	As it is said, the amendment must of course be supported, even because we do not allow inspectors to enter our apartments without orders. Because we do not allow inspectors to search our drawers without court decisions, because there is no need to have all the data we have in Slovenia and then process them. And what's even more terrifying is that they're going to treat you, and you won't even know it. And this marriage, Your Honor, is a scandalous option that this government has recalled now that it is taking us to dictatorship. And what's the most interesting thing about this story? Whether you are being investigated or not, it will be up to Minister Hojs, Minister Dikaucič, where one can only say - let us cry immediately, and at this moment Minister Shircelj, because he is the Minister of Finance. And it's not that she's a horror, it's more than a horror. And, Your Honor, this is the candy that this government gives us, and it will taste very bitter. And there are no safeguards to prevent abuses under this law, none. And, dear, the next phase is one way or another to deal with all of us who are intruding in one way or another. And that is also the purpose of this law. Therefore, we will not support this law in any way or in any way in our dreams.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sukich, you will have your word. I suggest that all those who are discussing focus on the amendment tabled. There is no need for you to miss the committee debate. Even if you are not a member of the Committee, you could participate in these discussions as an interested Member. And all that you've just said could be there when it was second-guessed from article to article in the law. Now we don't have that. And I hope that after one four-year term you Members are able to understand what the provisions of the Rules of Procedure are. And the discussions that will thus go beyond the content and provisions of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure will not be tolerated. Now he has a procedural proposal from Natasha Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u96	President, I propose that you allow an argument as to why one of the Members or Members of Parliament supports or does not support the amendment tabled by the left-wing Group. After all, he is also the proposer – our group leader explained the intention of this amendment nicely. The intention is to discuss openly everything that is wrong and what is pointed out by a number of authorities – from the information officer to the Legal and Law Service and so on, what is wrong with this law, why these things should be reasoned in Parliament. If you don't believe me yourself, please read what the amendment says. And that must be argued. We cannot say now – yes, we support the amendment, or we do not support it. We must, as people who are elected, as Members and Members of Parliament, argue to the public that they will understand why we are so determined to inform them. And please, don't keep us quiet before we are silenced by this law, if this law is passed, as the opposition disturbing Members, who will obviously be prevented from coming to our door, breaking into our apartments, accusing us of anything and possibly putting us in jail. I ask that the debate, which is democratic, which must be democratic, be made possible. That we can argue why, not that what comes from outer space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u97	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. The first paragraph of Article 134 is the one on which we will hold this debate. Other provisions of the Rules of Procedure to this end have already been absorbed in the preliminary examinations of the draft law. I'm sure you all understand that. And it probably doesn't have to be explained specifically to the chairman that that's true, because that's how the procedure went. There's Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u98	Thank you, Chairman. I probably don't need to explain to you how some amendment is argued, because, as you know, the amendment has one sentence. Then, of course, there's an explanation for this amendment. And what I was doing was explaining why the delay in the enforcement of this law should be argued. But of course, you can argue this delay by stating all the mistakes of this law. And that's what I did. And there's no need for you to interrupt me again and again because I have this right. And as you know, we've got 30 minutes in the LMSA and we'll take advantage of them. Therefore, I respectfully ask you not to interrupt the debaters who state what is wrong with this law. Because everything is wrong with this marriage. And this law is harmful, and this law takes us citizens to dictatorship. And this marriage was invented by you in the coalition. And we strongly oppose him in the LMŠ. Simpel.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u99	Look, I don't mind if you object to the law. But at this stage of the debate, you should focus on what is related to the amendment tabled. What was in the rest of the articles could save everyone on the board. If you couldn't, it wasn't my fault. [[advertising from the hall]] You can, you'll get it. I suggest you focus so you can argue these things. I hope you know them. Procedurally, Robert Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u100	What you have now enjoyed, Mr Tanko, as chairman, goes beyond all the limits of decency, what anyone is capable of and who is incapable of anything. Let's go along with the rules you set out yourself. The first paragraph of Article 134 and the proposed amendment of the Left, which reads: “The text of Article 194 shall be amended to read: This Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2030.” And then there is the explanation: “The amendment is intended to delay or possibly prevent the adopted harmful law which, according to the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Information Commissioners, contains provisions which are not in conformity with the Constitution.” Is the explanation part of the amendment because what you are now saying means that the explanation is not part of the amendment. And everything that the colleague said is completely about what the amendment explains. And your substantive interference with the debate is unacceptable and is against the Rules of Procedure, even though you cited it. I don't know why there's always trouble when you're in charge of the session. But if your opinion is that the explanation of the amendment is not part of the amendment, then I apologize to you in advance, but we both know that's not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Apology accepted. Lydia Divac Mirnik, procedural proposal? You won't. Then we shall proceed with the debate. The word is Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. It is unacceptable for both our party and our country, Dr. Aleksandre Pivec, that the proposed amendment on the basis of the proposed amendment of the Left will not enter into force until 2030, so I will certainly not support the proposed amendment. The proposed solutions in Chapter 6, which describe the Office's tasks and competences and some other solutions relating to the collection and processing of personal data in the amendment of the law, in fact indicate a tendency to establish a super office. According to its content, the Office of State should also have its mandate in this case, which in essence exceeds all the powers of the Police and other law enforcement authorities together in this area. The police can only carry out their covert investigations against the individual on the basis of a court order and only in the case of a reasonable suspicion of the service of a worse act; the powers of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering regarding the processing of personal data and private interventions will thus be unlimited. Thus, without adequate safeguards to prevent abuses and to protect the rights of individuals in their actions, the powers of all other State authorities could be exceeded. The Office, which is part of the executive branch of the Authority, should be responsible for the sole responsibility of the Ministry and the Government. However, the Office could also transmit the data obtained to other authorities, but only to those designated by the troika of ministries — finance, internal affairs and the Ministry of Justice — without any criteria. However, the proposal for a law is even so far away that the Bureau can even refuse to provide information to the courts, the state prosecutor and the police. This, for my knowledge, belief and understanding of the rule of law, goes beyond all limits. As I have already said, personally and also as a member of our country's party, I do not support the proposed amendments to the law because they go far beyond the provisions of the Directives of the European Union, which need to be implemented in our legal order in this area, and because the proposed solutions undermine the hierarchy of the functioning of the internal legal order. The solutions are also contrary to constitutional principles, the proportionality of State and individual measures do not provide reliable legal protection in this area. The issue of legal regulation of the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing is very topical, mainly due to the implementation of European Union directives in this area. As part of these activities, today's novelties of the law have also been sent to public hearing. The novelty also received relevant comments from competent and competent entities or stakeholders, which unfortunately were not heard and taken into account at later stages of the procedure. The legislative and legal service has also had observations in a very large number of areas, and therefore the amendment of the Left and the proposed amendment of the law alone cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Andre Zabret has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. I am glad that we have cleared up the debate on the amendment itself. I will personally support this amendment, because, if it is not different, it is only right that at least the law in implementation be transferred to 2030. Indeed, this law is completely harmful to all people in Slovenia, including those who have proposed it. I do not understand this — either short - term or opportunism — because we all know that the stick has two ends. I don't know if you're so sure that you'll be in the next government, that you can't happen, that maybe someone else will, that this law actually applies to everyone – the left and the right. [[…]] It's really hard to understand that this is about opportunism and some kind of vendetta. It's a whole new marriage. It's not a new marriage. This law covers more than 150 pages, or with all additional regulations and regulations of even 202 pages, and this has been submitted by the Government, without public consideration, to the National Assembly, so that we have already heard very relevant and disturbing comments on the Finance Committee, in particular by the Information Commissioners, who points out that this is an unlimited matter and goes beyond all the powers that this Office will receive. The point is that without a court order, the inspectors will be able to knock on our apartment, on our door, and we will have to open our doors, and they will be able to review our documentation, walk around our premises – and nothing will happen, but they will be able to investigate and we will not be able to do anything at all. Come in. The Minister will be able to make his own decisions subjectively to whom he will look and to whom he does not look, says the one who will be in the current government, we know which ministers they are today, that is Minister Dikaucič, Minister of Shircelj and Minister Hojs, will decide subjectively who will be reviewed and who will not. The Office will also be able to decide on its own whether the required data will be required by the Police, the Court or the Prosecutor's Office, whether or not it will be able to refuse. This is a series of worrying things that this law deals with, which is pointed out by several institutions, as I have already mentioned, by an information officer, not to mention the Law-Legal Service, which says that all substantive matters have not been taken into account by the proposer and that this is actually an unconstitutional law. I also hope that this law, even if adopted tomorrow at the meeting, will go to constitutional review and the Constitutional Court will judge the facts. And I hope that it will judge, as the information officer has already said, that this is a series of non-constitutional articles. And it is worrying, in fact, that I also have to mention what is happening in the media. This has already been exposed to the Committee on Finance itself. Today, it is not intended for the Secretary of State to respond to this, but only as an insight, that is, moving all the archival material to the Ministry of Finance, probably for a certain purpose, I can only imagine. There's a room at the office with a T-code that can only be entered by certain elected people of the director himself. Above all, it is also worrying why the Office has just started — a large number of anonymouss appearing at the Office — and the Office has also begun, unlike usual, to investigate these anonymous statements intensively. But we do know what it means if the Office receives an anonymous application that it actually can or allows manipulation. In fact, when the Office formally opens the procedure after an anonymous application, its staff may only access the records of the Police, Furs and other authorities by the number of the case, without great difficulty. And we know that this office will also have unlimited access to all of our data, whether it needs them or not, to health care, as long as we have working hours, to virtually all the data. And what's even more worrying in the end is that we won't even know that we won't even know it, and we won't even know how long that data is going to be stored. As has been said many times today, this law is harmful. Yes, and one more thing I remembered, let's say what else they stipulated in the law itself, that banks, savings banks and other payment institutions would have to report all cash and non-cash transactions to the Office over 15,000 euros, all of us citizens who will be available, pay rent or buy a car, will have to report on any transactions over 15,000 euros, whether it's money laundering or terrorist financing criteria and whether it's a risky transaction or not. And it sounded at the beginning of the State Secretary's explanation, in explanation of the government, or it was said by one of the discussers that I will not now be, in fact, a very small change from the previous law. [[…]] I think it's a very big change. You're cheering at the Personal Data Protection Regulation. Human rights to the protection of personal data will be fully violated, so that there are so many arguments that this law cannot be adopted; or if it is accepted that it must be considered constitutionally that there is no question at all. I can't support this law personally either.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm starting the application procedure. The application shall be made. First he gets the word Predrag Baković.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. I will discuss the amendment of the Left, which amends Article 194, which states that the law shall enter into force on the 30th day following its publication in the Official Journal and the amendment provides that the law shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication. 1. 2030; of course, there is also an explanation which has already been highlighted by colleague Pavšč. I also believe that it is necessary to explain why this amendment seems important to me, because it is the only lever with which this law, which is problematic, raises serious concerns for both the legal profession and the information authorities and for others, would not be valid until the matter is clarified. The Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism speaks of two things: money laundering and terrorism. These are the offences set out in the Penal Code. The Penal Code is a web or a set of acts that are illegal and have been assessed by the State as being extremely harmful and have prescribed penalties. Of course, it also prescribed a procedure whereby these crimes are then identified. This law is called the Criminal Procedure Act, if an offence is committed, is done under the Offences Act. And any new law, any new novelty or new law, which defines some new powers to certain bodies, organisations or anyone else already and then gives some new possibilities for investigation, introduces into our positive legislation inconsistencies, intransigence and, finally, the possibility of misuse of the rules of every policy. The Criminal Procedure Act lays down the rules, rights, duties of investigators and investigators. And if we see how this is done in the Criminal Procedure Act, let's say a simple house investigation where there is a higher level of suspicion, i.e. reasonable grounds for suspicion, must at the same time be given the likelihood that certain cases will be found, and the court will decide. And only on the basis of this court decision or orders, as it is called, can anyone enter the apartment. On the other hand, we now have a law; I am aware, and I know, that even in the previous Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, these authorities, the Office's inspectors, have had certain powers, I understand that, but nevertheless – the Law and Law Service also warns – there is a problem to be addressed. On the one hand, the police, if they want to investigate a personal car in which the drugs are located, need what I have said – they need reasonable grounds for suspicion, they need a court order, they need two witnesses, and, finally, the owner must have a right to a lawyer, a presence and so on. On the other hand, we have the possibility, or provision in this law, that an inspector for the prevention of money laundering may “enter and inspect premises, land and means of transport (‘the premises’) in the seat of the debtors and elsewhere”. That's problematic. I cannot imagine how the court, on the basis of a crime of money laundering or terrorist financing, will punish a crime, i.e. from these two areas, which will be based on the findings of an inspector who entered a private area of a natural person without an order, has examined it, obtained evidence. Will it go through? It won't go through, Your Honor. Therefore, the implementation of this law in 2030, in fact, this manoeuvre by the opposition, specifically the Left, gave no account of this law, because these are serious crimes. Money laundering and terrorism are serious and serious crimes. And we can't afford to have a person who is justifiably suspected of the crime of terrorism in the process, so that we can release a person out of jail because of such procedural matters that would fall. Yes, because today it was also said in the opinions about Farrokh cases and money laundering. And in this case, we must not allow the fundamentals of democracy and the legal protection of anyone to fall. And that is why this amendment prepared by the Left is extremely important and, in fact, the only possibility that this matter will not go through. Of course, it is possible then to have a constitutional judgment and so on and so forth, but we need to think in this direction. I will not imply that it is the policy that or the policy that is trying to mislead this legislation in this way in order to be able to abuse this data, I will not, I will not personally expose it. But it is enough already to give me some powers that should be exclusively regulated in some procedural law, that is, in the Criminal Procedure Act, we give into another law, and thus, of course, we allow for the possibility and abuse and impreciseness and inaccuracies and inaccuracies and I do not know anything else. If we remember, even in the government of Marjana Sarca, when we were trying to amend the Law on Criminal Procedure with the legalization of IMSI hunters and also with legalization, not with legalization – but by regulating that in extreme cases a house investigation may be carried out even without the owner's presence, and we would have an order, we would have two witnesses, we would have a lawyer, but the owner is simply not present, but it is urgent because there is a drug, because it is explosive, whatever it is; it did not go through. Dear colleagues, who are now in the coalition and who are also somehow in favour of this law, you said at that time that it was unacceptable that the house investigation was being carried out without the owner, no matter what happened, and you even demanded a constitutional review. And that, of course, points to that, I'll tell you at home how long the minute is, depending on which side of the toilet door you're on. We understand. But here we must be aware that this is a serious change, that it is a situation that could be problematic, or that anyone can, I will not speak – the current government, whoever can take advantage of it for some other purpose. And as soon as we leave room for manoeuvre to think about it or to discuss it, of course, one day it may also be possible for someone to take advantage of it. And that's all that really needs to be kept in focus. All right, if this law were adopted and we get evidence, irrefutable evidence that someone has committed a crime that has elements of terrorism, or a crime in money laundering, is based on findings and powers in this law, procedurally, I tell you that it will not last. And in the end we will release him and we will have a new Balkan warrior, a new story, a new affair. And in the end, we're the legislators here, all of us sitting here, and we're gonna push it anyway, responsible for it. And normally, people will say -- look, you don't know what you're doing, you really don't know what you're doing, once, again. Therefore, these changes are extremely problematic. And I really lay on everyone's hearts that we are very careful to adopt this law in such a form. That is why, of course, I support the amendment made by the Left, which in fact prolongs or enters into force only 1. 1. 2030. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Well, let me get this straight. Of course, the intention is quite clear why we tabled this amendment in order to bring this law into force as of 1 January 2030. For the amendment is intended to delay or possibly prevent the adoption of this catastrophic law, which, according to the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Information Commissioners, contains provisions which do not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, are simply not. Nor are they in line with the General Data Protection Regulation and the rules on the protection of personal data. The Information Officer has explicitly pointed out that the powers of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism as the central authority responsible for the implementation of the law on the processing of personal data and on the processing of personal data and on the protection of the rights of individuals in the proceedings of the Office have been laid down in such a manner that they exceed the powers of all other national authorities without any appropriate or no safeguards whatsoever and do not contain safeguards for the protection of the rights of individuals in the proceedings of the Office and so on. The Office, as part of the executive branch of the Authority, would then report to the only Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not even to the National Assembly at all, and it could be considered that it would even reject the transmission of data to the Court, the State Prosecutor's Office and the Police. And we've explained all this very clearly before why this is all so problematic. Now, hypothetically, I say to you, imagine that you would suggest that the law enter into force on 1 June 2022. This marriage of yours. That's exactly your law. I imagine that at that time a new government will be formed, for which I hope or most likely it will not be as it is now. Imagine, colleague Ušaj or colleague Tanko, that this law will enter into force, your law, with June 1st, and that this new government will begin to use it, to abuse it in the way that this law allows. And one day, people ring the doorbells, they step inside on the basis of an anonymity that I gave to you or you, they step inside, they start to search your computer and on the phone without any court order. How would you feel? What do you think? Well, that's the law you're proposing. This law will apply both to me and to you, but it will only matter who's in power right now. Is that what we want, or is that what one of us wants? I don't think so. I think you're still in a saddle right now and you think this marriage is great because no one's going to hurt your hair. But things can turn around soon. April 24th is the date when the elections will be held, and then the cards will be re-mixed. And imagine, this is the law you are proposing, it concerns all of us — you, me, anyone. And that is why I think it is right for all of you to vote or withdraw this law or vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Joseph Horvath, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, representative of the Office, colleague and colleague! We're back on an amendment that's just not serious. He's probably being put into some kind of debate. If this amendment were to be adopted and also by law with this amendment, this would mean that this law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, i.e. the new law, has been blocked in some way, frozen for 8 years, until 2030. That's one. Ladies and gentlemen, even in the media, it is a sin to give the inspector too much authority. This is actually a crucial problem, as far as I understand the debate by the KUL. I made a computer comparison of the text of the law, now valid here, in this house in 2016, that article that speaks of the inspector's powers, Article 146. We now have a new law and an article that discusses the inspector’s powers — Article 159. You won't believe it. The computer says it's a copy paste. Well, if I'm very precise, the computer says that in the second paragraph, the word “anything” in the new law is replaced by “anything”. Yes, you can take a look at this, and in paragraph 6 “except insofar as” it says in the law in force and here it says “except if”. These are all changes detected by the computer, ladies and gentlemen, a precise mathematical comparison of the law that you have adopted in 2016. And now you're saying this article isn't good. He was good back then, and now he's not good. So much for the seriousness and the spin of some solutions that I don't know how terrible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I see you're not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided on Wednesday, 2 February 2022 in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is a second defensive proposal for a sanction law in the past of the deprived environment in the area of the locality of the whole in the cellular boiler within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 35 Members and Members with the first signed Janjo Slug. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body at its 35th meeting on 12 January 2022. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. First of all, the Group of Members of the Party Alenka Bratušek and Mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u112	Mr Vice President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! With the proposal for a law on rehabilitation in the past of the polluted environment in the area of the Municipality of Celje in the Celje Caolin, we also wanted to contribute to the more active start of environmental recovery and related activities in the SAB Group. We hoped that, following the adoption of the proposal, similar activities would also take place in other areas where past pollutions claimed their tax. The rehabilitation of degraded areas in Slovenia in general is considered to be too slow. In this light, we hoped to adopt a law that would mean a certain incentive and a breakthrough. Unfortunately, the proposal on the parental committee did not receive sufficient support. Unfortunately, because we believe that people in the district of the City of Celje, whom the law refers to, would deserve the law. As the inhabitants of Škofje village, Arclina, Vojnika, Žalac deserve it, and in general all the places on the 20km radio from the zinc factory. We can therefore be happy to live in a country that can generally boast of a clean environment and good living conditions. But we must be aware that there are many things that are entirely self-evident for the inhabitants of certain areas, and for many others there is no luxury. The areas and inhabitants to which this applies are few. The problem is not only the currently functioning plants but the fact that the old burdens have not been effectively recovered is problematic. Old burdens are related to the consequences of long-standing mining, metallurgical, chemical or other industrial activities. It is true that places and cities have grown and recorded more jobs on this account, but we must also acknowledge that these activities and heavy industries have benefited the whole country and that only these places and their inhabitants, including children, have long since been born at the time of those industries. For example, a large part of the population is self - centered to play carefreely on kindergarten grounds. But that's not exactly the case with Cel. Children play on surfaces whose soil has been proven to record large surpluses of critical heavy metals, specifically cadmium, lead and arsenic. The recovery procedures for these areas are particularly important and are currently under way, but the scale and speed would apply precisely because of the health of the most vulnerable child population. We estimate that the country is fleeing from the responsibility it has — like the congregation itself — that it has. The responsible policy should address the problems in substance, without pointing a finger; however, taking into account logically the fact that the main source of pollution is known and, above all, with a clear objective of finding solutions for people. The representatives of the Ministry of the Environment explained at the meeting of the home committee why they did not support the law and, inter alia, stated that a systematic approach should be made to addressing the problem of the rehabilitation of degraded areas, with clear final objectives, methodologies and procedures. So we can easily agree with them. But the fact is, in the 1930s, no government has established a system of regulation. In the case of truly partial solutions, it is understandable to resort to the need for systemic regulation on a case-by-case basis, and in a specific case we only consider it as an excuse. The effects of excessive environmental burdens and pollution accumulate while awaiting system regulation and consequently the system regime remains even more distant. The vicious circle is thus concluded, and it would be time for us to break it. I also stressed at the Committee's meeting that in the event that all data on soil and atmosphere toxicity are known and that we know what measures are needed to neutralize them, there is no reason for them to remain inactive. Financially, too, it is not a large amount to look at in the light of debt and spending over the last two years. People across Slovenia with children at the head, living in polluted areas, deserve solutions. Let's hope they get them from the Ministry in the next lineup.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Ivan Hršak. There's no MP, so let's move on. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u114	Good day to you all! The steel boiler is polluted mainly by Cinkarna Celje, which has polluted the environment since before Slovenia's independence. This has been pointed out by various organisations for at least the last 30 years, and nothing has happened. The pollution of air and land is so great that it affects the health of all citizens of Celje, especially children. The bill, tabled by the proposer, came to the table as her pre-election move to win the vote of the Celjans, and this is by no means a wish to improve the actual situation. If the applicant wished to improve the situation, she could duly introduce the law at the beginning of her first term. I say it properly because her first attempt was only part of the problem. At the time, in the first half of this mandate, when it was on the side of the rulings, it did nothing to reduce pollution in the broader context and did not raise problems with the pollution of the Celje Valley. Just a few months before the elections, the motioner's introduction of the law indicates that it is only about raising political points before the elections. The law is clearly ready to raise political points, as the proposed solution would not help solve the problem. Some claims are also misleading and do not talk about the actual situation. However, some problematic matters were not covered by the law. No wonder the law wasn't already supported on the board.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u116	In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we regret that in more than eight hours of debate, which apparently continues in these positions, it has once again shown that the coalition Members are more concerned with the political measurement of power than with the constitutional right of people to live in a healthy environment. The bill was rejected without any substantive arguments. I expected, however, that we could overcome political divisions on such an important topic. The environmental recovery of the old burdens of the Celje Valley is placed in the coalition contract of the current government. Not to mention, she was part of the SMC electoral program. So what is the message of this ruling coalition? That coalition treaties and political programmes do not matter that this coalition divides people into first-class and second-class ones. This year, the 15-year rehabilitation of the Upper Mežičska Valley has expired, but there has been a need to continue the implementation of the measures. And the Celians, like the Mezians, have the right to live in an environment that does not endanger their health and, above all, does not endanger the health of their children. The first soil analyses in the Celje Cauldron were made in 1987 by Prof. Dr. Franz Lobnik, professor of pedology and use and soil protection at the Faculty of Biotechnical Engineering of the University of Ljubljana and a member of the SAZU, who was also involved in the meeting of the parent working body and gave appropriate explanations. Then 35 years, nothing happened. Until 2012, when Dr. Ribarič Lasnikov did her pioneering work in this area by preparing a targeted research project Pollution of the environment and natural resources as a limiting factor for development in Slovenia – a model approach for degraded areas in the Celje Valley. Dr. Lasnikov is also one of the co-authors of this bill and has decided to cooperate with us because, to quote, “We all knew that the environment was at risk, especially human health, and we all waited because heavy metals didn’t hurt, they didn’t burn and we didn’t taste them, but they hurt us.” The bill you rejected is not just my own, it's not just the opposition law. It is also the law of the citizens' initiatives Celje, also the law of the civil initiative for Voglajna, namely Mr Boris Šuštar and Mr Tomaž Koren. In a written response, Mr Šuštar told us: “All voters, both right and left, breathe highly polluting air in Celje and around at least a hundred days a year. The unscanned area of old Cincarna by dusting further endangers the air that we breathe and the leaching destroys the groundwater. In a few years, the law would at least provide us with a constitutional right to a healthy environment.” This is also the law of parents of kindergarten children from Celje, who wrote in a letter of support: “The problem of pollution with heavy metals in the country is not new, but unfortunately for many years many parents in Celje have not learned the seriousness of the situation since we did not have objective information on the impact on the health of our children. We want this problem to remain the priority of the competent ministries and the state. We therefore support the efforts of Ambassador Janja Slug so far and that all activities, including preventive programmes for early detection of risks to the health and development of children, are included in the law on the rehabilitation of the Celje Valley." This is also the law of Prof. Dr. Dusan Pluto, is the law of the Mag. Tomaža Ogrina and is also the last law of the former Minister for the Environment and Space of Juret Lebna, who, at my initiative, started the rehabilitation of the cell kindergartens and who supported the law on the working body with the following message: "If we decided today to go to a systematic resolution of the rehabilitation of degraded environments in Slovenia, we will need 2, 3, even 4 years to collect only the input data and for Celje we already have them." Although the parliamentary path of this proposal is being concluded, not my long-standing efforts to environmental recovery of the Celje Valley, you can be sure of that.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Janez Moskrič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u118	Nice greetings to all present! Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, at least in 1846 there are reasons for discussing the proposed law. This is the year of the opening of the Gradec-Celje railway line when the first train took over the Slovenian soil. The time of rapid technical progress had unfathomable consequences. In the eyes of the then society, mankind’s prosperity and salvation have had consequences for a number of future generations. The strong increase in productivity, the strong increase in the use of natural wealth and technological progress according to the new elements resulted in the opening of the zinc plant in 1873 in Celje. Developments and products that enabled jobs have resulted in customers having products that have been treated for at least three to four decades as hazardous wastes for human health, animals and all living and inanimate nature. The greatest pollution occurred in the 1960 ’ s. As the main source of pollution in several places across Slovenia, the challenge industry is mentioned, but we must not neglect the way people live, especially in terms of energy use. The sale of coal in the Celje Valley area was 45 000 tonnes per year in 1988. In 1995, less than 4,000 tons. As was the independence of the social divide, it was also economically and ecologically. Intensive awareness of the inhabitants, particularly representatives of local communities and state institutions, of the presence of dangerous elements for human health, such as heavy metal zinc, lead, cadmium, dust particles, has become a constant of all experts. The concern for human health must also be one of the main points of the 21st century’s political decision-makers. Have we done enough in these decades, too little? This will be an eternal dilemma. Existing legislation requires careful environmental management as well as sanctioning those responsible for pollution. The measurements of the quantities of lead and cadmium and zinc in the dust deposits in the Celje area already show encouraging results in 2004 and therefore the city of Celje is not poisoned, as stated by the proposer. Ecology must not become political populism. Real efforts bear fruit. The land exchange project in more than 10 kindergartens proves that the ecological recovery process is a long-term process requiring significant resources. The process must be closely linked to the future development of the local community. The reintroduction of the law seems to be a populism measure first signed by Janja Slug. The introduction of a complex law, implementing, technically and financially inconsequential, just before the end of the term of office, and the second time, regardless of political orientation and affiliation, does not bear fruit. The government, led by Janez Janša, has carefully taken over the completion of the land-replacement project in kindergarten areas, providing funds for the completion of the 3 million-euro project. This is also an example of how the initial time target has increased more than once. The efforts of the current governments are building on the whole need of local communities and a number of projects have been approved during this government to improve the quality of life in the Celje Cauldron. EUR 630 million are regular projects in the area of the Municipality of Celje. The already mentioned rehabilitation of kindergartens, flood safety projects, Medlog embankment – EUR 3 million 113 000, Savinja flood safety – EUR 2 million 865 000, municipal wastewater treatment, and the EU project of EUR 4 million 717 000. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that Celje is not poisoned by a city where it is not possible to create conditions for a safe life. On the contrary, all measures are aimed at sustainable development, the safe stay of the population and economic development. This opinion was advocated by all responsible governments, and the current government was also able to implement a wide range of projects. Eco-awareness is the responsibility of each individual, and this is the only way to transfer it to society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Robert Pavšič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u120	Thank you. We're going to blow two flies off with one moss, and we're going to take a stand for it, and we're going to take the next point of the agenda. During the previous plenary session to date, we met twice on very important topics, this is the environment, on the Infrastructure Committee. We discussed the proposal for a law on rehabilitation in the past of the polluted environment in the area of the City Municipality of Celje in the Celje Cauldron and the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act. Both laws fell under the first treatment. They are not suitable for further consideration, so the majority of the members and members of these committees have decided. Of course, there were many of us against that decision, but in the end mathematics did its part. All of us who have participated in these two committees have been able to monitor a marked lack of arguments and we are obviously all living together in two very different worlds. Since the proposal to rehabilitate Celje for 20 million euros was a worthwhile project, it is indeed a small thing against what we have heard in front of me. As far as fracking in Petišovci is concerned, some direct financial impact on our country would not have this; it would have huge effects on the people who live there. The arguments were not substantiated. There was only one excuse, and it was on the government side, and this is a constant repetition of non-systemicity. I don't know how a systemic solution to the issue of Celia's rehabilitation should be handled. It's one area, one city. This could be a case-by-case case, we could show how good practice is being established for the rehabilitation of similar areas across Slovenia. Remember, we don't only have Celje, we have Anhovo, we have Zagorje, Hrastnik, Trbovlje, and finally Poček. But no, systemicity is a question, but in this system of things we don't see systemicity, we see the desire to change this country at the request of only one. The environment doesn't have a price, health doesn't have a price, it's really cheap populism, but apparently it does. Unfortunately, we do not pay it with euro from the budget, but it is paid by those living in these areas, at a much higher price, and you are looking for systemic solutions. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Željka Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u122	Chairman, thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Living in a healthy environment is a fundamental constitutional right in Slovenia, but in many cases it is not guaranteed, on the contrary, it is violated. While Slovenia still provides a healthy living environment compared to other countries, there are areas in our country that are environmentally severely degraded, burdened with pollution, hazardous waste both in water, land and air. Celje and Celje Cauldron are proven to be an environment affected by pollution and the debt of heavy industry based on the results of expert analyses from the years 1987. Critical limit values of cancerous substances that endanger and prevent health, carcinogenic substances that kill with cancer, are exceeded in the soil. Baker is exceeded in Celje 842 times, zinc 250 times, arsenic 131 times, lead 84 times, cadmium 50 times, antimony 24 times. This pollution is suffered by children, old people, all the inhabitants of this environment. At 17 hectares of the old Cincarna area, where up to 9 meters of depth is 1.5 million cubic metres of very dangerous waste, pollution is a hundred times worse than what I said before. Nowhere in Europe, colleagues and colleagues, is such an ecologically polluted area in the middle of an urban centre as Celje, and old Cincarna is located 200 meters from the bus station and 500 meters from the hospital, residential blocks, kindergartens, schools. 1200 milligrams per kilogram of cadmium was analysed in one of the samples, while in the natural environment it was 0.2 to 0.4 micrograms per kilogram. And watch out, I note that the last analysis of the Health Care Institute Celje from 2013 – where it has already been – concluded: “At the same time, we note that it is necessary to approach the problem of pollution of the entire area of old Cincarna immediately, in its entirety.” And once again, the bill, which unfortunately stopped, points out. And this is the Celje area, which is called by experts in Slovenia Chernobyl. Cincarne contaminated dust contributes to dust particulate emissions of both PM10 and PM2.5. And the documents obtained by the European Commission point out that there are between 150 and 200 tonnes of emissions of PM10 carcinogen dust particles and 25 to 40 tonnes of much more dangerous PM2.5 particles per year in Celje. And under these conditions, children and the inhabitants of Celje have been waiting for a systemic solution since 1987. How many have not experienced this systemic solution? And nothing has been done so far by the current authorities or competent authorities to protect the population from being dusted from this environment and to prevent the terrible pollution of groundwater. Why subterfuge? Since one of the analyses of groundwater samples showed as much as 120,000 micrograms of zinc per litre of this groundwater, the government in Slovenia should have reacted already if this pollution was 800 microgram per litre. And analyzed dust in attics in Celje contains 100 times more cadmium and 50 times more carcinogen postulates, such as the Slovenian average. Cynically, but this attic powder is marked as quality zinc ore due to its high zinc content. With all clearly established data from the 1980s and the regular blood tax paid by the Celjani, constitutional and statutoryly ordered action does not occur in Slovenia. People should simply die or pay for the high, more than ten million annual profits of Cincarna Celje, which the country is depriving. What a small amount it would take to realize this law. The proposal for a law on rehabilitation in the past of the polluted environment in the area of the Municipality of Celje has already been introduced into the legislative procedure in the previous mandate, unfortunately its adoption has not been successful despite the blood tax and the life that the Celjans pay for it. I must say that in the Group of Social Democrats, the legal objectives and solutions have also been recognized as good and legal proposals signed by all Social Democrats. This law was also upheld on the part of the mother’s working body. And it wasn't just the Social Democrats that some of the other parliamentary groups supported this, but mainly experts and civil initiatives. And for the Social Democrats, it is high time that the country systematically and actively approaches to solving environmental pollution and space across Slovenia, because, as already said, it is not just the Celia Cauldron that carries the burden of the past and the heavy industries. How long will human life have to wait for a systemic solution? They've been waiting since 1987. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! At the meeting, the Infrastructure Committee unfortunately rejected the proposal for a law on the rehabilitation of the Celje Valley, which was tabled by unrelated Member Janja Slug for parliamentary consideration. The bill collapsed the coalition in the first step, even though it is clear that Celje is the third largest Slovenian city with almost 40,000 inhabitants built on land that is full of dangerous remnants of heavy industry. In an area where even shovels would not be planted today, there are settlements and kindergartens with their playgrounds and vegetable gardens. Celje authorities, the environment ministry and health institutions – everyone knows how poisoned the Celje boiler is, but really nobody, even though people in Celje are more likely to get sick and die after cancer, as evidenced by the cancer register, which is significantly higher in Celje than elsewhere in Slovenia, if we take away a few more black points such as Anhovo, Jesenice, Idrija, Zasavje. Consider the example of the Titanium orchard landfill in Proseniškem, where about 5 million tonnes of titanium seed lie, and today they are dumping dangerous waste from the new Cinkarna, which places in the environment products that are burdening the environment. In particular, contaminated dust is problematic. Systematic control of the earth, groundwater, and air is not yet available, although the profession always warns that as soon as possible recovery is necessary. I quote: »Contamination of agricultural and urban land remains a permanent problem. Also remains the unscanned industrial area of old Cincarna. The specialties in the Celje Cauldron pose the greatest threat to public health, which calls for a quick and integrated solution and the immediate adoption of remedial measures is a priority for the country and the local community.” This is the case with the applicant, who is aware that the pollution situation of the Celia Valley is so critical that immediate action is required. That is why this law should be adopted, and we therefore agree more than we do in Levica. However, we cannot go beyond the fact that the awareness that immediate action is needed is not from yesterday. The law lists research and articles that confirm the pollution of the Celia Valley. These are from 1999, 2002, 2006, 2012 and 2017. Already in the mandate of the Cerara government, Janja Sluga knew that the immediate adoption of remedial measures was a priority of the state and the local community, but the law on the rehabilitation of the Celje Valley passed just before the elections when it could no longer be adopted. At that time, due to the inadequacy of the adoption of the law just before the elections, its coalition partners SD and Desus and NSI, which supported the proposal for a law at first reading, were obstructed. Only the Left and the SMC supported and remained in the defense of the marriage. Surprisingly, the proposaler was a coalition member forward in the government of Marjana Sarca, where her client even had an environment minister, first Lebna, then Zajc; and the rehabilitation of the Celje Valley did not come on the government's agenda. As the government changed in March 2020, it continued to be a coalition member in the new government and again nothing. Only after leaving the SMC and then from the parliamentary group did the proposer finally reinstate the bill on the rehabilitation of the Celje Valley. In the meantime, the law was withdrawn and supplemented, which is very good, but this law, as has already been seen, unfortunately came into consideration just before the elections and burned again. This is also why we did not want to sign in Levica under the law that we have, which we will continue to support, because the solutions in it are good. In short, from the mandate to the mandate, just before the end of a four-year-old, we are considering a law that is not adopted in any way, and people in the Celje Valley continue to breathe poisoned air, continue to eat poisoned vegetables, continue to get sick and die of cancer more often than elsewhere, and children continue to play on the deadly contaminated soil of children's playgrounds. Let's ask ourselves how long it's been like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Mihael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on rehabilitation in the past of the polluted environment in the area of the Municipality of Celje in the Celje basin contains remedial measures for the area of old Cinkarna Celje and individual parts of the environment or soil in the wider area of the Municipality of Celje, which are so contaminated with heavy metals that it harms human health. In Novi Slovenija we believe that unfortunately the proposal only partially solves the problem of contaminated areas in the Celje boiler because of its long industrial activity and focuses only on the area of old Cinkarna and some other areas in the Municipality of Celje, but also does not include contaminated areas in the surrounding municipalities, such as Storé and Šentjur. It also goes on to regulate the remediation of contaminated areas by law to derogate from the Environmental Protection Act, which authorizes the Government to define a part of the environment or a specific area by regulation as a degraded environment. In this way, the Government has already adopted a decree on areas of maximum environmental burden and on a programme of measures to improve the quality of the environment in the Upper Mežiški valley. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly is also of the opinion that the necessary systemic legal basis for the rehabilitation of the Celje Valley can be reasonably included in the Proposal for a Law on Environmental Protection 2 (COD-2), which, as we know, starts the parliamentary procedure on Thursday. Therefore, in New Slovenia, the adoption of such a law, and only for part of the wider polluted area, does not make sense, as the proposal does not take into account already implemented measures and activities in implementation. It is not negligible that in 2019 the Ministry of Environment and Space joined the rehabilitation of ground kindergartens in the Municipality of Celje. By the end of this year, the rehabilitation of the land had already been carried out in four kindergartens in the City of Celje. However, the areas in the Celje basin, contaminated with heavy metals, need to be repaired as soon as possible. We need to protect and preserve the environment for the younger generations and the future. Respectful treatment of our environment, fertile soil, drinking water, animal life, and variety of species is our goal. Protecting the environment, animals, species and resources is our common task that each individual must undertake. Let us safeguard the natural habitat and preserve it for our offspring. It's our shared responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 8. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 39 Members and Members with the first signed by Nataša Sukić. On 19 January 2022, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space considered the draft law as the working body of the mother at the 1st meeting below. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. Representatives of the parliamentary groups shall have the floor to present their views. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u128	Your Honor! In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that many words have already been said about this burning subject even in this temple of democracy, but unfortunately not enough acts in practice. Those who feel that there is a safe cracking are certainly deeply wrong. Certainly the fact is that fracking or hydraulic fracturing in the northeastern part of Slovenia is simply prohibited. We are absolutely in favour of finally preventing the plans of the British multinational to drill in the Prekmurje Petišovci in the municipality of Lendava. The government has only been talking about its proposal for amendments to the Mining Act, which is intended to prohibit only large-scale hydraulic fracturing. The law is really in place, but it is also written on the skin of foreigners, and we will not be able to support it in the Slovenian National Party. We from various parts of Slovenia, from a safe distance, have a very different view of the matter, and Prekmurians will have to live with it day after day if the infamous crackling does not stop. Do you even imagine the consequences that fracking can leave in their environment so we don't even lose words about environmental disaster?Oh, my God! People, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have the right to live in a healthy environment, to have clean drinking water. Scientific research also shows that fracking is harmful to the environment. It is up to us, Members and Members of Parliament, whether we will give priority to a foreign economic society, which, in our own words, revolves around us, or people who live with us and are already so remote. The Constitution commands us to protect the rights of our citizens and citizens, which we believe they deserve. It is more than palm that fracking poses an environmental and social risk, a risk, and it is also not consistent with greenhouse gas reductions. Many foreign countries around the world have banned fracking, so why shouldn't we? Hand to heart, fracking is not in the public interest of residents and residents of Prekmurje, nor citizens and citizens of Slovenia. In the Slovenian National Party, we do not know a man who would like any earthquakes, contaminated local water, air, land in the coming years. This enormous damage must be said “no”, we stand firm for it and always will be. We Slovenians have already screwed up too many times in our history when we were headlessly bowing down to the interests of foreign profitable capital. In short, if I take this together, in the Slovenian National Party we find that the ban on fracking in Slovenia is the only real saving plant we are defending, because we care about the protection of the environment and the people there, who will certainly show us gratitude.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Janez Moskrič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! The draft law provides that it is not possible to obtain a permit for mining rights for the use of hydrocarbons by injecting water with added additives under pressure. The proposed text allows for the injection of all other media. Deep drilling takes place in geological or geomechanical studies with flushing, which raises neutral particles and maintains the stability of the well. The proposal for a law in Article 2 provides for coordination with the provisions of the amendment to the current permit for research and mining rights for the exploitation of hydrocarbons. It is possible to amend concession acts if the conditions laid down in the Constitution are met. This condition is currently not met. The bill seeks to align existing licences with the provisions of the draft law. There are no such permits at the moment. The draft law does not provide for the harmonisation of existing licences. If the draft law were to seek such harmonisation, the law should adequately address the recovery of the concessionaire's funds, which would extend to their acquired rights. When adopting the proposed amendments, we reach out to the rights of concessionaires. The measure is contested because of the protection of the principle and respect for the law resulting from Article 2 of the Constitution and the principles of the rule of law. Our client's opinion is that the proposal for a law is not properly formulated and the financial consequences of the rights acquired are not taken into account. It is known that there is currently only one concession in Slovenia for the use of oil and natural gas. This concession also gives rise to a decision on exploitation and does not state that hydrocarbons are used to inject water or water with added chemical impurities under pressure. Such interventions are already limited by environmental legislation. Environmental consensus and environmental impacts should be obtained before any such intervention takes place. This, however, is mandatory for certain interventions due to size and scope. On the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, the proposal for a Mining Act was first signed by Natasha Sukić and is therefore not suitable for further consideration. The government has also promised a new comprehensive proposal of the Mining Act, which also deals with the management of mineral raw materials, namely the prohibition of large-scale hydraulic fracturing. The proposed amendment thus eliminates some systemic shortcomings of the current law. It simplifies and shortens certain procedures and regulates those that have been unclear. In this way, the procedures regulated by the amendment will be clearer and more transparent, and some will be considerably shorter.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u132	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Most in this National Assembly support the protection of Prekmurje, Pomurje and Slovenia. Most of us in this National Assembly, which has 47 votes, are the Social Democrats, the Party of the Left, the LMŠ, the Sab, the unrelated and the party of the SNS, that is 47 Members and Members, support the protection of Prekmur. And so in the first reading, we got enough votes. Because of the business abuse, because individual committees do not reflect the political relationship at the plenary session and because there is no capacity to be like at least the older parliaments that recognise this, the case of England, we have been stopped on the Committee on the Environment for the fifth time. And for the fifth time because of a minority in this National Assembly, represented by SDS, Nova Slovenija, More specifically and Desus, if they are called that which have a minority in this National Assembly, by the way, our law is also supported by both members of minorities, we have been stopped in the protection of Prekmur. Of course, we will not give up; we will persist — persevere and succeed. Unfortunately for us, there are no clear arguments available. We have proposed and demanded that the views of the countries that have already banned their experts, officials and officials be confronted with the views of our government, which claim not to have banned them. They didn't want to do that. What we are further concerned about is that the extension of the concession was a covert extension through a plant in one of the PKPs. The rulers kept saying – what you were trying to do, you 47 Members and Members, when the concession died this year and so on. And what did they do? It was extended secretly through the PKP. In the fact that someone has initiated a planned rumor in Prekmurje that 47 Members and Members wish to stop the exploitation of geothermals in Prekmurje, although the law banning fracking only speaks of hydrocarbons; this proves to us that there are indeed some other interests in the background that are not the interests of environmental protection, and in particular not protecting the inhabitants and inhabitants of Prekmurje, Pomurje and the whole of Slovenia. What do you do? Of course, if it comes to this at all, allow the expression, false mining law, mining by the Government, which should prohibit cracking by explicitly allowing it, we will also be invited by the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, or on its behalf by the Working Group on Monitoring and Awareness of the Risk of Environmental Pollution, to do what we, honourable Members and Members, have done. She sent us all these days a call to ban hydraulic fracturing in order to obtain natural gas or hydrocarbons. A call on three sides, a call where health workers state all dangers and demand what we also require – the application of a precautionary principle. Yes, you have left Prekmurje alone again, as we have done many times in the last hundred years, but in the end we have always succeeded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Good-bye! The government recently adopted its proposal for a mining law prohibiting hydraulic fracturing or fracturing at the evening letter meeting, but in doing so it has silenced the distinction between large and smaller fractions, while the first one is supposed to ban, still permits and apparently supports the second. What does that really mean? If we conclude that Janez Janša's government has been operating so far, it wants to legally prohibit fracking, which is in agreement with most of Prekmurje's and Slovenia's population, while at the same time allowing the British Ascent Resources Corporation to continue its use of gas in Petišovci, as well as the faction, a less extensive cracking, after the government's interpretation, because it is supposed to be a minor environmental intervention that is not supposed to cause environmental disaster and not have negative effects on the health of the population. After the government in PKP9 has planted or hidden a proposal to extend concessionaire contracts for a year and a half, which means that the Ascent Resources Corporation, which would have passed its concession this May, would have had sufficient time to get all the necessary consent and start cracking in Petišovci to obtain natural gas, with this last move the government shows its true face once again. The government does not care about the country, nor about the people and the environment, it is only interested in dirty business; and this despite the fact that more and more countries are being banned, including the UK, from where the Ascent Resources Corporation is coming. There's no safe fracking. All forms of fracking, regardless of scale, have a series of harmful effects. If something breaks down at a depth of 3,000 or more metres, the consequences are virtually impossible to recover, as the spilling of toxic substances pollutes groundwater and thus endangers the health of the local population. Fracking causes earthquakes and destroys ecosystems and biospheric areas, contaminates the air, and in hydraulic fracturing remains waste mud containing toxic ingredients such as barite, as well as hydrocarbons, radioactive substances and heavy metals. And last but not least, fracking also affects climate change. Methane emissions released during fracking contribute significantly to the warming of the atmosphere. The only way to permanently prevent fracking is to ban it. Therefore, in Levica, together with the KUL opposition, we have proposed for the fifth time a amendment to the Mining Act, which would permanently ban natural gas from cracking in Slovenia. On 25 November, the National Assembly, with 46 votes in favour, also with the support of Members of the SNS Group and both minority Members, and 41 against, decided that our proposal to ban fracking in Slovenia was suitable for further consideration. The proposal was also supported by the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development by the majority. Our proposal to ban fracking in Slovenia was then discussed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space of the National Assembly. In Levi, we expected members of the coalition parties SDS, NSI and the former SMC to hear the call of residents, environmentalists, opposition, demands of the municipality of Lendava to crack once and for all and to stop. We expected coalition Members and Members to be able to manage a handful of independent opinions and decide to protect the Premur environment and people from the corrupt and dirty industries. They didn't. By unfair representation in the competent body of the National Assembly and by the act of democracy, they cynically overpowered people with the clear majority will of the Members of the National Assembly, and remained deaf to the calls of the people of Prekmur, who will bear the consequences of the cracking, if or when anything breaks down. However, we promise the people of Prekmur – we will not give up. As a matter of fact, there's no safe fracking. It must be definitively and completely prohibited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Mihael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u136	Thanks again for saying that. The last five times we have been considering the opposition proposal of the Mining Act, we must constantly listen to how dangerous fracking is, and we are Members of the coalition, who do not support this proposal, presented as the greatest environmental and nature destroyers. Fracking certainly has a negative connotation, but a lot of people don't even know what that means. Experts in this area argue that the process of breaking sandstone layers is mistakenly equivalent to the hydraulic treatment of large scale shale shale, or cracking, carried out in the United States of America. Since these are hard geological structures with low gas content, a successful process requires large quantities of water with chemical impurities. On the contrary, geologic structures in Prekmurje are sandstones with poor permeability. This means that in order to pump gas, they need extremely small stimulation with small amounts of water, which has minimal environmental impact. In addition, chemical impurities have recently been replaced by natural materials. Several prominent Premur economists trusted us to oppose the proposed law because they were concerned that the implementation of geothermal gardens would be prevented by the adoption of the law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia recently sent a proposal to the National Assembly for a amendment to the Mining Act, which addresses the issue of so-called fracking in a more systematic and complex way. The government novel transfers the competences of operators for spatial planning at the local level from the Ministry of Mining to the Geological Survey of Slovenia. In addition, issues relating to the management of minimum raw materials are dealt with and the grounds for the extension of existing mining rights are laid down in specific cases, such as the large-scale acquisition areas in which exploitation takes place gradually across individual fields. The process of abandoning mineral exploitation is further regulated and the area of inspection and the established basis for more effective action by illegal mines is further regulated. The main solutions to the government novelty of the law, however, are the prohibition of large-scale hydraulic fracturing. The Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovec, who has prepared an integral novel of the Mining Act, points to another complex aspect that you left behind in the opposition proposal, namely the wells. For if we ban drilling, then also for possible other activities, especially geothermals and more difficult geological research, we simply no longer have room for manoeuvre. Of course, we also need to pay attention to the agreements concluded in the past and also to the fact that the case against the Republic of Slovenia is ongoing. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats for the above reasons, we have not supported the mining law on the mother body of the opposition novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u138	Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! A healthy environment, environmental protection and human security and their right to a clean environment will always be put first in the SAB Group. We are a social-liberal party with an highlighted social note and a commitment to the care of human beings and a healthy environment, and our efforts have always been appropriate. For example, it is true to highlight 2016 when the right to drinking water was enshrined in the Constitution on our initiative. We have presented our position on the proposal for a mining law in the parliamentary groups of the democratic opposition several times, at the same time as every passing of the law. This has already made our conviction clear enough: fracking must be prohibited. In any re-imposing of the law, this was not a matter of defiance or prejudication to the Government, but simply of insistence on legalizing a solution that could have a far-reaching impact on the population of northeastern Slovenia. The harmfulness of fracking technology recognizes an increasingly large part of Europe. It's not an assumption that it's harmful, it's a fact. Its effects are reflected in various environmental impacts. There is an increase in biseptic activity, possession, water pollution abroad, if I only mention some. In our view, the only appropriate solution related to the ban on fracking was the one proposed by the opposition, and this is a complete ban on fracking. The solution proposed by the Ministry in its version of the law is, in our view, questionable. We do not agree that the ban on large-scale hydraulic fracturing will already be sufficient, as this in practice means that cracking would still be permissible under certain conditions. In its opinion on the law, the Medical Chamber of Slovenia has also attached itself to us, which also calls for a complete ban on fracking in order to obtain natural gas or hydrocarbons from the sandstone. They point out that there is a risk of accidents and environmental pollution and of endangering the health of people with chemicals. In their opinion, for example, it was pointed out that people in areas where hydraulic fracturing is carried out are more likely to suffer from cancer. As an example, leukaemia is highlighted in children and neonatal developmental disorders, as the mixture of injected chemicals, hydrocarbons and chemicals in waste water may contain toxic, carcinogenic and teratogenic chemicals and chemical agents of hormonal disorders that cause a risk of multiple diseases. Is there anything else that needs to be added? Over the past two years, we have never heard of the need to listen to a professional. Let us also listen to it this time and say no to hydraulic fracturing. By doing so, we will protect people's health to the greatest extent possible and prevent environmental degradation. We will continue our struggle for the people of northeastern Slovenia when we consider the government law when we try to tighten the criteria for fracking by amending the law and ban it in its own law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-01-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u139	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 29th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good-bye!
