ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the end of the 36th item of the agenda — Report on the work of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services for 2021 (public part) We are moving on to a discussion on a proposal for a decision submitted to the National Assembly by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. No amendments to the proposal were tabled. We will hold a discussion on the proposal for a decision in the framework of the remainder of the time for all participants in the meeting and on the basis of a direct application to the debate. Anybody want to talk? Comrade Rudy Bear, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u2	Thank you very much, President. In the LMŠ Group, we will support the proposal for a decision. It speaks of the role of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, particularly in the part where emphasis is placed on the protection of human rights. However, I would like to point out that the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services in 2021 was extremely limited to its functioning a year ago. In view of the situation in which it worked, it is in fact a great achievement that it has succeeded in producing a correct report and that most of the tasks that we have set ourselves on the committee have been carried out, however. It is a fact – and this has happened for the first time in the history of the Slovenian Parliament – that the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, which already serves as a basic tool for the opposition to control the repressive authorities in that country, has not had and still does not have a majority. It is logical and normal for him to want to play his part so that he has a majority. However, the ruling coalition has formally adopted or literally seized this commission by means of the commission of a representative of the Slovenian National Party declared to be an opposition and, in fact, maintains this ruling coalition in power all the time and is working appropriately on the commission itself. If there was ever a lack of a coalition vote, they waited, called and ran a representative of the Slovenian National Party, Member Jelinčič, and the coalition could vote on what it wanted. However, what is particularly worrying about all of this is that representatives of the ruling coalition in this committee are concerned that the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services in 2021 was primarily involved in the functioning of the police in the context of anti-government protests in Slovenia. They are concerned that we wanted answers to questions whether the police have acted legally in all these proceedings, whether in the event of protests they have acted proportionately, whether they have ever exceeded their powers, or whether their conduct is influenced by policies, which is an extremely important question whether the use of coercive means, including those of the worst, was professional against citizens. These are the key issues that have recruited citizens of this country in 2021. And now the ruling coalition is concerned that these were key issues for the commission. If they are concerned, they obviously do not need to answer these questions at all. That's what we're worried about. So according to them, the police, under the direct influence of politics, are untouchable, so that no one should ask anything, especially not to complain about anything. On the other hand, it is interesting to note that in the ruling coalition within the Commission, every year, one of their fictional affairs, has become known as an affair, which is said to be the safety principle of this country, namely the employment of an employee in Owl. They even went so far as to conclude that the matter was ripe for the announcement of the alleged crime of former Prime Minister Marjan Šarc, Damir Črnec and former Director of Sova on the basis of nothing. And that seemed more important to them than anything else. And now, let's put this on the scale, what has been happening all year 2021, which has employed the entire Slovenian public, has caused great concern for human rights in this country. This is not obvious to the ruling coalition, but by inflating this affair they now want to make themselves public as security guards in this country. So those who have been brutally employed for two years not only in the state administration, everywhere, in all institutions, especially in the police department, are dragging on a day now as an affair of employment of an employee in Owl, which, by the way, has also been degraded and probably in Owl in view of the disclosure of her identity is also useless for any operational work. This is a worrying concern when reading this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Comrade Primaj Siter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Knovs is the body that oversees the work of police and intelligence services that usually do not come to the public or that deal with classified information and the secret operation of police with hidden methods and so on. On this list of activities that Knovs has monitored in these four years in both its editions, i.e. under the right and left- centred management, there are quite a few very plausible data on how this current government works in particular. If I point out four, which I also presented in the introductions to the closed part of the meeting in the position of the Group of Members. One thing is over, how did the government get the job done? We are hearing a long and wide debate today about this one person whose employment has been problematic at a time when she was opposition herself, but on the other hand we have a thousand and some personnel throughout the map, including the police, on the title of this government. Then, of course, there is cooperation with extremely right-wing groups. It is not only journalist Erik Valenčič who has come to these conclusions that the public are now well known for these connections. And the political summit at the operational centre was involved in protests when it was the most critical and brutal of the protestors. And, of course, the attitude towards refugees in the government of Janez Janša, who are troubled by refugees coming from Africa or the Middle East, but not those who are now coming to us from Ukraine. Let me finish with my statement from the point of view. This government of Janez Janša is not concerned, this government of Janez Janša is racist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u5	Thank you very much. He's also the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u6	Thank you very much, President. Allow me to briefly present part of the report in an open session. In the last two years, we have worked as a commission in extremely difficult conditions, starting with the composition of Knovs. This was the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia in a minority number when we are talking about the role of the opposition, which should have a majority with such an important supervisory authority as the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission. Our work has also been extremely difficult due to constant pressures and threats. Let it be known to the general public that, in my capacity as President of the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, I am the first President of this Commission to be persecuted and persecuted by the authorities. In practically every disclosure of the Commission, I was interviewed by criminals, either in the form of a suspect or in the form of a witness. I just got my last call today. These are five cases that Knovs has dealt with, which the police are also interested in. They want to know where we got the data, what forms of data, what we talked about in public, how it's possible to get this data, and so on. The pressure on us has been exerted since day one not only in the form of a government composition but also in our work. Of the several rebuttal cases that we discovered last year, this was certainly the case of Farrokh, as Sova informed the Prime Minister of the fact that she had prepared the suspicion of criminal services in the event of money laundering in the NLB, namely the New Ljubljana Bank. In this year, there are cases of protests and abuses. We discovered many things, and later we communicated them to the public, as has already been said. Also a visit to the political summit, in the notes, operational centres during the time of the activity itself, such as the open question of what they did on a few protests employees in Owl on the ground. This is the ability to prove simply by the inadvertents carried out by employees in Sovo in Ljubljana on the day of some protests. So the suspicion is that Owl abused her position when she had her own people at the time of the protests. The case is well known when the director of the Owl informed the Prime Minister that Ivan Gale was in one of the protests. There are many other cases like non-paper. Or linking the cabinet of the Prime Minister with the ideology of neo-Naziism presented to us by some investigative journalists. In this case, the Prime Minister did not wish to attend the meeting. Despite the repeated intervention and postponement of certain terms, the Prime Minister has virtually not responded to our mail. We would like it never again, irrespective of the composition of the governments that will, whoever abuses the law enforcement authorities in this way, prevents the Commission from overseeing intelligence and security services, as did the last Janša government. It is unforgivable, it is undemocratic, it is primarily reflected in some other times, to which we are no longer witnesses in our country and from the east they approach or regenerate and expose our society. I would like the Commission to have some powers that it does not have today in the future, and I am talking here mainly about powers in the field of the use of coercive resources, as far as the police are concerned. I think this would be useful in this case, because we have witnessed extremely aggressive approaches and abuses, including violence. With limited powers, the Commission has not been able to disclose everything, but we have managed to communicate to the public things that government representatives would never want. Nevertheless, we are proud of the work done over the past two years, but with a clear warning that it should never happen again. It should never be repeated that the Commission's work to control intelligence and security services and that there should never be any such abuse as we have witnessed in the last two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. The National Assembly will vote on the proposal for a decision on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 33. Agenda item – Defence of the draft resolution on the national adult education programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the 2022 - 2030 The draft resolution was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Mr Damir Orehovac, State Secretary, Ministry of Education, Science and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u8	President, thank you so much for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! You have before you the motion for a resolution on the national adult education programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2022-2030, which was submitted by the Government for adoption by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with a view to establishing a public interest in adult education, i.e. in the area of lifelong learning by 2030, which will also be an enabling condition for drawing on European funds in the next perspective. The proposal before you is prepared on the basis of national and international documents or recommendations of socio-economic status and affects the development of adult education, i.e. demographic development, technological development, labour market needs, educational composition and activities of the population, the achievement of the objectives and indicators of previous resolutions on the national adult education programme in the Republic of Slovenia, the results of international research in the skills of adults PIAAC and the professional basis of the Andragog Centre of Slovenia. The text of the resolution came at the time of the covida-19 pandemic and therefore takes into account the circumstances which underline the strengthening of resilience to such and similar social and economic challenges. In addition to digitisation, it is also a global challenge to maintain a healthy life on the planet and to strengthen sustainability and the circular economy, which we call a green transition. The objectives pursued by the resolution are: to increase the involvement of adults in lifelong learning, to increase the level of basic capacity and to improve general adult education, to increase the educational level of adults, to increase the capacity of the population to respond effectively to labour market needs, to strengthen adult education development and research, to improve and strengthen adult education activities. Each of these objectives shall also include appropriate measures to ensure that the situation in each area is improved. The resolution covers, on the one hand, formal education and informal learning of adults, supporting activities and development research work. It is intended for all who have fulfilled their primary school obligation or are at least 15 years of age. In obtaining public education, the document is limited to adult education under primary, vocational, secondary, secondary and higher vocational education programmes. The implementation of the resolution is under the responsibility of the ministries responsible for adult education, which are also allocated state resources for this purpose. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall each year adopt an annual adult education programme and an amount of resources based on the resolution in force. To a large extent, adult education is also co-financed by European cohesion policy funds and other European schemes. The co-financer is also a local community and other resources. In order to implement the resolution, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will appoint an interdepartmental working group to coordinate actions and activities that will implement the resolution every year through the annual adult education programme, and will certainly be vigilant to ensure that this resolution is implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Ivi Dimic for the presentation of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Secretary of State, Colleagues and Colleagues! At its 27th meeting, on 25 February 2022, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered a motion for a resolution on the national adult education programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2022-2030 submitted by the Government for consideration and adoption by the National Assembly. The motion for a resolution was presented by the representatives of the proposer. The legislative and legal service has examined the resolution submitted in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. Her representative said that the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service were mainly related to the uncertainties of the nomotechnical nature. Both documents containing proposals for amendments to the Committee shall, to an appropriate extent, remove these comments. The Commission of the Council of State for Culture, Science, Education and Sport also gave its opinion, which in its opinion supported the motion for a resolution. Their representative highlighted the new priority area for research and development, as it can be based on different analyses that set out different target groups aimed at lifelong learning programmes. There was a debate in which members and members of the Committee felt that this was a quality document and an important document that would bring positive developments in adult education and result in a longer and broader debate of a large number of stakeholders. It was warned that inclusion in lifelong education in Slovenia is declining. In 2011, 16% were involved and 8.4% in 2020. Systemic conditions for the implementation of the programme are not regulated, nor is stable public funding provided and a public network of institutions offering lifelong education. It often depends on the local community how lifelong learning is available to its inhabitants, which often means that part of the population is discriminated against in terms of access. It was pointed out that when the document was adopted it was also necessary to ensure its implementation. Adult education plays an important role in reducing structural unemployment and retraining of the unemployed. In 2020, the epidemic is not comparable to other years. The resolution itself does not provide financial resources. This will be made possible by the legislation in preparation. The resolution is a good response to the challenge of an ageing society. It is worth considering whether to allow a six-hour worker after 60 years of age, which is a broader debate within the European Union. New forms of work will need to be adapted in the future. Changes have already become a permanent feature of each individual’s life, as well as lifelong learning. She also presented her position to the representative of the Andragog Centre. The Committee adopted proposals for amendments to the Committee and, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted parts of the motion for a resolution. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the supplementary motion for a resolution is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u11	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u12	Again, a nice hello to all! Today's resolution on the national adult education programme in the Republic of Slovenia 2022 - 2030 has been an extended period, a few years. The broad representation and integration of all ministries, chambers, social partners, municipalities, institutions is covered by a well-targeted and strategic resolution. The resolution on the national adult education programme is an important document that will provide a basis for the development of adult education in Slovenia, which we urgently need, as inclusion in lifelong adult education in Slovenia is a trend of decline. In 2011, adult participation was 16% and in 2020 only 8.4%. Therefore, lifelong learning is more important today than ever before. Older people must also be part of a common digital future. In Novi Slovenija we are on the page of the right to choose. While maintaining high quality public education, we also support the development of private education, including in the area of lifelong learning and adult education. We often hear the word lifelong learning, acquiring competence and knowledge, and we really are at a time when it demands that we ourselves be proactive in acquiring new skills and skills. New Slovenia and Minister of Digital Transformation Mark Boris Andrijanic recognized the need for digital reporting of adults. That is why, at our joint initiative, the National Assembly adopted the first system law, which comprehensively regulates the area of digital skills in our country and is intended for all adults over 55 who need additional knowledge in the field of digital skills, in addition to the education of children of the last triad, students and students. Adult education, new skills and competences play an important role in reducing structural unemployment and retraining of unemployment, especially in the case of older than 55 years. We support Minister Mark Boris Andrijanic, who has set himself an ambitious goal of at least 80% of adult Slovenians gain at least basic digital knowledge and skills by 2030. In New Slovenia we are aware that a person is learning throughout his life, so caring for adult education is one of our priorities. This is demonstrated by the actions and integration of modern technology with the way of life. The old Slovenian proverb says that the only constant in life is change. I believe that for our society, which is one of the fastest growing countries within Europe, this resolution and the Ministry of Digitalisation will provide a better quality of life and a safer age. Members of New Slovenia will be supported by a resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group specifically.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greeting to all present, especially the Secretary of State! The theoretical knowledge and findings of adult education and lifelong learning reach almost the beginning of the 20th century, but only December 2020 saw a breakthrough in the existence of human universities in Slovenia. The Rules on Standards and Norms for the Financing and Implementation of the Public Service in the field of Adult Education have been published. After many years of adult education efforts, we finally obtained the legal basis for the public service activities during this term of office of the Minister, Dr Simone Kustec. This is a remarkable achievement and a seal in the field of adult education in terms of equivalence with other entities in the Slovenian education system. The resources devoted to this area also show the importance of adult education in our society. In 2021, the total value of funds, including European funds from all ministries intended to implement adult education programmes, amounted to €87.5 million. The Annual Adult Education Programme for 2022 provides for slightly lower funding compared to 2021, but due to the expiry of the multiannual financial framework for the period up to 2020. The funds will gradually increase with the start of drawing from the current multiannual framework of European cohesion policy, which is expected to be completed in 2027. The resolution on the national adult education programme under consideration highlights the importance of demographic and technological development and the needs of the labour market. It puts the socio-economic position at the forefront. It gives particular importance to the education structure and activities of the population, achieving the objectives and indicators of the previous resolution on the national adult education programme and the results of the international survey on adult skills. The programme objectives are aimed at addressing the development gaps in adult literacy and professional skills, educational levels and inclusion in lifelong learning. In addition, the resolution under consideration sets out objectives such as: increasing the capacity of the population to respond effectively to the labour market, enhanced research and development, and other adult education activities. Particular attention shall be paid to measures relating to adults with low-developed basic capacities that need either to improve general education for personal needs or to further professional or professional training in line with the needs of the labour market. Measures target adults who leave school early over 65 years of age and adults with limited access to social, economic and educational goods. As a result, particular emphasis is placed on the following priority areas: general informal adult education, obtaining broad transferable qualifications for greater stability in the maintenance of work activities and the employability of individuals, professional training and complementarity for labour market needs, research and development, which are important for managing effective policies and activities in the field of adult education. There are many challenges in adult education. Slovenia will be able to progress and develop if it also invests in lifelong learning for all, i.e. adult education. We believe that the motion for a resolution on the national adult education programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2022 – 2030 ensures the realization of this objective. In fact, we will support it in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mojca Škrinjar will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Hello, colleagues and everyone who's following us! In 2012, we were working in the country on how to prevent the collapse of public finances in a global crisis that did not go around Slovenia. At that time, savings had to be made in all areas. Some measures were very painful, ranging from reducing wages to reducing the full subsidy for the second and subsequent children in kindergarten. Nevertheless, the team of Dr. Žiga Turka, the then minister who led the large Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, understood that savings must be followed by development, so they allocated unspoiled funds both for memberships in various global scientific societies, research projects, resources for people, Slovenes and Slovenians who worked in such organisations. For example, I refer to the CERN accelerator in Switzerland and so on. At the same time, for the first time, the team also allocated funds to participate in the international PIAAC study, which is the literacy of adults. The survey has already shown in the first implementation that we do not shine in Slovenia. On the contrary, the information was painful, but useful. The answer to this problem is intensive adult education. This time the resolution on the national adult education programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2022-2030 is based on the Adult Education Act and also takes into account international documents such as Agenda 2030, the European Green Agreement, the Programme of Skills and Skills for Europe for Sustainable Competitiveness, the Council's Recommendations on Bridge to Jobs, the Strengthening of Guarantee for Youth and the like. The resolution covers all adults at the level of education and sets itself as the main objectives: to increase the level of inclusion in lifelong education, to learn, to increase the general education of adults, to increase the educational level of adults, and to increase the capacity of the population to respond effectively to the needs of the labour market and to strengthen development and research in the field of adult education. The resolution also compares a set of appropriate measures to ensure that the document is not intended for itself but offers operationality. We stress that the area of education is the area leading to development, as well as adult education, and is one of the most important foundations of development, as well as the guarantee or guarantee of Slovenia to reach the world summit. Understanding, critical thinking, and lifelong learning are parts that can help to achieve this goal. We will unanimously support the resolution on adult education in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The last position of the SD Group will be presented by Mr Željko Cigler.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u18	Madam President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Adult education according to the data available in the document under consideration today falls irresponsibly in the Republic of Slovenia. There are increasingly fewer funds and organisational units allowing this form of education. The resolution points to this, but I say that when we talk about data that the number of adult education is falling, it has been declining since 2012. This is certainly not the cause of the co-vid crisis, and this must be taken into account when adult education is accelerated and invested in all the positive functions it has. The motion for a resolution on the national adult education programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2022-2030 is the last in the three resolutions of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, which unfortunately had the least interest in the public in the field of adult education, although this is an extremely important area. What we have ahead of us is the easiest thing to describe as a technical document, a resolution due to the resolution, because the previous one has expired and a new one is needed in order to draw on European funds. But unfortunately, the area of adult education is too important for us to leave to just, as we say, running business. Of course, we are aware that the priority of the current management of the Ministry is primarily to its own interests and to the last few days until the elections, which can be truly great services for friends of the government, but unfortunately this is not an excuse to take the principle of "How are we going to? We will easily come before us with such a document, which, as I say, is technically and also good in content, but does not say anything in the resolution, what should be done to address the problems identified. It can be seen that the professional services at the Ministry of Education have done their work properly and responsibly, but what more would the Ministry of Education's political leadership need, which would have had a vision for more than these last few friendly projects, which I mentioned earlier, if they were still so harmful to the field of education and science. Issues such as digitalisation and, above all, digital emancipation of adults in our society are not specifically addressed in the digital ministry's photo-terms. I'm sorry. The skills needed for life and work in the 21st century, where technological development makes everything extremely rapidly changing, are also not sufficiently addressed. Lifelong learning remains a popular vocabulary, but unfortunately that is the only thing. Your Honor! When we talk about the future of education, we must be aware that the world is changing and with it the Slovenian society is changing rapidly. All these changes, from environmental, economic, social, technological and business, require us to be able to anticipate them and integrate them into our education system. What kind of knowledge, skills and competence will we need tomorrow, I ask. What's the future of tomorrow's work? Where will artificial intelligence, robots, put us, where will a person with a different set of skills and skills remain an indispensable factor? At the strategic level, we need to seriously define these challenges and ask ourselves what educational system we can achieve in order to provide everyone with the knowledge, skills and competences we will need to achieve individual and shared ambitions. While the technical document is not opposed, as I have already said, it is clear that this government lacks a strategic reflection that sees beyond the Hungarian development model. That's why April 24th must happen as soon as possible. Let us hope that after this day it will also be different in the field of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have not been tabled, so we will take the decision on the resolution in accordance with the timing of the meeting on Wednesday, 23 March, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 35. On the agenda, this is an evocative proposal for a resolution on the National Social Security Programme for the period 2022-2030. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Cveto Uršić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u20	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The resolution on the national social protection programme until 2030 represents the continuity of the development of social protection from Slovenia's independence. In doing so, it takes into account the facts that are now taking place or will be assumed to be so by 2030. These include: the impact of the covida-19 epidemic on the labour market, the accelerated ageing of the population, especially in Slovenia, which is one of the fastest growing societies in Europe, and consequently the reduction of the working population, digitisation and robotics and, of course, the transition to the green economy. The changed social relations thus require the development and adaptation of the social security system, so that it will allow for a rapid and effective response to the changing needs of people while providing a strong security network for individuals and families in vulnerable situations. The resolution thus sets the basic ground for the operation and development of the social protection system, sets out objectives and activities to achieve these objectives, further implement and monitor the implementation of the resolution and the human and financial resources to achieve the objectives of this motion for a resolution. The resolution has three key objectives, which are the same as in the previous resolution, which was in force until 2021. The first objective is to reduce the risk of poverty and increase social inclusion. The aim is to reduce the number of people who risk social exclusion or live below the poverty line. The second objective is to improve accessibility and diversity and to ensure the accessibility and availability of services and programmes. If I say just one case. The relationship between the users of community services, i.e. the services I receive at home, in the home environment, and in institutional protection, should gradually be one against the other. This is also addressed by the Long-Terms Act. The third general objective is to establish conditions for the functioning of implementing organisations and to strengthen the quality and development of social protection. This is how housing social security programmes are planned to be transferred to the public network, where they so far co-financed at 80% in order to be financed at 100%. This also means supporting the development of non-governmental organisations that carry out different services and programmes in this area and are very important for complementing public operators. Each objective then has a detailed division of tasks. For each task, there are also indicators of the state of affairs and what the goal is by 2030. These indicators are quantified in percentage, i.e. percentages, or absolute numbers. At the end of the second part of the programme, there is also a specific chapter on implementation and monitoring of the implementation of the programme. Without regular annual monitoring without regular annual evaluations, such a programme cannot be implemented. Maybe just for the end, this programme represents, as I said at the beginning, the continuity of the development of social protection from Slovenia's independence or continuity even since the development of social protection in the Socialist Republic of Slovenia. Sociala is an area that does not tolerate rapid and major changes, but people need security and the social protection system ensures the safety of these most vulnerable people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a working parent. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Tadeji Šuštar Zalar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is held at its 39th session. 3. 2022 considered a motion for a resolution on the national social protection programme for the period 2022-2030 submitted by the Government for consideration and adoption by the National Assembly. The Legislative and Legal Service has examined the motion for a resolution in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. Her representative felt that, in determining the content or description of the intended conduct in the text, the use of verbs in the first person of the plural should be abandoned and that the Law on Public Finance Balance still formally applied, only most of its individual provisions were exhausted by the passage of time and by the removal of conditions, which should be duly taken into account in the text. It further explained that the text should take into account consistently that in December 2021 a system law on long-term care was adopted and enforced. The Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons also gave its opinion, which supported the motion for a resolution. In the introduction, the motion for a resolution was presented by a representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. There was a debate in which members and members of the Committee felt that the motion for a resolution was largely complemented by legislative changes. They explained that the resolution adequately addresses the challenges of social protection in the future and is not ambitious enough to address poverty reduction and social inclusion. They considered that accessibility and service availability would have to be ensured in the future, as the long-term care of the elderly would be ongoing and the Long-term Care Act did not address many problems, such as financial resources, lack of staff and the problem of public-private relations. They warned that we are coming to a time when the current fiscal rule will soon be again and welcome the projected increase in the number of people in nursing homes. However, some have been critical of the motion for a resolution and have considered that this is only a list of good wishes, since it does not contain projects, measurable objectives, timelines and evaluations as a serious programme should. They explained that the envisaged assessment of the need for social protection users was harmful, that private individuals still played an important role in accessing home care through concessions, which proved to be a poor practice, that the deinstitutionalisation envisaged was difficult to implement and that the motion for a resolution should wait and include the entire professional public in its design. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted parts of the motion for a resolution. As amendments have not been adopted to the motion for a resolution on the home working body, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and the Disability of the National Assembly proposes that the draft resolution on the national social protection programme for the period 2022 to 2030 be adopted in the text before it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. I once again invite colleague Tadejo Šuštar Zalar to present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u24	The Resolution on the National Social Protection Programme for the period 2022-2030 sets out guidelines for the operation and development of the social protection system by 2030. The three key objectives relating to the development of the social protection system are: reducing the risk of poverty and increasing social inclusion, improving accessibility and diversity, ensuring the accessibility and availability of services and programmes, establishing conditions for the functioning of implementing organisations, and enhancing the quality and development of social protection. The essential services in the field of social protection are information, advice and support services provided by social work centres as a public service, services for the maintenance of independent, independent life at home and active integration into the community and accommodation services. The adoption of the Long-Term Care Act establishing a new pillar of social security is very important. Complementary or alternative to social security services and measures are social security programmes co-financed on the basis of calls for proposals. User needs are changing and becoming increasingly complex, so it is necessary to modernise the area in order to provide comprehensive and continuous assistance to users and to ensure regional accessibility of programmes. Social protection programme providers are an important pillar of social protection policy implementation because they are in constant and close contact with users in their environment and are able to respond quickly to the user’s everyday needs. In the field of work of social security service providers and programmes, the quality of service delivery will have to be ensured through further education and training, the introduction of new technologies as support for the implementation and development of services and programmes, the development of an information system that would allow for a uniform way of managing and evaluating services and the more stable financing of social security programmes. In the area of wage policy, comparable remuneration for comparable work with social security providers and programmes should be provided. The demographic changes and vulnerability of certain groups and the consequences of covid-19 will require the expansion of social security networks and new employment in the area of social protection, which will make an important contribution to the creation of new jobs both in the public and private sectors and in non-governmental organisations. Social security is based on the basic idea of solidarity. The Community avoids risks that an individual will never be able to resolve. Basic forms of solidarity are assistance and support in the inner circle, family, among friends, between neighbours and in private communities. The company must ensure that no individual or group lives below the social security threshold. We promote awareness of the individual's personal responsibility for his or her own social situation, especially in his or her age. Several factors are therefore responsible for the social security of each individual. First, each individual, then his or her family, his or her working and living environment and the last country with effective legislation and adequate financial resources. We are also aware of the contribution and support of voluntary NGOs, which, through their innovation, flexibility and adaptation of services and user needs programmes, represent a complement to the public sector and contribute significantly to social well-being and greater social security. The state will not give charity, nor will it allow for free life, and it will make life in social security possible. Anyone who is solidarity is willing to give up something that relies on the solidarity of the state has an obligation to contribute to the state. Solidarity prohibits the exploitation of the social security system. Solidarity needs subsidiarity and subsidiarity needs responsibility. The State must make such action possible and facilitate for its citizens. I will support the resolution in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Vojko Starović, who will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u26	Vice President, thank you for your word. We have yet another resolution before us, another strategic document, which is mainly about giving general direction to public policies, in this case in the area of social protection. The social state, which Slovenia is already in the Constitution itself, is obliged to ensure that all those citizens who cannot take care of it alone have the most necessary means of living, worthy of human dignity. It is also the duty of the State to take care to reduce social disparities and social inequalities and contradictions, so that everyone is given to live a solid life. In the SAB, we want to create a solidarity Slovenia. The most solidarity is among citizens who are always willing to help each other. This is our great advantage and a morally high matter. But when we talk about solidarity on the part of the State, many times it actually leads to inadequate answers. For the social sector, it is most important that we allow working people to work, because work creates new value and everyone who is able to work should be given a job in this Slovenia. However, those who are able to work do not want and cannot receive social support. The resolution addresses one of the most sensitive areas and concerns the most vulnerable groups. In view of this, we in the SAB Group believe that the broadest support should be enjoyed among all stakeholders directly linked to it. But it's not like that. For example, in the Srebrna Nit, they point out that it is not a sufficiently concrete document and that there are no measurable objectives of the time-frame or financial plan for the proposed measures. In the SAB, we agree with the above indications and have a sense of déjà vu. It all reminds too much of the already seen complications in the law, which in its content and many points are intertwined with the present resolution and which, given the importance and sensitivity of the area under consideration, should also receive broad support. We're talking about the Long-Term Care Act. There are more questions than answers. The similarity with regard to the financial aspect is particularly problematic. In the Long-Term Supply Act, we witnessed a vague financial structure that was inconsistent and inconsistent. Let us look at the resolution in substance. The main objectives set out in the resolution are: to reduce the risk of poverty and to increase social inclusion, to improve accessibility and diversity and to ensure the accessibility and availability of services and programmes and to establish conditions for the functioning of implementing organisations and to strengthen the quality and development of social protection. There is no problem in establishing this objective. Well, to put it bluntly, on the principle level, it's the easiest thing to do, and the reality is something else. In view of the comments, there seems to be no real basis for applying what has been written in too many questions, since the resolution often does not contain sufficient concrete solutions and guidance. That seems irresponsible to us. It is not only about the sensitivity of the area, it is also about the sensitivity of the period in which we are. Not only the covida-19 epidemic, which most emerges, there are also accelerated population ageing, reduced working ability and working population, technological revolution and digitalisation. And we could list it. All of these require several proposals which the resolution should simply contain. Despite agreeing on the objectives and the undeniable desire to achieve them, we are detained in the SAB because of all the above-mentioned resolution and cannot therefore be supported in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Group will be presented by Mrs Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Social security in Slovenia must be at the forefront of every policy and government. It is an area requiring a high degree of consensus in order to agree on how to ensure, through appropriate measures in the health, labour and housing fields, the conditions for safe age and the social inclusion of disadvantaged and excluded social groups or individuals. Measures based on constitutional values and aiming to ensure social justice, solidarity and equal opportunities should benefit from broad political and social support. The measures provided for in the resolution in question, aimed at improving availability, diversity and ensuring the accessibility of services and programmes, give a strong emphasis to the social welfare communities, which also follow the orientations of deinstitutionalisation and long-term care. People who need help are placed at the forefront, but with the aim of staying at home for as long as possible. Of course, this is difficult to achieve without cooperation with the local environment, which must provide adequate support social services to enable the needy to stay as long as possible or provide care in the home environment. In order to reduce the risk of social exclusion and consequently increase social inclusion, measures are envisaged to strengthen the labour market and modernise the pension system, with a focus on increasing the rate of activity of persons aged 55 to 64. The motion for a resolution sets out a number of other measures and objectives. Key social protection measures are still based on a wide range of social security services and programmes, including taxes. It is important that their scope and content are adapted to the needs of the population and to changes in society. In addition to the state budget funds, the European Structural and Investment Fund is expected to draw on intensive European funds in the future. We will be able to extend some of the measures and implement them by means of funds from that Fund also in the future multiannual financial framework. Some new programmes, such as the integration and integration of social protection providers, focusing on the training and development of services in the field of parental competences and the human resources strengthening of social work centres, are also intended to draw on the European Fund. One of the major challenges that has been faced during the adoption of the Long-Term Care Act is the provision of long-term care insurance. This is followed by the challenge of further integration of social security programmes, which significantly complement the social security services network. One of the most important steps introduced by the resolution is the transfer of housing social security programmes to the public network and the provision of 100 % funding from the state budget. Here we are talking about maternity homes, shelters for the homeless, safe houses, which are financed from the state budget at 80%. This would ensure the stability of the implementation of programmes for the most vulnerable social groups: children, mothers and individuals who, due to personal hardships, find themselves without a roof over their heads. Finally, we must be aware that one of the more difficult objectives remains to raise the quality of services and programmes, which are reflected in the need to change standards and standards, to update the information system, to invest in education and to train employees and to ensure better pay for their work. Without adequate funding from the state budget, however, it is difficult to expect drastic movements if the burden of achieving this objective lies primarily with the operators themselves. In particular, the draft resolution on the national social protection programme for the period 2022 - 2030 will be supported in the Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Lenart will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Nice greetings to all, especially the guests from the Ministry! We are discussing the motion for a resolution on the national social protection programme for the period 2022 - 2030, which was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal covers a period marked by important social and economic challenges. The covida-19 epidemic affected the labour market - the forms of work and the increase in work from home are changed. Population ageing is increasing, reducing the number of working people, the active stage of digitisation and robotics. However, both globalisation and external trade dynamics and the transition to a green economy will be important among economic challenges. The general objective referred to in the resolution is to improve the quality of life of individuals and families and to strengthen social cohesion, solidarity and social inclusion of all groups. It is increasingly important for an individual to remain healthy as long as possible in view of the accelerated ageing of the population and the extension of his life expectancy. With age and longer life, the health of an individual is deteriorating due to chronic diseases, and mental problems are increasing. As a result of the covida-19 epidemic, we can expect them to be even more frequent, so there is also a need to strengthen preventive action or a lifelong approach to ageing. The growing number of people with dementia and other cognitive disorders is also a major challenge in the context of population ageing. The number of persons with dementia is expected to increase significantly over the next 20 years. This calls for attention to the development and adaptation of services for persons with dementia, such as the strengthening of daily forms of protection, as well as the development of forms of assistance for persons with dementia and non-formal providers in the local environment. It is also very important to establish long-term care insurance, as the level of aid received by an individual is not always in line with its actual needs. An important contribution to the regulation of this area is the adoption of the Long-Term Care Act adopted last year, as a statutory law and as a basis for ensuring that the elderly and other vulnerable groups are well cared for and that people are allowed to live independently and safely in their home environment for as long as possible. We all find that there are increasing numbers of elderly people who want to stay when they can no longer take care of themselves in the home environment. From this title has also been passed the Long-Term Care Act, which I believe will have good and long-term effects in the future so that our elderly can actually live well, worthy of age. As a result, there are several types of care, from institutional to home care. In Slovenia, informal providers, which are around 10%, play a major role in the care of older people in the home environment. This means that around 200,000 people in Slovenia regularly help a family member, acquaintance or neighbor to perform everyday tasks. They will therefore be burdened and supported during the period of implementation of the resolution. Palliative care will also be strengthened as an integrated form of assistance to users of social security services during the last period of life and support to families during illness and mourning. The programme of the Slovenian Democratic Party also states that we will take responsible care of our citizens at their age, which is what we apply to this successful government and this coalition. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the draft resolution on the national social protection programme for the period 2022-2030 is a good one, so we will support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group will be presented by Mr Željko Cigler.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u32	Madam President, thank you for your word. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Resolution on the National Social Protection Programme is a development document in Slovenia in the area of the social protection system, which is the basic starting points and principles for the development of the social system, the key objectives in this area, the network for the provision of social services, and in particular the responsibility of individual actors in this area. And here the responsibility of the State is very great, and it is transferred to the implementation of the Ministry of Labour. We believe that this time a motion for a resolution giving direction to the functioning of the social system for the coming decade is largely followed by a previous resolution, in particular its content and structure. The proposal sets out the same objectives for the development of the social protection system by 2030: reducing the risk of poverty and increasing the social inclusion of vulnerable and vulnerable groups and improving the availability, affordability and accessibility of social services and improving their quality and implementation. In the years to come, therefore, we can expect the highest requirements for different social protection programmes and services in the area of the long-term care of the elderly, which I practically think we are repeating all the parties now, and we are aware of that. At the same time, the Social Democrats continue to point out that the current long-term care law adopted by the ruling coalition at the end of last year does not provide an adequate basis for regulating the long-term care system, especially since we do not have regulated stable financing of long-term care in the form of solidarity social security. At the time of the adoption of the law, we have made it clear that this may result in the cost of implementation being passed on to users and their owners. Unfortunately, our predictions are now coming true. And this is for Slovenia, which is a social state in the constitution, which is unacceptable. On Friday, 18 March, the deadline for the adoption of rules will be set for finalising the rights and services to which long-term care users will be entitled, even though this should be regulated by law. The profession and civil society associations now point out that the proposed rules reduce the quality of life and the level of older persons, as long-term care users, especially residents in homes for older, much-needed services without which they cannot live, will have to pay from their pockets. If they don't have the money, they won't get to these services. What kind of long-term care will it be, I ask. For this is a shorter time for direct assistance to the elderly, such as assistance in feeding, washing and body care. Critical criteria for assessing eligibility from long-term care services are also expected to be extremely stringent. The fight against poverty and social exclusion, particularly among older women, will also pose a major challenge in the area of the elderly in the coming decade. That is why we are surprised by the lack of ambition of the competent ministry in its first objective, which is to reduce the risk of social exclusion, especially of older women, once again. If we were able to reduce the number of people at risk of social exclusion in 2019 to 293 000 in 2019, I would point out, then we would expect a new objective of reducing the risk of social exclusion to be set at least at this level or even slightly lower. According to the latest figures from 2020, social exclusion was risky for 309,000 people in Slovenia, and the aim in the resolution is to reduce this number by only 9,000, i.e. 300,000. With such a low target, it seems that we have somehow met the result achieved, as the aim of the previous resolution, to reduce the number of people at risk of social exclusion, from 361,000 in 2008 to 321 thousand in 2020, has been achieved. We note that we do not have specific plans to deal with this case of poverty and social exclusion. In continuing to reduce poverty, it will also be necessary to play an important role at social work centres. It is therefore essential to strengthen the professional autonomy of social workers and workers at these centres, to reduce their administrative burden and to increase their presence in the field, to engage and devote themselves to people and to provide assistance to those who suffer social assistance. The motion for a resolution constitutes an upgrade to the previous resolution, which expired in 2020. In principle, the resolution at the substantive level adequately addresses key social protection challenges. However, problems will arise in its implementation, notably in providing sufficient financial resources and staff for the delivery of social security services and programmes in the field of greater social inclusion, protection and care for people with special needs and long-term care for the elderly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter will present the last position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representative of the Minister, welcome! The present document, therefore, of the draft resolution on the national social protection programme for the period 2022-2030, deletes the broad strategic direction for the development of social protection, thus a key element of the social state. That's not what the government's doing here. The resolution serves the wrong definitions and harmful measures, which are neither meaningful nor genuinely compatible with the Left programme, so we will oppose it. Let me explain. At conceptual level, social policy is still a means of forcing the less educated and disadvantaged to accept underpaid work under poor working conditions. Social policy also remains at the level of the so-called ‘work fair’ of the country, i.e. countries whose purpose is not to eliminate poverty as such, but to provide cheap labour. In the area of social work, the social state system is literally falling apart, educated and skilled workers are leaving, social work centres are changing into institutions of supervision and have fewer and fewer contacts with users and their needs. Social work is politically centralised, rather than setting and managing the work of social services by skilled workers who know social problems in local environments. This resolution does not even recognize or eliminate these problems. It provides direct support for a harmful income reform, which is supposed to respond to the alleged over-payments and social benefits, unwarrantedly underlines the importance of measures to prevent unduly acquired social transfers, in the recitals, and the exercise of control over the purposeful use of the budget resources, which means only more control and more repression of the poor. He talks about the financial disclosure of indebted individuals and poor families, as if it were financial illiteracy, but not the brutal exploitation of those causes of poverty in Slovenia. The most harmful measure, however, is the establishment of a system for assessing the needs of users in the field of social protection. This is in practice a social protection triage, a triage before talking to a social worker. We have been warned that this is extremely harmful, since the purpose of this measure would be to implement questionnaires and allocate user assessments before they could actually contact the social worker or social worker who would personally deal with them, to their case, and to identify their needs. So more bureaucracy, more algorithms, less human contact. One of the biggest mistakes in the present document is certainly the fact that there are not even a number of people living below the poverty risk threshold among the three key indicators for social policy adoption, which is a complete absurdity, given that the aim of social protection is to reduce social inequalities. Privates continue to play an important role with concessions and, above all, at the level of institutional long-term care, home for the elderly, which is unacceptable for Levice, more expensive care, market power, profit over people's needs. These are things from which we, as a society, must turn away. In Levica we advocate completely different concepts of the social state, a country that actually helps people in distress, helps, a country that eliminates poverty and understands that poverty and social exclusion are not individual but a social problem. The elimination of poverty, colleagues and colleagues, the elimination of social exclusion is a matter of political decision. This resolution does not offer this, so we will oppose it in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments were adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a resolution, and the decision on the motion for a resolution will therefore be held on Wednesday, 23 March, as part of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 37. PERIOD OF THE DAY, ON THE REVENUE OF THE INTERMEDIATE REPORT ON THE COURT OF PARLAMENTAL INVESTIGATION FOR FINDING OUT THE REAL STATE AND MORITICAL POLITICAL RESPONSES OF THE CARRIAGES OF PUBLIC FUNCTIONS IN THE IMPLEMENTATION OF MEASURES RELATED TO THE CIVID 19 EMPLOYMENT, AND ON THE RELIEF OF THE COURSE OF THE COURT OF NON-CULAR EXPENSES OF PUBLIC FUNDS AND THE IMPRIMINATION OF RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS, FOR THE PERIOD OF 13. MARCH 2020 until the date of the determination of the subject matter of a parliamentary investigation and for the possible amendment of the applicable legislation governing State action in the event of an epidemic of contagious diseases with its consequences. In its consideration of the meeting, the Interim Report was submitted by the Investigative Commission on the identification of the possible political responsibility of public function holders for financially inadequate measures and the suspicion of unjustified restriction of rights in the implementation of measures related to the covida disease epidemic-19. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Mr Robert Pavšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u36	Thank you, Madam President. For some, content is important, but for some it is just form. First, let's ask how it all started. Let us recall the nightly founding meeting of the Government on 13 March 2020 and the famous photo deadline with protective masks. Just for the form, just for the pear effect, which was scary. Just to make it important, at a time when you claim that there was nothing, no equipment, you destroyed 30 quality and usable FFP3 masks just for the form, because it seemed very important to you at the symbolic level. And you were quiet. When I talk about you, I think about the government, I think about you, all ministers, ministers, secretary of state, and especially the Prime Minister. I'm sure he made his own personal and conscious decision for this event. You were silent because he is a lifesaver, a savior without whom this country would, in his opinion and in the opinion of all the helpers, have long been wiped out. Far from the truth. That's what we see today. And we've seen this even more in the last two years. Not only have you seen it, you've seen it. If we leave this moment aside from closing the congregation, the curfew, preventing children from education with special needs, and banning the collection and expression of opinions and even a series of prohibitions, by the way, most of them were illegal or even unconstitutional, we must look at the background, find the motive and consequences of this motive. While people were dying, Janša's elite was rich at the expense of extending waiting lines, at the expense of restricting access to health, at the expense of the health of the people who will now pay the tax for your work. For half of the less diagnosed cancers, it will have tragic and catastrophic consequences only because the government, with the support of its service profession, has failed to organise the health system, rather dealing with marginal issues, micromanagement and pear spini. You were quiet. It is clear that the ruling taxpayer millions are worth more than people's lives. So how can we trust the government, the system, the politics, your profession, which has nodded to you? In the interim report of the Commission of Inquiry, we explain to you the methodology of the evidence procedure and the key findings. The Commission has demonstrated that the political responsibility for the consequences of inadequate treatment and control of the covida epidemic 19 is primarily borne by the 14th Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and in particular by its President Janez (Ivan) Janša, who, without a legal basis, directly and personally intervened in the professional decision-making processes and adapted them to his interests, motives. The Commission found that the response to the first wave of the epidemic was rapid and effective, which is not applicable to the second wave and everything else. In order to effectively address and manage the first wave, they confirm the testimony of the interrogated experts and government representatives. It is also confirmed by the 14th Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which celebrated the victory over the epidemic on June 1, 2020. At that time we won and celebrated the victory, even though we should be preparing for the second wave, because of its magnitude, the inevitability of the profession, the real profession, not yours. There's nothing on the government side. Therefore, the Commission's findings regarding the second and all subsequent waves of the epidemic are quite different. The government’s responses were absolutely too late at the time of the flight, although professional, even the government’s expert group, as well as the Joseph Stefan Institute, constantly pointed out the deterioration of the indicators. No, no, no. Instead of preparing yourself, you sporadicly, non-homogeneously communicated increasingly illogical measures, which were later subject to the Constitutional Court's judgment. You've been smokin', threatening', planning', and legislating' fines, and you've been saying them. Your communication, in particular your failure to act, has caused the second wave to be inevitable and worse than the first one, which confirms in particular the number of excess deaths. Numbers cannot be distorted. According to the follower.org, excessive deaths measure the difference between the annual number of all deaths and the multi-annual average, and therefore the latter are the most sad and at the same time the most comprehensive indicator of the direct and indirect consequences of the epidemic in us and in the world. I quote: "In 2020 we had over 3 000 600 deaths in Slovenia above the usual average. In certain months, mortality was even more than 80% higher than normal. So many people died from the epidemic in 2020. This is more than a thousand 700 additional deaths per million inhabitants.” End of story. According to researchers, only Russia, with 18% of excess deaths, followed by Slovenia by 17.3%, Belgium by 16.2%), England and Wells by 14%, Serbia by 13.9%, France, the Netherlands and Portugal by 10%, Croatia by 8.3%, Sweden by 7.9% and Germany by 5.3%, respectively. And it's not just numbers, it's every percent, it's every gap in these numbers, it's got a name and a last name for a man who could save his life. But no! They were more important other results and other more subtle motives. And what is most significant? What did the profession find? I state: "In view of the total number of excess deaths, we can safely claim that in 2020 covid-19 indirectly and directly increased mortality more than measures were able to reduce it indirectly and directly. The result is the excess of death.” End of story. That's my line of work. And when the profession uses the word “certainly” it holds. This vocabulary is not often used by the profession, so certainty is very important. You can refer to what, you can apologize for the manipulations, the lies, you can close your eyes, you can try to put our coats on. For each of these victims, inappropriate measures are at fault. John (John) Janša, the whole government, political officials and with him all those who supported it, bear responsibility for these. The reasons for inadequate management of the health crisis are complex, but they point to a conscious adjustment of the decision-making processes by conscious neglect of the profession, particularly those that had different opinions than the government and opposed its decisions. Whoever opposed it was discredited as a man and as an expert. You've been quiet about this. How did you design professional support? Even John (John) Janša himself personally called herself a servile professional group in order to be able to discharge her responsibilities. He personally proposed to each individual in this group, some even calling himself. You were quiet. Thus, past the current law on communicable diseases and the state plan for protection and rescue in the outbreak of such phenomena, the Prime Minister appointed his expert group and chose its composition, taking full responsibility. Politically, of course. Other responsibilities: Infringement of ethical and moral principles and suspicions of crime are investigated by others. But also members of this section will have to explain their decisions to themselves at least if not to the public and to colleagues in the profession. At that time, the current legislation and plans predicted that the management of the epidemic of communicable diseases would be taken over by the Ministry of Health and the National Institute for Public Health, because this is exactly the kind of problem its basic mission is. This is public health. However, it was necessary to create a system that covered and covered up for this already qualified and educated profession. You were quiet. It is quite clear that public health has been pushed aside by the creation of new elites, that there will be enough money for the political future and lobbyists to visit the homes of leading politicians, to visit luxury yachts, for the possibility of third eggs, because there is never an important individual, let alone human health, but it is important to be at the top that you can allow customerism and corruption, of course by public means. Money can be replaced and lives lost will never be replaced again. In fact, it is better that we remain silent today because we have already listened to the lies.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Marko Bandelli, who will present the position of the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u38	Dear colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of Article 23(3) of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, the Commission adopted an interim report on the conduct of the parliamentary investigation to determine the actual situation and possible political responsibilities of the holders of public functions in the implementation of the measures related to the covid-19 epidemic and to mitigate its consequences due to the suspicion of inadequate use of public funds and the unjustified restriction of rights and freedoms, for the period from 13 March 2020 to the date of the determination of the parliamentary investigation in question and for any modification of the applicable legislation governing the State's action in the event of an epidemic of communicable disease or its consequences. As we have found in the Commission of Inquiry, the response to the first wave of the epidemic was rapid and effective, and this does not apply to the second wave and all subsequent waves. The fact that the first wave was effective confirms both the executive opinion and the testimony of the experts and government representatives interviewed. However, the findings were also confirmed by the members of the Commission of Inquiry. However, contrary to the expert group’s recommendations regarding masking, the use of masks among the healthy outdoor population, and in particular regarding the use of masks in children, should be highlighted. We consider the management of the health crisis to be inappropriate. In our opinion, too, the communication and conduct of government representatives were inadequate. The results of the investigation show that the decision-making processes have been deliberately adjusted by conscious neglect of the profession. We have found that the profession has had several conflicting opinions with government decisions. We have found that the Prime Minister himself appointed his ad hoc professional group, in service, past the current law on communicable diseases and the state plan for protection and rescue at the outbreak of the epidemic, and I have chosen its composition and thus assumed all subjective and objective responsibility. In the light of all the evidence produced, the Commission concludes that the measures taken during the term of office of the parliamentary commission of inquiry were also unconstitutional and repeatedly contrary to the profession. We have found this in the verification of rapid antigen tests, as suspicion of abuse of official position and damage to public funds in the execution of public procurement is being investigated by the NPU. The Commission notes that the government responded too late to the second wave of the epidemic. In addition, when the critical points of crisis occurred, the measures deteriorated rapidly and firmly and without justification infringed fundamental human rights, as the Constitutional Court has also found in several cases. Political responsibility for the consequences of inadequate treatment and control of the covida-19 epidemic as a result of excessive deaths, illegal restriction of human rights, failure to respect the profession carries as a collective body in Slovenia only the 14th Government of the Republic of Slovenia and President Janez (John) Janša as he intervened in the professional decision-making processes and adapted them to his interests. In the SAB, we will confirm the proposed conclusions of the Commission of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the Group will be presented by Mrs Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Members and colleagues! A year and a half ago, we believed in our parliamentary group in the good purpose of this parliamentary investigation. When it was established, we made it clear that we are aware of the magnitude of the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic, which marked our lives, our economy, our education system, and, above all, our health. Health care or an accessible health system is a constitutionally protected category. This constitutional principle was followed by measures taken by the Government to combat the epidemic and mitigate its consequences. More than a two-year period has been marked by a number of initiatives to assess the constitutionality of certain government decisions. Their common denominator was, in particular, politically motivated indications of an unjustified restriction of rights and freedoms, which the Constitutional Court did not, as a rule, impose on them. Thus, in its decision of August 2020, it considered that the introduction of a restriction on the movement to the municipality of residence had a constitutionally permissible objective, i.e. infecting and controlling the spread of communicable diseases and thereby protecting the health and life of people. A year later, the Constitutional Court found constitutional non-compliance with the law on communicable diseases concerning the regulation of restrictions on movement and assembly, but this legal basis for government decisions was not eliminated in order to adequately protect the health and life of people. The so-called PCT condition was then challenged in the Constitutional Court, but also this failure. We cite these cases because the Constitutional Court has already confirmed that the objective of government measures has always been to control and combat the spread of the epidemic, in which there was no unjustified restriction of rights and freedoms. This clearly casts off one of the main assumptions of this commission of inquiry. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the National Assembly, as legislator or commission of inquiry, as an instrument for determining the political responsibility of public function holders, is not competent to assess the appropriateness and proportionality of the measures. This is the task of the Constitutional Court as the guardian of the constitutional categories of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Similarly, the Court of Auditors is responsible for determining the possible inadequate use of public funds. The Court of Auditors shall determine the usefulness and effectiveness of the use of public money on the basis of the criteria of the audit profession. Since its establishment, however, this Commission of Inquiry has clearly intended to assess this assumption on the basis of political and not professional audit criteria. In vain, we hoped that these investigative commissions would not be used by its initiators or its president as a means of political struggle, but the course of investigations and interrogations of witnesses could almost be described as a political-media show by pursuing the goal of consolidating its version of the truth. This spirit also contains an interim report that we are considering today. The findings recorded are inaccurate, misleading and the outcome is the proposed conclusions which are inadequate, unnecessary or unacceptable to cities and even exceed the powers of the Commission of Inquiry. One such is, for example, a proposal for a decision to improve media legislation. Of course, public RTV should be at the service of all citizens and provide objective information. Disagreement of public persons and politicians with certain publications is not yet an intervention in journalistic or editorial freedom and autonomy. Any criticism expressed does not mean undue pressure. Especially since, in the light of the broadest social interest in overcoming the epidemic, it was then very appropriate and rapid media response. With regard to the content of this interim report, however, the desire to re-examine the proposal of another commission of inquiry, namely the Commission of Inquiry on the provision of protective equipment and the measures taken by institutions and public function holders to combat the spread of covid disease from 1 February 2020 until the purpose of the parliamentary inquiry in question, is very noticeable. In the case at hand, the coalition, with the initiative to set up an investigative commission, has overtaken the opposition, but this has become more than obvious. Let us recall the resignation of the former Prime Minister just at the time of the pandemic, which today, from a two-year distance, may even appear more than then to be an unrealistic and irresponsible act. This awareness and desire to cover up this extraordinary political error may also be the reason why his client, since he has been in opposition and from which he is also the chairman of this commission of inquiry, has been based his political story on a structured affair of procurement of medical protective equipment. This interim report, which we are considering today, is therefore, according to our assessment, a battlefield for those who in key moments were not up to the seriousness of the function, who were not able to offer first and then, in another role, to accept the terms of cooperation. Instead, they preferred to open new fronts and hoard the new government's activities to deal with the consequences of the epidemic. And this is the whole and only red thread of this interim report, which is also dealt with in time just before the regular parliamentary elections. Therefore, let us not forget who has left the battlefield unhonorably and prematurely and has — paradoxical and pathetic — now the most important to his successors. Our expectations that the Commission of Inquiry will carry out its work professionally and irreproachably have unfortunately not been realized. In the Group of Members, we therefore reject the essential findings of this interim report with the conclusions presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Ms Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u42	The numbers don't lie. Especially those that cannot be reinterpreted in several different ways. During the covida-19 epidemic, 3 000 600 people died in Slovenia more than in the years when the epidemic was gone. Three thousand 600. Slovenia therefore lost almost as many inhabitants as the Municipality of Trzin, for example. This is a tragic result of the struggle of this government and its President against the epidemic. The total number of covid-19 deaths exceeds 6 thousand 400. The interim report of the Commission of Inquiry shows us very clearly how this government has been, in what way this Prime Minister has undertaken this difficult project. One of the first moves was concerting the power of decision in one person. The profession, which has more than competent knowledge to deal with and manage epidemics, has dedicated itself to a consultative, symbolic role. In fact, he transferred the decision from the competent ministry and from the professional institutions operating within the Ministry to the government, where he himself obviously had the first, last and only word. So, somehow, as is usually the case in emergency or war situations, even then, generals are often more important than commander-in-chief. This Prime Minister obviously doesn't know otherwise, he doesn't, or, rather, he's not capable of running governments in any other way. From the very beginning of the epidemic, he may not have realized that he does not have the teeth of an armed enemy on the other hand, but that he is concerned, sometimes also frightened by people who are more than constant pressure and under-appreciative communication and illogical and literally daily changing government decisions against epidemic measures need understanding, thorough, rational explanations and, above all, involvement in attempts to achieve the broadest possible social consensus for all necessary steps. People in Slovenia are no different from those in other European countries, but the crisis has been completely different: thoughtful, peaceful, effective and, above all, less aggressive. Unfortunately, however, we had a government in Slovenia that managed this crisis in full contrast with those countries, which should be an example to us. No, no, no. In Slovenia, at the time of the biggest health crisis, we faced harsh rhetoric, intimidation of citizens and citizens, and all the more so than setting examples. Remember government officials without masks and dirty sandwiches and attempts at border crossings and the like. That we don't even lose words about saga with fast tests. Let me remind you of another move that, in our opinion, marked the wrong policy of this government and its President. As early as June 2020, the European Commission adopted a European vaccine strategy and then, through pre-purchase agreements with individual vaccine producers, ensured the right to purchase a certain number of doses over a certain period of time and at a certain price. In November and December of that year, Slovenia adopted the National Vaccination Programme and the COVID-19 vaccination strategy and soon signed contracts with all vaccine producers. The distribution of vaccines among EU members was based on the key share of the population. The first supply contract of around 1.4 million doses of vaccine was signed by the current Minister of Health, Tomaž Gantar, with AstraZeneca before December. The contract with Pfizer-Biontech was signed by State Secretary Marija Magajne. Slovenia should receive about 900 thousand doses of vaccines after it. Slovenia received only about 16,000 doses of Pfizer at the end of December, as did the other Member States of the European Union, and more delays were made in the supply of vaccines to AstraZeneca. It is also worth noting that, at the beginning of 2021, the interest in vaccination among people in Slovenia was extremely high. However, in the spring of 2021 some members of the European Union temporarily suspended vaccination with AstraZeneca due to cases of post-vaccination side effects, i.e. due to the occurrence of blood clots. Denmark was even the first European country to withdraw astraZenica and Johnson&Johnson from its vaccination strategy for a long time. At that time, there was a first major suspension of vaccination in Slovenia, as people feared they would no longer want to be vaccinated with AstraZeneca, the second vaccine with which they could replace it, at least not in large quantities, but at that time Slovenia did not have it. But only later did we find out why. At the end of December 2020, Slovenia did not order all the possible quantities of vaccines that were then available under agreement with the Commission. Slovenia gave up almost a million additional doses of vaccines. She gave up. It was the decision of the Minister of Health, who was then Mr Janša. Why? Why did Mr. Janša decide that? At that time, Slovenia paid about 1.8 euros for one dose of AstraZeneca. One dose of Pfizer was worth about 12 euros. Simple math. As it appears today, Slovenia has placed all its hopes or, fighting to say, put all the hopes of the Prime Minister in a cheaper vaccine. This proved to be one of the key mistakes that resulted in a low population gap and too unnecessary and in any case tragic deaths. But in order not to forget – the Prime Minister said at a hearing before members of the parliamentary commission of inquiry that the one party regime in the past was responsible for the low cross-section in Slovenia. That's his statement. We're so screwed up. The interim report of the Commission of Inquiry identifies a number of other, wrong, illegal and also unconstitutional decisions of this government and its President, which we will be talking about today. The report also very clearly identifies and identifies all those who are politically responsible for the failure to deal with the covida-19 epidemic in Slovenia. The first and most responsible is the President of this government. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members and Members of Parliament, we believe that the interim report of the Commission of Inquiry is more than justifiable. The proposed conclusions and the key findings will be supported unanimously.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Mojca Škrynjar, who will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Greetings, colleagues and all those who accompany us! The content of the chapter is incorrect and misleading. That's because of the following facts. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, led by Prime Minister Janez Janša, has successfully mastered the covida-19 epidemic in its entirety, as evidenced by internationally comparable results. Slovenia is the second best country in the OECD after the economic response to the epidemic, the fifth best country after security and the ninth after sustainable development in the world. GDP growth was 7.4% in the first nine months of 2021 compared to the same period in 2020. We're currently recording 8 percent growth. The unemployment rate is the lowest in Slovenia's history; in December 2021 it was 6.7%, and in the second quarter of 2021 Slovenia has the highest employment rate in the European Union. At the time of the epidemic, the government faced the problem of the lack of health facilities, both hospital beds and medical equipment and personnel, and successfully provided all of this by the time of the 13th century. 3. 2020 and 18. Ten. 2020, including additional hospital non-intense and intensive beds, additional medical equipment and personnel. The government has been monitoring the situation throughout Slovenia, the European Union and the world, following the guidelines of the World Health Organisation and taking appropriate action, and has established a special consultative group to coordinate data sources and advise in accordance with Article 16 of the Law on State Administration. The expert group was composed of top experts in medicine, infectology, epidemiology, mathematics, science, information sciences and had the task of coordinating data sources and advising both in the field of professional resources and in the field of capacity and staff organisation. The Government has provided additional health facilities through additional building and reorganisation of premises. It ensured the acquisition of additional medical equipment, in particular fans and protective masks, gloves and so on. It has provided additional staff to work in connection with the covida-19 epidemic by reorganising staff and additional employment. The government has taken measures aimed at limiting the spread of the epidemic and protecting public health, and measures have been comparable to measures elsewhere in the world and in particular in the European Union. Among them was a measure to restrict the movement to the municipality of permanent residence with justified exceptions, which ensured that the company could operate. The measure was comparatively milder than measures in some European countries or around the world, where movement was limited to a permanent address with some exceptions. Among other things, the government limited the movement after 21 hours, with the exception of the justified exceptions which ensured the functioning of the company, and issued a decree limiting the duration of service activities, some of which completely limited, for example, nightclubs. The government also issued a decree on wearing masks in closed spaces, public spaces and public transport and in public places with high density, such as bus stations. It has entrusted service activities and offices with the disinfection of deadlines. All of this has prevented rapid viral leaps, which were particularly dangerous for all people in their first waves in the absence of vaccines and medicines, especially for those over 65 years. The government regularly monitored the situation in the homes of older citizens. The competent ministry informed the leaders of the homes of older citizens and gave instructions on the organisation of work; the minister himself visited individual DSOs. The government has successfully organised distance learning, and the results now for two years in a row in the form of national knowledge and graduation checks show that the level of knowledge has not deteriorated, on the contrary, the problem has turned into a challenge and schools have been digitised rapidly, teachers have received additional current competences, both in the field of IT and in the field of new teaching approaches. The length of physical closure of schools was on average in the European Union, as is also shown by Unesc's follow-up to education during covid-19. The government has been following the problems and has been preparing measures to mitigate the crisis in the form of intervention legislation, so-called PKP laws, which it has issued ten times. In addition to the legal basis for the temporary and urgent limitation of freedoms and rights in order to limit the spread of the deadly disease, it also addressed the social problems created by the restriction of work. It gave incentives to the economy and therefore did not result in an economic break. On the contrary, there has been an accelerated development. The government regularly communicated with the public through regular daily press conferences with its speaker and the contributions of the head of the section and explained the measures. The ministries communicated with users of the areas they regulate through written notifications. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, which covers the largest number of human trafficking operations, held regular dialogue with representatives of associations of public institutions in addition to districts. The Government acted constitutionally and legally, as the basis for its actions expressed in the decrees was drawn from the Law on Infectious Diseases, adopted in 1995, which was an undeniable and unequivocal basis, since there was no other law in this area. The government fought the epidemic successfully, even though the opposition within the KUL coalition bitterly opposed it at the cost of human life, fomenting so-called civil society protests, some of which were also violent. Unfortunately, not all measures have been taken in the National Assembly to ease the situation. The interim report is based on the expert opinion of Dr. Ivan Ergen, who is in conflict of interest and is therefore unworthy. Dr. Ivan Ergen was at the time of 17. 2. 2014 to 6. 3. 2018 Director of the National Institute for Public Health of the NIJZ and from 20. 3. 2020 to 1. 5. 2020 Acting Director of the NEJZ. Because of this fact, Ivan Eržen cannot objectively assess the functioning of the NEJZ and other institutions, as it cannot be excluded that he will judge subjectively in favour of the activities of the NEJZ and other institutions associated with it at the time he led the NIJZ. The expert group, composed of top scientists from the best of the species overrun by Slovenia, was appointed on the basis of Article 16 of the Law on State Administration and its appointment is in no way contrary to the Law on Infectious Diseases and therefore the claim in the report is incorrect. The expert group did not interfere with the NIJ in any way with its activities. On the contrary, it follows from the testimony of Dr. Beović's expert group leader that the group has cooperated with the NIJ all the time. In particular, it pointed out that the group was involved in both the cessation of the epidemic and in the organisation of health care and in support of the main objective. In this way, the Group has developed expert positions that have been supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. According to Dr Beović's testimony, the Centre for Infectious Diseases and the expert group's opinion were not always in line with the opinions, which the witness considers legitimate. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided on the basis of all views. From the testimony of Dr. Fafangla, it is possible to understand the case of disagreement over the course of schooling, which is understandable, since he is not an expert in this field and thus has shown complete misunderstanding in the teaching process. This is evidence that an epidemic of such dimensions requires a multidisciplinary approach to all professions: medicine, in particular infectology and epidemiology, sciences, security sciences, pedagogical-andragogical sciences, work organisations, transport organisations, information sciences and mathematics, economics, education. It follows that the establishment and operation of the multidisciplinary expert group was more than necessary. From the Commission’s document on medical ethics of the Republic of Slovenia of 29. 5. 2020 can be understood, I quote: "The efforts of the expert group to limit the spread of the epidemic have been in line with applicable, professional and ethical principles. All the measures have been made clear to the public in a transparent and understandable manner. The Commission for Medical Ethics of the Republic of Slovenia wishes to express its respect for the section.” Signed Dr. Bozidar Volch. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, whose responsibility in the covida-19 epidemic is examined by the Main Commission, has taken action; the competent Ministry of the Homes of Older Citizens has regularly cooperated with the leadership of the DSO. However, the problem was that homes for older citizens were mostly long-term and poorly maintained, since in the last decade no funds were allocated to basic maintenance and there were too few cities. Thus, the previously appointed Commission for Medical Ethics in the above-mentioned opinion also stated: “The Commission estimates that the responsible authorities have failed to fulfil their duties despite the warnings of the European Union and have not built a single home for older citizens in ten years.” The appointed Commission also points out the following opinion. On the question of who to provide hospital treatment, the Commission reiterates its view that the age of patients should not be a reason to refuse the necessary treatment. Among the old, health differences are the greatest. The functional state of the affected is decisive. In the event that no health action can improve it any longer, its instrumental maintenance is only an ethically inappropriate torture of the departing, but instead they must be provided with all the necessary palliative care. It's not right if we take dying people to the hospital just to get them to die. Most of them don't want that either. The government has provided additional health facilities through the additional construction and reorganisation of premises, thereby enabling the treatment of significantly more people than it could have used only the capacities left by the government of Marjan Šarc and provided by the state plan for protection and rescue in the event of an epidemic. The latter proved inadequate in the epidemic, which must be taken over by the government of Marjan Šarce. This is also confirmed by the testimony of Dr Bojana Beović, who answered the question about the appropriateness of the national plan to control the epidemic, that they were based on the existing plan in their role, and that the members of the expert group later advised on the improvement of this and were also text reviewers. Hence, it is possible to conclude that the state plan was not in line. Without him, there would be no need to change him. This is how the government adopted the amendment of the national plan for protection and rescue in the event of the epidemic. 7. which was also an appropriate preparation for the second wave of the epidemic. In addition to building new capacities, reorganising staff, preparing medical equipment in the summer of 2020, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has also prepared a starting point for the organisation of education and educational work at all levels, from pre-school education to university education. In view of the abundance of unknowns, it produced several variants of the organisation of work and the criterion was the intensity of the re-emergence. In addition, it published a publication which was received by all educational institutions. The Ministry did the same in the following year, in the summer of 2021, and prepared a set of measures and introduced them to educational institutions. At the time of its establishment, the government faced opposition before it was elected by the National Assembly, showing the first organised protest that took place against the government on 28 February 2020. It is publicly known that the protests then continued weekly, including with the support of the opposition, which contributed to the spread of the epidemic with its support for violating the measures. So a party of Social Democrats – SD called for a school without masses, SD against masks in schools, in the media and social networks. After the first wave, the government prepared additional capacities, reorganised staff and work, prepared measures in the areas of education, business work processes and service activities comparable to other countries in the European Union. Movement restrictions were across the EU. Some were much more strict than in Slovenia, such as Spain, France, and some less, in Scandinavia. The government is unable to detect bad communication with the public. She organized regular press conferences, where the media received all the information that they could then disseminate among people. The public RTV regularly broadcast press conferences on its third channel, so that any citizen with an electrical connection could be informed via TV of the state and instructions regarding the control of the covida-19 epidemic. In addition, the government has developed a website with instructions and measures. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport regularly communicated with kindergartens, schools, universities through their representatives of associations. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Health are not in a position to report the irrational purchase of medical equipment due to inadequate decision-making. This also applies to rapid tests. In accordance with the Public Procurement Act, the Ministry of Health has carried out the procurement procedure perfectly lawfully and correctly, following the professional standards of the World Health Organisation and the guidance of the Section. The World Health Organisation has required an 80 % sensitivity and 95 % specificity standard of rapid antigen test. Sensitivity means the relationship between a positive rapid test and a positive PCR test, which acts as a benchmark for a rapid test. In this case, the PCR test confirms that the positive rapid test results are correct. Specificity means that the PCR test confirms that the negative rapid test was indeed negative. In its opinion, the expert group stated that the specificity of the test was more important than the sensitivity of the test as a guide in determining the procurement of rapid tests, as requested by Health Minister Tomaž Gantar. The National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food, in its report on the verification of the rapid tests that Minister Tomaž Gantar obtained under the contract in the procurement process, selected a supplier of rapid tests by Chinese manufacturer Majbert Pharma Shenzhen, who offered tests that were in line with the tender criteria, and 17. 12. 2020 signed a contract with the selected supplier for the purchase of tests at a price of 905 000 and the supply of glass, when verified, verified samples of the test - found that they met the criteria of the invitation to tender. That's why the new Minister Poklukar is 30. 3. 2021 signed an additional contract for an additional quantity of tests. However, from the Commission's report cited in the title, led by Mr Pavšč, the quoted statement by Dr Metka Paraga that up to 40 per cent of the groups were false negative tests is not true. In view of the credibility of the percentages to be reported by this appointed lady, I also recommend reading or reviewing her testimony. Unfortunately, the second part of the witnessing was not broadcast by television, but it was so much more interesting. But there is a magnetogram, and I suggest you read it. The delivery of rapid tests also proceeded smoothly after the resignation of Minister Gantard, at the time when the provisional administration was taken over by the President of the Government and during the new Minister Janez Poklukar, who signed the additional acquisitions of the same test under contract 30. 3. 2021. Among other things, the National Laboratory has issued a final opinion on these tests and stated that the test reaches the manufacturer’s specification regarding the sensitivity of the test in a group of symptomatic CT subjects up to 30 and is in a group of non-symptomatic subjects as regards specificity. In the final opinion, he said that the test was sufficient to meet the criteria of the national guidelines for the use of rapid tests when it came to the results of independent verifications of sensitivity in the CT group of subjects up to 33, with regard to specificity both in the entire group of subjects and in the symptomatic and non-symptomatic group of subjects. As follows from the report of the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food, the report was prepared by the members of the working group for the verification of prim. Doc. Dr. Irena Grmek Kosnik, doctor of medicine, clinical microbiology specialist, public health specialist, group leader; Dr. Urška Drmota, university microbiologist; mag. Tjaša Johar Čretnik, doctor of medicine, specialist in clinical microbiology; Barbara Zdolšek, doctor of medicine, specialist in clinical microbiology; Dr. Andrej Golle, doctor of medicine, specialist in clinical microbiology; mag. Island Strumbelj, doctor of medicine, specialist in clinical microbiology; Helena Ribič, doctor of medicine, specialist in clinical microbiology. From the above data experts who participated in the preparation of the report of the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food, and in the careful reading of Dr. Metka Paragi's testimony, we can conclude that the product of the said experts is inappropriately more relevant than Dr. Paragi's expert opinion. The unconstitutionality and illegality of the work of the Government cannot be seen, since at the time of the outbreak of covida-19 there was no other legal basis than the Illuminated Diseases Act, adopted in 1995, with the entry into force of 16. 12. 1995. The Constitutional Court, after the end of the worst and most risky period, has assessed the existing law and found non-compliance with the Constitution. Unfortunately, it was too late. This should be done before the outbreak of covida-19 occurs, so that the competent ministry prepares an appropriate legal basis and the National Assembly could discuss it in due time, supplement it, if necessary, and adopts the law. Thus, the Constitutional Court has the task of assessing the constitutionality of legislation in Slovenia in such an important area as safety, health, rights and freedoms of people, has delayed and issued a judgment late when the epidemic was at its peak. When the Constitution of the Law on Infectious Diseases was assessed, the National Assembly could adopt a bill in accordance with the Constitution even before the epidemic was fully enriched. However, since it was not the constitutional interest of the applicants at the time of the constitutional review, if they were to make a proposal under the first measure of the Sharča Government, which closed schools on 13 March 2020, they did so when the epidemic was in full swing, and thus, in fact, contributed to several cited confusions in communication with the public. Unfortunately, not all measures have been taken to mitigate the situation. The view of the European profession was that only an electronic application could solve us before the severe fall wave or the resurgence of the wave, which would alert us to contacts with infections. Some countries that have introduced this have avoided the wave. The application would have allowed Slovenia to avoid a number of measures that had to be implemented, but this was considered by the National Assembly to be a serious breach of human rights. The report also includes conclusions where the first decision is already needlessly exaggerated, since it would be possible for the National Assembly to call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to accede to the drafting of a law which will bring the European Union Directive 2019/1937 into Slovenian law to say in one sentence. The legal order of the Republic of Slovenia already contains the existence of an independent body, namely the Ombudsman, who protects all human rights, and therefore, in terms of the protection of the common rights of whistleblowers, this is already integrated. It does not hold that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to proceed with the preparation of appropriate legislative changes to improve media legislation with the aim of maintaining the current inadequate situation, but to increase media freedom of expression, information and strengthening professional journalism and objective reporting. On public RTV Slovenia we have witnessed unbalanced reporting for most of the time. It has been devoted more time to reporting the content of the protests than to demonstrating the necessity of taking measures and vaccination into account. In Slovenia, media are currently influenced by parties of transition, left parties, including their supporter, a private owner who has 40 radio stations, which is also contrary to the law, so reporting was unobjective in so-called mainstream media such as public RTV Slovenia and also Pop TV with Channel A and private media, so media freedom should be increased. In this way, the conclusion is no. 2 in the report, as it is prepared, completely inadequate and unnecessary. The government publishes the minutes of its meetings and the working bodies it has appointed on its website. They are also public records of municipal councils in works which do not concern the publication of personal data. There is also a public procurement portal that is accessible online to everyone. This is also why Decision No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council lays down the rules of The claim that it is necessary to restore the independence and autonomy of the National Investigation Office is inadequate. There is no evidence that the NPU would be dependent and non-autonomous because it acts in accordance with the law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also provides adequate budgetary resources for the work of state prosecutors and is therefore Decision No. 4 in the report inadequate and unnecessary. The contracts already concluded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia contain a clause on impunity in the field of employees' rights, infringement of the law by black employment or infringement of environmental legislation and therefore Decision No. Five is unnecessary. Undoubtedly, the Court of Auditors is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of public administration, i.e. the acquisition of rapid antigen tests. However, the Court of Auditors is in the role of just drawing up a plan of investigations that it will do. There is no doubt that the subject under consideration by the Main Commission will be examined and that is why Decision No 1/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2009 on the implementation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the The Commission has not disclosed and proved any irregularity in any Article 14. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia or its President, therefore there is no need to call for its resignation and is therefore Decision No. 7 inadequate and unnecessary. There is also no need to send reports to the specialised State Prosecutor's Office because there is no evidence of any suspicion of a crime in the report. Decision No 1/2014/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2014 The report of the Commission shall be drawn up superficially, inaccurately, misleadingly and must therefore be rejected together with all conclusions. The Commission has taken a decision as constituted. And it's mostly made up of members of the opposition. We voted against the interim report and against all the conclusions, because we believe they are inadequate and unworthy. I have also drawn up a separate opinion on my own, which shows the implausibility of this interim report. For all these reasons, of course, the interim report, together with all its conclusions in the Slovenian Democratic Party, will be rejected unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Željko Cigler is next. He will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. At the outset, I would like to say that the Social Democrats will support the interim report of the investigative parliamentary commission with its conclusions. Last but not least, we are convinced by the fact that, practically in their own investigative work, an independent investigative institution such as the Anti-Corruption Commission and the Court of Auditors, which they have already done on the case in question, are practically confirming and substantiating all the conclusions and findings that the interim report of the investigators puts to the plan. Look, the level of chaos, corruption and also the conflict we witnessed during the time of the outgoing government's mandate has been unprecedented since the arms trade. However, after two years of swearing by the current government to respect and respect the constitutional order and to care for the well-being of the population, that is to say health care, it is again worth recalling the handball and the innkeeper logic of action since the outbreak and this government. It is worth repeating and reminding us how they explained that, in narration I speak and quote, “they saved lives”, we got golf, doctors wanted Mercedes, it was talked, then we could even read that some said it was not golf, but south, but then they confirmed that with this equipment they actually got passates. As Social Democrats we have been warning for some time now, this inn logic and approach How will we proceed? We will easily, where there is no need to understand and not to follow the rules, lead to total chaos at the time of the first wave of the epidemic, and corruption too, unfortunately, and people have paid for it with their health and even in large numbers of lives. Excess deaths, as we have learned today, are enormous. As we've already established, you've been politicizing everything else with the epidemic since day one. This is the wrong approach. You've been doing your homework, partying and friendly, and some of them have earned a lot of money. Who, hopefully, will be able to show the investigating authorities. All events have also shown that in Slovenia we will have to ensure the immediate protection of whistleblowers so that domestic politicians can at least shake a little from the non-discrimination which the public in Slovenia has the right to learn. We also believe that the Court's audit of the Court of Auditors, in addition to the fact that it has so far been investigated as an independent investigative institution, will prove the use, correct or incorrect, of public funds. Unfortunately, we fear that many irregularities will be identified here, which will be documented and justified by documentation. It is true that the anti-corruption Commission has already found that one of the ministers has violated the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act when instructing the Director of the Reserves to pay the privileged undertaking in advance for a certain part of the protective equipment. And "nothing" would say in the Balkans, where the current regime is taking us. As I said before, the Social Democrats will confirm the interim report and conclusions. We hope, however, that the consequences of the actions will await you on Sunday, April 24th, when you will have the power to bring down a government that in this way is handling the epidemic situation incorrectly in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Koražija will be presented next in his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u48	Good-bye! Madam President, thank you very much for your words. Initially, I will try to describe in a few sentences how the current 14 governments manage the epidemic. Already in the first wave of the covida-19 virus epidemic, this government reacted markedly poorly. The data show that between May 2020 and January 2021 no primary measures were taken nor in the field of health care as infrastructure. Restrictive measures have been missed and ineffective and have not affected the area where most infections have been transmitted, i.e. to jobs. Despite rigorous measures, such as restrictions on movement to municipalities and curfews, the mobility of the population in the second wave has not decreased. The only thing the government has actually succeeded in reducing is confidence in measures, which has also undermined the fundamental premise on the basis of which it is dealing with epidemics of communicable diseases. In the second and all subsequent waves, after a senseless flight after the first wave, the aircraft followed a very hard and ugly landing on the ground of reality, which exposed everything, regrettably, inefficiency and also incapacity of the ruling suit. This would be best described only in three words: chaos, chaos, chaos. The death toll, the lost trucks, a bunch of useless respirators who landed in hospitals or somewhere else, depending on the suppliers, actually reminds us of the symphony and nepotism of high fevdalism. Later, an inadequate, non-professional and misleading verification of tests, including up to 40% of falsely negative tests, joined in. The government's reactions were increasingly delayed and came much too late, although the professional group for pest control and control of the covida-19 epidemic, as well as the Institute of Joseph Stefan, consistently pointed out the deterioration of the indicators. The expert group set up by the government on its own and, even after its own taste or the Prime Minister, in fact, it had a significant and, unfortunately, important role in the media and chaos that took place in those days, even another wave of the epidemic and then the next wave of the epidemic, since they had in fact repeatedly denied themselves the answers or recommendations. For the worst part, this government from the first wave of the epidemic did not learn a single thing and, unfortunately, it fell again at the correctional exam. The late decisions were followed by panic reactions, illogical measures that served only the dominant-militant movements of some individuals who, in reality, are too bored with life in reality and who are stabbed by dictatorship – prohibitions of collection, curfews, restrictions on movement to statistical regions and restrictions on the supply of goods and services, deprivation of pupils and students to stop the guaranteed right to education. However, when the affected were warned, the government, through a repressive apparatus, unfortunately persecuted them, instead of essentially providing them with human rights protection and the exercise of democracy. To all the conglomerate of decision-making errors, however, the government has added completely inadequate communication, which is another form of this dominant system. Upon reporting, the tracker.org. in actual statistics of these excess deaths, they are experiencing a deviation from the multi-annual average and the latter are the most sad and at the same time the most comprehensive indicator of the direct and indirect consequences of the epidemic in us and in the world. In 2020, there were as many as 3 000 600 excess deaths and in certain months, mortality was even more than 80% higher than usual. This is a reason for very deep and concrete reflection and reflection. In fact, these reasons for inadequate management of the health crisis are complex, but they point to a conscious adjustment of decision-making processes through conscious neglect of the profession, as mentioned earlier, particularly those that disagreed with government decisions. In fact, the Prime Minister does not have a law on communicable diseases and a state plan for protection and rescue; at the outbreak he named his so-called expert group. However, it has also chosen its composition and must therefore be aware that it has assumed subjective and objective responsibility for the management and resolution of the epidemic. At one of the hearings, the Prime Minister stated that the group was without powers and could not take any action. That's what the government did. In fact, the government has taken on the role of a professional decision-maker, which is unacceptable at this time of the epidemic, and has taken on this personal and objective political responsibility for the management or poor management of the epidemic. The Prime Minister also, according to his own arguments, directed the development of a vaccination strategy, as mentioned earlier in the other opinions. When a person from outside followed this event that happened in Slovenia, he felt that it was in fact just him and the only one who made all the decisions, because everyone else was just confirming his thesis and the professional decisions he had in mind or recommended. The entire 14th Government of the Republic of Slovenia together, and in particular its President, is solely responsible for the late reaction and all consequences, including excess deaths. She acted contrary to the law and also to the Constitution when, with her decisions strong, without justification and disproportionately prejudiced fundamental human rights. The protection of whistleblowers, professionals with a high degree of integrity, to whom the grain of money and the praise of great leaders mean nothing, is what we must do after this crisis of leadership, with, of course, an adequate and fair payment in health for those who bear the majority burden, the actual resolution and management of the epidemic. These are nurses, medical brothers, all who are involved in the care of patients or also in the care of patients. Once again, I hope that the official institutions that have already started procedures in their areas will complete them in a timely manner and will have a happy hand in raising mail. In Levica, we will support this interim report, as well as conclusions, and we hope that we will come to some conclusions from this commission, because people do not want to, but also require clear conclusions from this Commission, or that those responsible for mismanagement of the epidemic are politically responsible, both in this case and otherwise.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar Zalar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. The interim report of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the possible political responsibility of the holders of public functions for financially inadequate measures and the suspicion of unjustified restriction of rights in the implementation of measures related to the outbreak of infectious disease covid-19 in the New Slovenia Group of Members – we will not support Christian Democrats. The main argument is a unilateral representation of the facts excluded from the context. At the time of the occurrence of the unknown covida19 virus, the situation was extremely unpredictable and there was little information. The nations around the world have faced a great test. Unlike the previous government, which sees mistakes in response to the epidemic, we did not escape the challenge. On the contrary, we have faced the coming difficult times with a desire to ensure the safety and well-being of citizens and the economy. The new government, which swore on the day after the outbreak was declared, had to face empty warehouses of the security equipment of the Department of Freight Reserves, the lack of emergency medical equipment, breathing appliances, the lack of protective masks of all types, protective gloves and other equipment and insufficient capacity for emergency patients. Despite major problems, we have successfully provided the necessary protective equipment, ventilators for the breathing of patients and additional hospital capacity. The government has taken measures to protect the health of as many people as possible. In doing so, it should be stressed that similar measures have also been taken in other European countries, with the difference that they have been more stringent abroad than we have in both implementation, duration and verification of measures. In addition, attention should have been paid to hospital employment and economic activity when taking measures. Slovenia is an export-oriented economy that must maintain its export potential. We also cannot agree with the expert opinion of Prof. Dr. Ivan Ergen in the parliamentary group. It's supposed to give the expert an unbiased opinion. In view of his past management of the NIJ, where he was acting as director, he should be excluded by professional ethics from making such an opinion. On the contrary, in his subjective opinion, he assessed his past work and the work of his colleagues. The biggest proof of the success of managing the epidemic is the current macroeconomic indicators. In the CAP laws, we have successfully and effectively adopted emergency assistance for pensioners, large families, the economy and other necessary assistance. Support for the economy, the labour market and tourism has proved to be extremely effective. As a result, we have record low unemployment and extremely high economic growth in Slovenia. In view of all of the above, we cannot agree with the proposed report of the Commission of Inquiry in the New Slovenia-Christian Democrats Group and we will not support it because of objectivity and unilaterality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the interim report on the essential findings and on the proposals for conclusions. First, the proposaler Robert Pavšč, or president of the commission of inquiry, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u52	Thank you, Chairman. It is necessary to respond to a few indications, insinuations and so on, as it is entirely expected, no surprise in this search for opportunities and inability to meet responsibilities. In December 2020, this country lost one bus a day, one bus a day. And now to talk about how the country has actually successfully endured this epidemic and to impose some of the hair-related reasons such as the OECD, when this country has deceived the OECD and who has done this research, to refer to security, to sustainable development, to GDP, to unemployment. Where are the people who died here? There's no answer to that. Of course, the mission of the Commission of Inquiry is political, as we find political responsibility. I don't know what you don't understand here. And what is most important, and what has also been rejected by the Legislative and Legal Service in your opinion, is the constant infliction of a conflict of interest between the judicial expert. This cannot be determined by the National Assembly. This was also the only substantive contribution from the coalition members of the Commission in the work of the Commission of Inquiry. The only material contribution. No proposal in the context of preparatory investigations, no comment, no proposal in the evidence conclusions, no comment. The Commission is also a collective body. And even the preparatory actions and the evidentiary conclusions have also been supported by the coalition MPs. Now all of a sudden it's a problem or what?Oh, my God! Uncreditable, completely uncreditable on your part. The only substantive matter you managed was an illegal request for the expulsion of a judicial expert. Of course, then, in your position or in a separate opinion of a Witness who does not like you, you are professionally discrediting. I will not even dissect this report, but please see where you referred in the report to documentation and testimony from the investigative commission. Since only this is relevant, which has been adopted and dealt with in the evidentiary procedure. You refer to as a source of data from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on social networks. That's a very credible source. Not the documentation collected within the commission of inquiry. In recent days, however, we have received some very interesting documentation. On Friday, I withdrew all the levels of data protection from the research he referred to at the hearing of former Minister Gantar, so that it would be very interesting. Let the public see what this government knew in December 2020 but did not react. I'll tell you everything. I'll tell you everything, buddy. How many times have we listened to who is responsible for the epidemic situation in Slovenia: people do not take action. That's what the Prime Minister kept on pointing out. It's the opposition's fault. At the deposition, he even said it was the Communist Party. They're all guilty - except for this government. You know what they say? 97% of respondents to the survey commissioned by the Ministry of Health have taken full account of or taken more account of all measures. However, those 3% said that they did not take into account the measures because they are of a political nature, of a senseless, harmful, of a mindless, of an unconstitutional, of an ineffective, inefficient, non-considerable nature by the government or that the virus does not exist and is a common cold or flu. Those were the reasons. Let's move on. Quite a few things have come together. As for trust and your claim that the government regularly communicated effectively with the measures. During the measurement period in this study, from 21 August to 20 December, the highest degree of confidence in the current government of Janez Janša – do you know how much? 37%. The highest. The lowest is 29%. Some 70% of the people at the time of the epidemic did not trust this government. And that's what this government knew. But if we go by name, by whom people were trusted, or by whom they did not trust. To Mr Gantar, 53% don't trust him, Tini Bregant, then State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, 57% don't trust her, Milan Krek, 67% don't trust him, Jelk Kacin, chief speaker, 72% don't trust him, Simoni Kustec, 73% don't trust her, Janez Janša doesn't trust 76%. You know who he least trusts, but most of the time he's been on TV? Alechu Hoys, 81% of the people didn't trust him. On the other hand, we have experts and among them, according to the most trusted exit of Mario Fafangel, who has twice stepped out of the expert group when he warned of mistakes. He got out twice. Eighty-four percent of the people trusted him. But no, despite her knowledge, the government insisted on communicating with itself. Because you know everything, everything. But when we talk about trust, we talk about respect for measures, we talk about promoting prevention against proliferation, we talk about other safeguards. The government obviously knew that it was not so unmistakable and that in humans, with the vast majority of the trust. And there's something very interesting about this research. Do you know what the last question was? Who do you think is responsible for Slovenia having one of the worst epidemiological images in the world? It's already a polling question to admit that you've failed to manage the epidemic. One of the worst epidemiological images in the world. This is what the government asks its people and at the same time admits and people say back who is most responsible. Government 38%, people in general 56%, policy as a whole 30%, media 18%, expert advisory group 22%, nobody in particular, it's a virus, 17%, opposition 9%, another 3%. So much for what this government knew and what it eventually admitted. If it wasn't for the former minister to complain at a hearing at an investigative committee that these documents were even there, they would never have known about them, they would have been hidden. From this day forward, they are made publicly available to those who want to. So much for clear, public and comprehensible communication with people who have never been trusted. As far as the elderly are concerned, you can relativize this story as much as you want. Remember two key messages from the DSO. When the secretary at the Ministry of Health, also a doctor, Tina Bregant, said: “People who are infected do not show symptoms can work in the homes of older citizens.” In a few days, however, follow messages, messages, tell them what you want, from the government side, that people from the DSO will not be going to hospitals anyway, because they are old and are likely to die so much more. All right, so where's the pie?Oh, my God! Where's some normal attitude to life, respect for life? I'd rather talk about a quick test later, because this is much more important now. It is important that today, at the plenary session of this Chamber, Janša is not guilty because that is what three Members of the Commission think: Mojca Škrinjar, Monika Gregorčič and Tadeja Šuštar Zalar. That's not his fault. I am congratulating, indeed, this bravory argument. Now, on the list of who is responsible for the situation in Slovenia, you can add me, and the court expert, who is such a great thorn in your heel, is a top European and global epidemiology expert, who is, by the way, multidisciplinary. Therefore, there is no need for policy to establish its parallel advisory groups, since the epidemiologist is already acting in exactly the same way in his primary mission - a healthy society, does not treat an individual and takes into account both the economic and social effects of potential measures. But no! I really congratulate you on this bravory argument. You were very convincing, all three, but the facts show the opposite. Everything that is written here in the interim report is based on the evidence that we collected in the investigative committee. There is no reference to any articles in the clouds, from Ukom, social networks, the government, from the opinion of this or that organization. All the documentation collected that you've confirmed, all the evidentiary procedures and evidence that you've confirmed, and the testimony that we've carried out together. You did not object to a single substantive set, except for the conclusion of the work of the Commission, which was adopted by the collective body and approved by the Commission. I have no doubt that the result of the plenary session will be different, but this does not mean anything to me personally. I've seen all the documentation that came to this committee, and the next one we're going to consider at the next point, I've seen a lot of things. And I'm just waiting for the findings of the National Investigation Office by investigating the suspicion of crimes and when the indictments will be legal. Because, believe me, it's going to go very quickly. Only what I have seen is a total validation of crime – crime without any possibility of considering the consequences. It doesn't matter, it's important that you get your Euros, how many people die for it, and how many more, and that doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. I'm supposed to get a word from Željko Brickler, but he's not here. It's Rudy Bear's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Vice President. If we were to twist into one sentence the opinions of the coalition groups heard, then Marjan Sarec is responsible for the epidemic, probably because he did not vaccinate or at least test the population of the country. That's how you can explain it. Because here we hear the claim that Marjan Sarec resigned at the beginning of the epidemic. Marjan Sarec resigned on 27 January 2020. Now I'm asking you what you knew about the cobbler at the time. What did you know about the epidemic? Where was the outbreak in Slovenia, or was it the beginning of the epidemic? None of you, from us, had any idea, and he had no idea what was waiting for us all. You didn't know. But it's just like that with his hand shaken, he gave up at the beginning of the epidemic. That's not true. January 27th. By the time the new government appeared, the government was functioning. 4. 3, so 4 March was the first infection in Slovenia. To say that the government of that time did not act is a complete deception and is simply a pure lie. Once the first infection was detected, the government acted. On 6 March, the Ministry of Health, of course with the authority of the Government, gave clear instructions to the homes of older citizens on how to deal with the spread of the infection or to prevent the spread of the infection. The government then closed the border with Italy and Croatia a few days later, in bitter opposition to the great life-saver, later Economic Minister Počvalska, who was decisively opposed to this measure. I heard that on my own ears because I was at that government meeting. This measure was aimed at preventing the massive introduction of the virus into the country. There were measures involved. On 12 March, the day before the change of government, the Minister of Health announced an outbreak of covida-19 in Slovenia under Article 7 of the Infectious Diseases Act, Article 7. March 12th. There were 96 infections in Slovenia at the time. The Minister of Health has declared the epidemic. Later, when the second epidemic was declared, we will remember how many infections there were and how it got mixed up by the outbreak being declared in another. But the one where you come into total contradiction with yourself is that the plan to control the epidemic at the time of the government of Janez Janša was inadequate. How was it inappropriate, on the other hand, to explain how the government of John Janša was successful in controlling the outbreak in the first wave, and how can we make this possible? On the basis of this plan, which you claim to have been completely inadequate, measures have been taken and are obviously effective. If this plan was so inadequate, why did the government not change it until July 23rd? If it has been so inadequate and so urgent, it should be changed, but action in the first wave on the basis of this plan is still the work of some results. The claim that you have devoted yourself immeasurably to the situation in your homes for older citizens, and this claim is attracted to your hair. Based on data, of course, on data. On 6 March, as I said, the Minister of Health, under the authority of the Government, ordered the closure of the home for older citizens for visitors due to the risk of entering the virus into the homes of older citizens. The measures and instructions followed immediately. They had clear instructions in their homes for older citizens. But nevertheless, we had a picture on May 4th, for example, somewhere at the top of the first wave: 78 dead tenants in homes for older citizens. This was 80% of all deaths due to the epidemic in Slovenia. Only 10 people, residents of senior citizens' homes, died in a hospital. Everyone else in the homes themselves, despite the data from the time that the intensive wards in the hospitals at the peak of the first wave were held at 35%, and most of those who died in the homes for the elderly died in the homes for the elderly, not in the hospitals, not in the homes for the elderly. Of course, that's not surprising. That the attitude of the current authorities to the problem of covida in nursing homes was obviously completely wrong, data now also show, but this is a government message from 27 May 2020, this has been published on the government's website. In doing so, we must face the fact that among the elderly, especially among providers of home for older citizens, there are large people who are slowly running out of life. That's what the government says. Even with them, moving to a hospital just because they are infected with a new coronary virus makes no sense. Yes, of course, with such a doctrine of solving the problem in the homes for the older numbers that I was just talking about, they are not surprised. And then it's glassed, in quotes, and apparently not, a big action to prepare the whole country for the coming second wave. As these preparations flowed, we know what was happening in the second wave, and we know that we do not repeat all the numbers. But it wasn't until October 18th that the outbreak was declared by this government in 726 infections. At the first wave at the beginning of the epidemic, we can't even talk about the wave, at the beginning of the epidemic, the government of Marjana Sharca declared the epidemic less than a hundred infected. 96 infections were reported at the time of the outbreak. Here we listen to a mantra that this government has successfully mastered the epidemic. Yeah, you can't say that! You can relativize a lot of things, but that this government has successfully mastered the epidemic, and you can't say that. And don't talk about economic growth, but I don't know everything else. It's about death. It's about death. Why, at some point in the world summit after death due to covid-19, we are talking about this. That's what we're talking about. Economic growth and everything. Yeah, but what's the price? At what cost? [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, what's the price?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u55	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u56	I've heard of measures to prevent the virus from skipping before. That all the time, there were measures to ensure that the virus did not skip. Yes, he was. The numbers make that clear. And that the expert group set up by the Prime Minister did not interfere with the National Institute for Public Health. Yeah, I'd even believe that she didn't bother him, but politics did interfere with the expert group when you explain how extremely good it was to communicate because the government called a press conference every day. You see, that's actually the heart of this problem. Regular communication does not yet mean good communication. In two, three news broadcasts every day we could hear what the government said, prescribed by the government, and, on the other hand, they did not know or object to the specific measures of this section, but the policy did. And you call that good communication. No, that's the problem. Poor communication, disturbances, noises in communication. There's noise in communications. This, if you put everything together now in one package, has caused us to have an epidemiological picture in Slovenia in the same way and as devastating as we had it. Right now, it's just this. When we heard how immensely good the government and its expertise were preparing for the devastating second wave, as it turned out later, your government speaker, this communicator, made it clear in the end of the summer of 2020 that they had hibernated in one of the shows on public television. Go take a look at this video. No one seemed to worry a lot about what he said at the time, but that was obviously the official position of the government. He probably didn't make that up himself. They hibernated, so they slept, didn't work. As a result, the devastating second wave recognises, significantly recognizes, the outbreak only on October 18th. Because it was also seen that people might not get angry if they were not all on vacation and so on. So it was not primarily about public health, but about all other possible interests. In doing so, all other possible interests were taken into account by the government outside the section that it reacted so late. And then we fell into that other wave. Now you are surprised that the Commission has determined the responsibility of those who have blamed this situation. First of all, it's obvious that the Commission is finding this to be a political responsibility. Yeah, which one? The Commissions of Inquiry shall first and foremost identify political responsibility. Of course, even criminally, these are the powers of the commission of inquiry. But first and foremost, political responsibility. Everything that goes in this direction is then referred to as the political struggle of the opposition, everything that has been found within this commission, is re-relativized and reduced to the obvious about the political struggle. But the facts testify to themselves. The report's just eloquent enough. If you do not see the depth of this message, the Slovenian public can confidently see it. In the LMŠ we will certainly support the proposed conclusions and the essential findings of this Commission of Inquiry because we have been monitoring the work of the Commission. The work of the commission was public, and people were able to form their own opinions in these testimony or unbeliefs.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Next up is Joseph Lenart. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! The Parliamentary Commission, which is trying to determine whether the holders of political functions have done something right or also wrong, or whether they have done even intentionally wrong in the face of the so-called covid crisis, or taken the liberty of citizens unjustifiably. So we have some clues, we have some trial judgements, and some would like convictions. My view is that this government has been monitoring the situation in Slovenia around the covid situation and has followed the situation in the European Union and in the world as well as the World Health Organisation or WHO guidelines. Let’s be realistic — who was successful in fighting the epidemic? I must say such judgments that they are quite subjective, unrealistic, because in fact the Members themselves, who we have adopted here some of the laws proposed by the Government, were sometimes in a dilemma, whether the matter will be taken or not. It is said that everyone, the whole world, the whole European Union, also Slovenia has actually tried to solve, as someone knew, but in accordance with the guidelines of the World Health Organisation. This interim report is more than biased, of course, politically. This is perfectly normal and is also the right of any opposition to try in some way to challenge the quality, success of the government. But I believe that this commission has already been set up in this direction to blur the success as well. If we have somehow come to the point that there have been too many deaths due to the underlying disease, then we must be realistic, but everything was not wrong. It was also responsible for these deaths for carelessness and irresponsibility to the people. Here I have a record of Professor Mir Haček, and I'm going to read it because I think it's terribly up-to-date, and then somehow this guilt that we'd like to hang out with this government will be spread a little bit. It reads: “Unfortunately, we live in a society where individual rights have completely overshadowed the responsibility of the community. A loudly aggressive and not very intelligent minority does not want to understand that their rights are limited to the rights of other people and, of course, they are not unlimited. Everyone has the right not to get vaccinated and get sick and eventually die. However, if dozens of others are at risk, some of whom have long - term consequences and even die, the rights of the individual cease. The right to freedom of choice is limited to the rights of the people around me. And if, despite my choice of non-vaccination, I want to remain a part of society, I have to adopt the rules of this company, with which society wants to protect the vulnerable. For those who are harder to follow the argument, a simple example: the speed limit in the settlement is 50 kilometers per hour, everyone has the right to drive 100, but not to kill someone.” So this was explained by Prof. Dr. Miro Haček. I must say that, to a certain extent, everyone has to agree that we have had experiments and have also introduced examples of good practice and measures, but they have not been caught because of some irresponsible people who have tried, through all possible channels, to actually resist what the government has done just because they have been politically on the other side. Of course, that wasn't right. As far as the number of dead is concerned, we are also in the European Union in the 12th place, which is high, and I must say, I am sad as well, but we are only in the 12th place after the interception. And from this title, there were many more deaths than there might have been if we had made more recommendations for vaccination. The vaccination has been voluntary all the time, and it is now, but I will also touch those who have looked away in some way, when we had a whole bunch of anti-vaccinators outside the parliament, being real activists who have been arguing against people getting vaccinated, and how this will adversely affect all Slovenian citizens. I must also mention that we all know that it is not true that this government would be John Janša, so that the Slovenian Democratic Party can determine its own groups and so on. I don't know why he doesn't call Minister Poklovar and ask him in the face if he was really just the secretary on paper, but also the last one, Gantar, whether all these people were on paper. Yeah, hell, they're doctors! If they are ministers now, they certainly have not forgotten what they know about health ethics, and they cannot forget their expertise overnight. The secretary is a doctor, the head of the advisory group is a doctor, once again, the minister is a doctor. There are many, many, many things to say, some hints on a completely unrealistic basis. We, too, in the SDS Group, fully reject these findings and we cannot support these proposed conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Speaker Robert Pavšič wants the text.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u60	Thank you, Chairman. I don't know if you want to hear it or not. Members did not find excess deaths, fellow Member. The Members did not find excess deaths, but they were called upon to do so. Three thousand 600 excess deaths, which are certainly attributed to indirect and direct ineffective measures. When the profession refers to certainty, there must have been something very wrong, you know. All the arguments are unheard of. And when you were citing an opinion, you were talking about vaccination. And I'll tell you what went wrong with the vaccination. And that's what the government knew. In December, 63% favoured vaccination. But those who didn't want to be vaccinated wanted to -- you know what? Just information. I don't believe a new vaccine until it turns out to be safe. And what did the government do? We are wearing masks from December 2020 to today. So action is still in force today. What did she do? When did the promotion begin with an interpretation, an expert approach? Too late. You know why? Since John (John) Janša himself admitted this at the hearing, he also confirmed that former Minister Gantar had personally ordered a change in the vaccination strategy. He ordered it himself. Apparently John (John) Janša was the best doctor in 2020 because he knew everything about the vaccination strategy. And of course, the bikers will now be guilty. I don't know if you've heard before, the levels of trust in the government in the research that the government had access to, and we've only got it today. The former minister saw a great deal of danger in this state of mistrust and gave up on his own. He also suggested that the government come with an opinion that people would believe him. Now it can only be my speculation. What is it about you that you hold on to authority at all costs? Even for the cost of a bus dead per day. When we talk about millions of euros, one can still accept it. But when we talk about human life, there will be no compromise. There is no argument, no document, no testimony to confirm that the occupation has been successful in managing the epidemic in the second wave. Not one. No, we were listening to you deliver the equipment. What kind of equipment? The masks of toilet paper with elastic rubbers, for which the government later decided that they were prohibited, cannot be used. That was the equipment. But I'd rather not talk about foster care because it's been done, and I'm behind it in a sovereign way, for a criminal act, and that's for the highest authorities. The highest executive powers in this country. The easiest thing to do is take the paper, read something they write you. When I wanted to show you the documents, you voted against it and laughed at how you managed to vote on the possibility of getting acquainted with crime. If you can't see something, then it doesn't exist or what? One book reminds me of the most bloodthirsty animal in this universe that no one really knows what it looks like. You know why not? Because she's so stupid that she's convinced that if you don't see her, she doesn't see you either. And once you see her, it's too late.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I can see that this debate is somehow passing the entire title of the commission of inquiry. Perhaps it would be good for the President of the Commission of Inquiry to say something about the inadequate use of public funds and the unjustifiable restriction of freedoms, and to talk about surveys and similar things. There'll be a poll in a month and three days. I suggest that you also concentrate adequately on what you have requested for the commission of inquiry. The word is Mojca the Boxer [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural? Applicant, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u62	You know, Mr. Tanko, we could sit there and debate with me. The surveys were commissioned by the Ministry of Health in December 2020 when we had two ministers there. At first it was Mr Gantar, and then it was John (John) Janša. Given what the data are in these surveys, which are directly linked to everything that the parliamentary commission has investigated, you cannot, as Vice-President, subjectively decide whether, as President of the Commission, I am deleting this debate into waters that are not concerned with the interim report. This study, and this study, three are, all three are in direct relation to the act setting out the parliamentary inquiry, directly, are even part of the legislative investigation act. That's interesting. I'll read your last question one more time. The government is ordering a public opinion survey, in which is the question: Who do you think is responsible for Slovenia having one of the worst epidemiological images in the world? It's a confession that someone realized that they had failed to manage the epidemic. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I would just like to remind you, Mr Proposer, that you have an interim report to establish the actual situation and the possible political responsibilities of the holders of public functions due to the inadequate use of public funds and the unjustified restriction of rights and freedoms over the period from-to. That's what you asked. If you have already requested this, then I would expect you to talk about it in this interim report. Not about the polls, but who ordered the research. The facts, the results should be told. Not about everything else, about those who have no direct connection with the inadequate use of public funds or to unduly or improperly restrict rights and freedoms. The word is Mojca the Boxer. Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]] Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u64	It is obvious, Mr Tanko, that you have not read the interim report. If we read it, we'd know that these polls aren't in the mid-term report because the paperwork didn't come in until later. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I'm just talking to you about what you requested by ordering an investigative commission, and this was determined on your request. I told you what the title of this commission of inquiry says, you can read it again. I would like to hear the debate about these facts about the unjustified use of public funds or inadequate spending and the unjustified restriction of rights and freedoms. This was the theme of your investigative commission, not the polls and who ordered the polls and who conducted them. We don't care about that. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u66	A very selective interpretation of the already title of the Parliamentary Commission: the responsibilities of the holders of public functions in the implementation of measures related to the covida-19 epidemic and the mitigation of its consequences. The implementation of the measures, the mitigation of the consequences, I do not know what the problem is now that we have to take every word that I have said today, in accordance with the parliamentary investigation act and is in line with the interim report. [[…]] I also conclude this debate on my part.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u67	Thank you very much. For the sake of the public, I will read the title: addressing the interim progress report on the parliamentary investigation to determine the actual situation and possible political responsibilities of the holders of public functions in the implementation of the measures related to the COVID-19 epidemic and mitigating its consequences due to the suspicion of inadequate use of public funds and the unjustified restriction of rights and freedoms for the period from 13 March 2020 to the date of the determination of the parliamentary investigation in question and any modification of the applicable legislation governing the State's action in the face of the disease or its consequences. The surveys were not the subject of an inquiry by the parliamentary commission, but mainly of the consequences that I mentioned in the title. We've never heard of it. - Mojca the Boxer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I think that we are all in this room and elsewhere convinced, and we are aware that any excessive death is a tragic loss to Slovenia. That's the first time. Who's to blame, but that's what we've been talking about. Mr Robert Pavšič, no dramatic tenor stake will help to cover up what the report reveals – no numbers, no evidence, nothing you wanted to prove. You just don't have anything. The Commission for Medical Ethics has said that no home has been built in ten years. Homes were inadequate. The fact is that this also helped to make some kind of death too much when the epidemic began to grow. In addition, the Prime Minister, in his testimony and also publicly, said that Mr Pavšič had questioned his vaccination strategy at a time when he was still serving as Minister of Health after Mr Gantar's resignation that he had ordered the vaccine regardless of the price, all the vaccine available. Which vaccine will be given to someone, and the Prime Minister does not decide on it, it is up to the doctors. That's clear. It is bizarre to talk now about some of the surveys that Mr Pavšič now mentions. As people trusted, they also trusted according to how the media reported. In my separate opinion, I have stressed, insisting that the biased reporting was both RTV Slovenia and POP TV and Channel A on the epidemic. That's biased. And if you report biasedly, you can also check your confidence after this biased reporting. This has not been fair and I think the media has a certain degree of responsibility. We haven't talked about this before on this investigative committee. What Mr Rudi Medved said, he did not say anything about empty warehouses. However, he confirms the speculation of Mr Marjan Sarc, who rather risked everything and put everyone on the line just to be elected. He stepped down because he was counting on him to get so many votes that he would have more than 13%. He said he couldn't rule with 13%, and with this Levica he's got with the government. That was really rude, what was done. Then the link made by Mr Rudi Medved and actually connected that economic growth was because there were so many excess deaths. That's a terrible conclusion. That's a terrible conclusion, and that indicates the perversion of the LMŠ party, sorry, to the abomination. And you're talking about communication, and you're communicating in this way, because there were so many deaths, economic growth is also greater. Please, that's embarrassing what you're saying. I can only say that in a separate opinion everything is written very precisely, much more than I said in my position. I suggest you also read it to everyone who wants it, who also wants to be convinced of all the witnesses. Then you will see the actual challenges of expertise, as well as the relationship between how the work of this Commission was conducted and which we have repeatedly protested by the members of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Replica, Rudy Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I do not know, but I have read this report, one of the few places where this report deals with the motives of the resignation of Marjan Sarc from the post of Prime Minister. I didn't see it coming. Complete analysis of why he gave up, how he gave up. Apparently, you're still speculating that Marjan Sarec was responsible for the epidemic because he gave up. But you say it's a subversive act. I'm surprised you took power after him. It's an unusual qualification for this act. As for the integration of some indicators, including economic growth and death, this is a complete insinuation of how you have turned my words. I am talking to you about boasting that the government has been extremely successful in controlling the epidemic, while at the same time mentioning the data that with the basic indicator of the epidemic, these are deaths, they have no connection, and then I ask the question that, of course, a whole bunch of indicators between this epidemic are beneficial, but at what cost. That's what I said. Of course, you turn this around just to attack again and try to discredit anyone from the opposition who comes forward in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u71	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate, in which the president of the proposaler, Robert Pavšič, gets the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u72	Thank you. In fact, I expected at least those in the hall to read the report. It is obvious, however, that I have read it myself and professional services, and also one of the professional colleagues who participated in the process of producing this interim report. And you had the opportunity to propose one of your own. You didn't take advantage of this option. You did not even want to participate in the creation of this interim report, except then in the end with some hair-attracted amendments, conclusions, references to data that are not even in the files of the commission of inquiry. You know, that's not how it works. The Commission of Inquiry is very serious work. He has a number of documents to base, and he needs to do his work properly. I am convinced that we have done it very correctly, carried out preparatory investigations, carried out evidentiary conclusions and in a methodological and legal manner reached an interim report. But if you want the facts – do you know when the planes flew through Parliament? 1 June. As early as June 16th, warnings came from the Institute of Joseph Stefan that an effective R, a reproductive factor, had grown above 1, meaning a very strong signal that something was cooking, something was happening. It's already 23. 6. The Institute of Joseph Stefan warned us of the threat of another wave. Within fourteen days, the rate of spread of the virus among the population increased to 2.4. What about the government's responses? They weren't there until October 18th. And we're going to August to skip one piece - it's all in the report. On 13 August, a warning came that the epidemic was on the rise with a doubling of about 15 days. Thus, every 15 days, the number of infected is doubled, meaning that the release of measures is no longer meaningful. The government has not changed anything; it has insisted on the measures already taken. This was done, very selectively, of course, so that the swimming pools on Krk could be cleaned so that security services at the borders could be checked. Just so we don't deal with what we should be dealing with. It was a confession that the second wave was underestimating that someone was hibernating over the summer, which we have heard today. Someone slept over the summer. The Minister of Economy even acknowledged that the measures had been missed. The former Minister of Economy and the current Minister of Economy acknowledged this. We have not heard it on this committee, but we would be very happy to hear it on the Commission, which we will consider at the next item on the agenda, but it will probably not be such an easy process either. What's interesting is what was known, what was expected, what was going on, what we didn't have, and what happened. If the policy has taken action, then there is a very clear political responsibility here. Therefore, in accordance with the Law on the Designation of Parliamentary Investigations, we propose a possible amendment to the legislation in force governing the State's action in the face of an epidemic of communicable disease or its consequences. And that's obviously unacceptable to you. I will read to you all the conclusions that we are proposing as a commission and on which we will vote on Wednesday. We propose eight conclusions. First conclusion: The National Assembly calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in cooperation with the professional stakeholders, to proceed immediately with the drafting of a bill that will transpose the European Directive into Slovenian law. The proposal for a law must provide the whistle-blowers with adequate comprehensive protection. At the same time, the National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to consider the possibility of establishing an independent body responsible for the supervision and enforcement of legislation governing the reporting of irregularities.” What is wrong with this conclusion is unclear to me. It is not necessary for you because someone who says that something is wrong is being discredited or even fired at the moment — which was stated in the testimony — and someone from your client is being named. Second conclusion: The National Assembly calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to approach the preparation of appropriate legislative changes to improve media law and the Radio Television Act of Slovenia, with a view to maintaining freedom of expression, information and strengthening independent journalism. Legislation must provide journalists with adequate protection against undue pressure. At the time of the epidemic, we witnessed these illicit pressures, the discreditation of the public media house every day. In the sense of a credible transmission of information, this must also be ensured by marriage, as it seems obvious that we will not go to any moral level. If I return to a degree of trust, it's also very interesting to find out what they knew about in the government. Ah, yeah, you know, there's so much already, it's kind of hard to find and find very quickly. Trust the media. 57%, or I don't know what the NIZ works for the media, 57% trusted in the NIZ, 56% trusted TV broadcasts on the RTV, 51% trusted the Internet site, the RTV Multimedia Centre, 50% on Pop TV and Channel A, 49% 24 hours.com, 46% on the COVID-19 tracker, 36% on Siol, and 30% on Ukom. So those who should be most credible achieved only 30% in the trust population. If it's not an alarm, but obviously it's not, and if there's no need for any legislative correction, fine, because you're going to vote against it, probably against it. Third conclusion: The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to examine the need to amend legislation on access to information of a public nature in order to ensure greater transparency of public law. Legal changes should oblige public law persons to provide information on their own initiative in a consistent manner. Therefore, this should be published proactively and, once the business is completed, publish everything, including what has been marked by some degree of secrecy in the process. Fourth conclusion: The National Assembly calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the shortcomings identified, to prepare appropriate legislative changes to improve the effectiveness of preventing corruption and prosecution of crime and to restore the independence and autonomy of the National Investigation Office. The National Assembly also calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to refrain from the selective appointment of state prosecutors and to provide adequate budgetary resources for their operation. This is essentially just a request from the Government to allow the third branch of power to function. And this will probably be a problem, because the NPU is more independent, and we see from another investigative committee that this is not the case at all. Fifth Decision: The National Assembly calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to avoid conflicts of interest and not to deal with legal entities whose members of the management and control bodies are in the pre-trial or criminal proceedings for economic crime. That should be self-evident. And there's obviously gonna be a problem here, too. Sixth conclusion: The Commission proposes that the National Assembly, on the basis of the Law on the Court of Auditors, propose to the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia to revise the purchase of rapid antigen tests during the outbreak of infectious covid-19 disease. If the Court of Auditors has reviewed the purchase of protective equipment, I do not see any difficulty in proposing to the Court of Auditors, in accordance with its powers, to carry out an audit also because it is likely that the decision will be faster than the decision of the National Investigation Office investigating the suspicion of a crime here in this particular area. But I'm sure there'll be concerns here as well. 7th Decision: The National Assembly calls upon all members of the 14th Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in which the Commission of Inquiry has disclosed and has demonstrated subjective or objective responsibility for irregularities to withdraw immediately from the post of Minister or Minister, including the President of the Government. That's what's gonna happen, if not sooner, after the election. At least one symbolic decision could be taken and those responsible could be called upon to accept their responsibility. Finally, the 8th conclusion: The National Assembly will forward all the documentation collected under this parliamentary inquiry to the Police, the State Prosecutor's Office, the Court of Auditors and the Anti-Corruption Commission. The National Assembly expects appropriate action from the chairpersons of all these institutions. This would also be expected from these institutions to respond and explore what is necessary research. Otherwise, not as President of the Commission, not on behalf of the Commission, but on my own behalf, I have indicated quite a few suspicions of crimes to the Public Prosecutor's Office, who is now watching over them. I see that there have been some positive reactions, and this is in fact to encourage that, in addition to the political responsibility identified by this Commission, all other suspicions are resolved, confirmed, rejected or obsolete, as was the proposal in the National Assembly. I am sure that the Commission has done its work from the time of its establishment to the issuance of this interim report very correctly, regardless of what coalition Members think about foreign leadership and I do not know what else. People could have made an impression on themselves, regardless of the tenor cartridges or the lack of yogurt. Yeah, if you started it, you'd listen. You're the one who's in charge of this subject. However, the conclusion is that this government, together with all ministers and with the Prime Minister, is responsible for inadequate, ineffective measures that have caused not only financial damage but also damage that cannot be measured. The work of the Commission has certainly not yet been completed. In just a few weeks, we will continue the hearing and explore further matters that were open and that we initially assumed only, and according to the documentation gathered, I can already find that the suspicions have been confirmed, some even proved. But because these suspicions are dealt with and spoken in the National Assembly, they lose their credibility. Therefore, they are also committed to other competent authorities. At the very least, the outcome of this interim report should be to raise confidence in the executive branch, to know the authorities in the legislation and to the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I have also taken a little look at these conclusions, and I have also listened, and no decision relates to the inadequate use of public funds and to the unjustified restriction of freedoms, what you had in the title or in the act setting out the parliamentary inquiry. I would, however, if you were already making such conclusions and doubtingly continue to rely on the conclusions you have in the report. That's not on the report. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I see there is no desire to discuss it, so I conclude it. No amendments to the proposals were tabled. I note that the National Assembly took note of the Interim Report on the course of the parliamentary investigation to establish the actual situation and possible political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the implementation of the measures related to the COVID-19 epidemic and the mitigation of its consequences, due to the suspicion of inadequate use of public funds and the unjustified restriction of rights and freedoms for the period from 13 March 2020 to the date of the decision of the parliamentary investigation in question and the possible modification of the applicable legislation governing the State's action in the face of the disease epidemic or its consequences. The assembly will decide on the essential findings and on the proposals for decisions on Wednesday, 23 March, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 38. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS TO CONDUCT THE INTERMEDIATE REPORT ON THE PARAMENTAL INVESTIGATION OF THE INVESTIGATION COMMISSION ON THE PROVIDING OF THE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT AND THE MEASURES OF THE INSTITUTIONS AND THE CARRIAGES OF THE PUBLIC FUNCTIONS FOR THE PROVIDING OF THE DISEASE OF MANAGEMENT 2. 2020 TO DEFINITE THE PREVIOUS PARAMENTAL INVESTIGATION The interim report was submitted to the Council for consideration by the Investigative Commission on the provision of protective equipment and measures by institutions and public function holders to combat the spread of COVID-19 disease from 1 February 2020 to the determination of the parliamentary investigation in question. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, President of the Commission of Inquiry, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u74	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, welcome! On 14 July 2020, the National Assembly ordered a parliamentary inquiry to determine the actual situation and possible political responsibilities of public function holders on the condition, conduct, stocks, procurement, purchases, storage and other means of obtaining or possessing personal protective and critical medical equipment for the effective prevention of infections with communicable diseases and the functioning of institutions and public function holders in connection with the timely suppression of the COVID-19 epidemic and the suspicion of abandonment of appropriate measures related to the timely eradication of the COVID-19 epidemic for the period of 1 July 2020. 2. 2020 until the purpose of the parliamentary inquiry in question. I became President of this Commission of Inquiry myself on 17 December 2020. The purpose and scope of the parliamentary investigation are defined in the request of the Group of Members and Members for the purpose of determining the parliamentary investigation and in the Act of the National Assembly on the appointment of a parliamentary inquiry, which we have also followed in the work of the Commission of Inquiry. The Commission of Inquiry shall be held at 16. 3. 2021 decided, by way of evidence, that, with a view to ensuring a more transparent and more detailed investigation, the work of the parliamentary commission of inquiry would be reasonably divided into two parts. The first part is to identify the facts and circumstances before the outbreak is declared on 12. 3. 2020, and the second part is to identify the facts and circumstances after the outbreak has been declared by the date of the determination of the parliamentary investigation in question. In the first part, the Commission thus focused on points 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the act on the determination of the parliamentary inquiry in question, i.e. on the first four of the total five points. The interim report we are considering today refers to the first part of the Commission of Inquiry. The Commission of Inquiry heard 19 witnesses at the time who held key functions in health and other institutions, ministries and the director of Sova and the then Prime Minister. In the second point of the interim report, the Commission examined the evolution of the epidemic and the decisions of the competent authorities as such stem from the Commission's available documentation. Thus it is evident that at the time of the emergence of the new Coronavirus at NIJ, they were initially informed through the EVRS system 31. 12. 2019 and that the government had two scenarios for how to react in the event of a mass outbreak. The government shall report to the public after the 62nd regular meeting of 27. 2. 2020 states: "In the event of a mass outbreak, which means a complex crisis, the coordination will be taken over by the Secretariat of the National Security Council or a state plan will be activated to regulate measures in the event of an epidemic of communicable diseases." Despite a hearing by the then Prime Minister, the Commission has not been able to identify the advantages of the individual plan, but we have found that Prime Minister Marjan Sarec has not read the national plan for protection and rescue in the event of an epidemic or pandemic of communicable disease in humans. In view of the inevitability of the government’s subsequent epidemic, led by Marjan Sarca, the Commission of Inquiry has also announced that Mr Marjan Sarec has abandoned the long-term care of people with a lack of awareness of the State’s plan to protect and solve the outbreak or pandemic of infectious diseases. The Investigative Commission found that public health establishments were faced with market disturbances in the supply of protective equipment as early as January 2020 or no later than February 2020. In doing so, the Investigative Commission notes that the rapid growth of the new Coronavirus, the failure of the health system to prepare for an epidemic of this type, and the difficulties in the supply of personal protective equipment on the market, as a result of insufficient resources to deal with the epidemic of this magnitude, have marked public health and access to the quality of life of people. The Investigative Commission found that the stocks of protective equipment had a significant impact on the preparation of the epidemic, as indicated in point 4 of the report, in which we described the state of stocks of protective equipment. Most hospitals had major problems in the supply of protective equipment. They also had their own small stores of protective equipment. One of the reasons for the smaller stocks of protective equipment, according to the statements of the witnesses interviewed, can also be found in the guidelines of the higher liquidity recovery programme, which has planned to provide for smaller stocks, which in the event of an epidemic has proved to be extremely weak, but despite the fact that it is not possible to exclude the objective responsibility of the 13th government, which should detect and act decisively against disturbances on the market. It's not. 13. The government has not been effective in taking measures and providing sufficient supplies of protective equipment, as the government has delayed and introduced them later than other members of the European Union. While Italy announced the exceptional situation as early as 31 January and the health institutions faced a shortage of protective equipment and procurement disruptions in February, the government of Marjana Sarca was only at the end of February 27th. 2. 2020, at its 62nd regular meeting, confirmed the release of the reserves and adopted a decision to replace the missing stocks by 31. 12. 2020. Yeah, you heard right. It was concluded that the missing stocks would be replaced by 31. 12. 2020. The Commission of Inquiry found that the deadline for replacing stocks in view of the general lack of protective equipment was significantly too long, which was also confirmed at the hearing by Mr Aleš Šabeder, then Minister of Health. With regard to the supply of protective equipment, the Commission of Inquiry found that, due to the widespread lack of market protection equipment, which the majority of the European Union countries faced, centralisation of procurement was crucial to the resolution of the crisis. 13. The government, through its approach, based on the belief that hospitals themselves will be able to provide protective equipment, has objectively contributed to the almost zero supply of protective equipment and the potential threat to Slovenia’s national security. The Commission of Inquiry found that the 13th government is 13. 2. 2020 China shipped the aid in the form of 1.2 million protection masks, despite the already well-known fact that we are facing disruptions in the supply of protective masks and that they were already lacking in Slovenia at the time. Although the masks were donated by the company as an invitation from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as official humanitarian aid. But there was no similar call for donations for the purposes of Slovenia at the time, as the then Prime Minister Mr Marjan Sarec felt that Slovenian hospitals should help themselves. The Investigative Commission also found that the Slovenian Government at the time underestimated the risk of spreading the coronary virus and misjudged the need for protective equipment and that during the coming health crisis it was in conflict with doctors and health workers, which had a negative impact on confidence in the effectiveness of the government's health response. The interim report was adopted at its 5th urgent meeting, on 24. 2. 2022 by 4 votes to 2 with 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u75	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. The position of the Group will in particular be presented by the mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear fellows and fellows, a very nice greeting! Not so long ago, in our and foreign media, we were able to read about tons of lost equipment, overpaid orders, millions of remittances, which were never followed by the ordered goods, about sending planes with suitcases of money to China. The whole world was facing acquisition problems and was a prisoner of the market for protective equipment that broke under the weight of the pandemic. These are the circumstances in which the 14th government, the government of Janez Janša, was faced at the very beginning and in which it was forced to ensure the safety of its citizens by getting protective equipment as quickly as possible. We must be aware that none of us, any of us, has been prepared for this epidemic. The whole world was hunting, one more, the other less successful. At the same time, the virus dictated the pace, and we were concerned about what was happening in neighbouring countries. For Slovenia, a particular problem was the 10-year-old chaos in the organisation of the health system. For the i-point, the new government was outside the door of empty warehouses without protective equipment and with citizens who were in fear and panic. These were times when we had to act quickly, not tomorrow, but immediately, even though we should have done it yesterday. It is a fact, and this is also noted by the Commission of Inquiry, that public health establishments did not have sufficient resources to deal with an epidemic of this magnitude. At that time, the Ministry of Health, under the leadership of Minister Šabedr, first initiated a procedure to verify the state of stocks of protective equipment at the end of January, while the collection of data on the needs and state of the protective equipment for healthcare providers only started on 3 February 2020. On the same day, the Minister of Health estimated that the supply of protective equipment at hospitals in Slovenia was sufficient, and the Ministry was informed from the very beginning of the hospitals and other institutions and organisations that problems were encountered with the purchase of supplies of protective equipment, which the hospitals and institutions had been trying to obtain on their own. We cannot deny the fact that by their approach, based on the belief that hospitals themselves will be able to provide protective equipment, the responsible have contributed to almost zero stocks of protective equipment in state warehouses. As early as February 25th, when a state of emergency had already been declared in Europe, the Slovenian media wondered why, in the current lack of protective equipment in the health institutions of the Department of Stocks and Stocks, the security equipment would not be released. The fact that the 13th Government of the Republic of Slovenia was on its way out, to which Prime Minister Marjan Sarec repeatedly referred, does not burden the objective responsibility of solving the health crisis. He's only passed the 13th. 3. 2020, and he has already issued a resignation statement of 27. 1. 2020. It is also evident from the documentation. that the Government, or the Ministry of Health, by means of protective measures, has delayed and subsequently introduced them as other members of the European Union. For example, Italy has already declared a state of emergency on 31 January 2020. It is undeniable that individuals have underestimated the risk of spreading the coronary virus. More. At the hearing, the former Prime Minister showed a strong lack of knowledge of the State's plan for protection and rescue in the event of an epidemic or pandemic of communicable diseases in humans. Asked whether he had read the report, he replied that he was not the Minister of Health, which, given the inevitability of the outbreak at that time, is an inadequate counter-argument in our opinion. The former Minister of Health, Aleš Šabeder, declared the epidemic exactly the day Marjan Sarec, the Prime Minister, said goodbye and left behind empty warehouses without any plan to supplement the stocks. It's hard to say it's a coincidence of events and dates. But we can say that he really said good-bye in style, in the style of the person who throws the rifle into the corn, leaves people alone and wants to go voter in time of the greatest fear. However, the current government has not been intimidated by the challenge. The rapid increase in covid-19 infections required us to act even faster. We are aware that errors have been made in the procurement process of protective equipment, but it should be borne in mind that today we are assessing the state of which we had very little information at the beginning of 2020. However, the final objective of supplying the appropriate quantity of protective equipment was achieved. This is also due to those who helped organize and deliver protective equipment in Slovenia. Thanks to them too, the health system has endured severe pressure that other, important to the country, systems can function. And if I keep going. Of course, it's the easiest thing to be a general after a battle. But those of you who left the covida virus on 13 March 2020 with the performance of the government of Janez Janša, do you have the right to judge how the crisis situation was resolved? From today's point of view, with the current knowledge of covid-19, we cannot judge the sudden decisions whose main objective in the fight against the epidemic was to prevent human casualties. However, we can condemn the lack of decision-making and passivity in the design of measures necessary to preserve public health, as indicated by the findings of this Commission of Inquiry. Today, at least partially ends the saga, which has been used so much time to collect the political points of the current opposition, which is ironic in view of the findings of the investigative commission in question. At a time when we can hope that the Coronavirus epidemic will soon be a thing of the past, it is our desire to leave behind political arguments and not look left and not right, but just forward. In the Group of Members, we will in particular support the decision and the interim report on the parliamentary inquiry carried out.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! The arrival of a relatively unknown coronavirus in the first months of 2020 marked China, where the virus originated, as well as Europe, Slovenia and the whole world. The virus of the new coronary disease first appeared in December 2019 in Vuhan, the capital of Hubei Province in central China and then spread around the world. A month later, the World Health Organization is 30 days old. 1. 2020 has declared a global public health threat due to the spread of a relatively little known coronavirus at that time. In Europe, the first case of covido-19 infection was detected on 24 January 2020 in France. As can be seen from the interim report of the Commission of Inquiry, individual European countries responded at different rates to covida-19 disease. Slovenia neighbouring Italy has already declared a state of emergency on 31 January 2020. On 28 January 2020, the Croatian Presidency of the Council of the European Union decided to activate the first stage of an integrated political crisis response, the so-called ICPD, the exchange of information and then on 5 March 2020 declared a threat to the epidemic. Austria issued a regulation implementing the epidemic law on 29 February 2020 and Slovenia declared the epidemic on 12 March 2020. On 24 February 2022, the Commission of Inquiry on the provision of protective equipment and measures by institutions of public functions to combat the spread of disease COVID-19 from 1 February 2020 to the determination of the parliamentary investigation in question adopted an interim report at its fifth emergency meeting, identifying the actual state of stocks of protective equipment and the possible political responsibility of members of the 13th Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Commission of Inquiry decided, in accordance with the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and taking into account the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, to divide the investigation into two substantively separate works, namely, that it will focus in the first part on the determination of the facts, as set out in the first four points of the Parliamentary Investigation Act, from 1 February 2020 to the proclamation of the epidemic on 12 March 2020, and in the second part on the 5th section of the Parliamentary Investigation Act. With the rapid spread of the virus, countries are forced to limit the rate of spread of the virus and to ensure the safety of health personnel and consequently the most vulnerable groups, to provide sufficient protective equipment, which in times of global disturbances in the protection equipment market poses major challenges. As we know, due to the lack of adequate safeguards in both China and Italy, a large number of health personnel have been infected and, as the Commission of Inquiry has determined, a sufficient supply of equipment protection was insufficient to manage the epidemic. There were 3 000 210 masks of FFP3, 76 000 700 disinfectant of various surgical masks, a million 725 thousand 190 different types of gloves, 3 000 630 suits and 4 thousand 900 kilograms of disinfectant in different packages, according to a hearing by the current Prime Minister Janez Janš eight hours ago. The reason for the insufficient supply of protective equipment should also be sought in order to leave the purchase to individual hospitals which have already begun to experience supply difficulties in the month of January. In the SDS we are convinced that without the centralisation of procurement, as has been done by the 14th government, Slovenia would not be able to provide sufficient protective equipment to control the epidemic and prevent the further spread of the coronavirus. This was also found by the Commission of Inquiry by hearing hospital directors who, inter alia, confessed that without the aid of the State, they would not be able to provide sufficient protective equipment for their employees. The fact that doctors at the time of the visible representatives of the Medical Chamber accused the spread of panic in fear of the virus was also highlighted, that some hospitals had to remove their makeup from the hospitals and infect themselves, making certain masks necessary even to lock some hospitals in closets. The Investigative Commission devoted much of its work to reviewing the events that marked the preparation of the epidemic and, in the course of the investigation, interviewed 19 witnesses who held key posts in both public health institutions, the then Minister of Health and the then Prime Minister of the Government during the period from 1 February 2020 to 12 March 2020. [[Incomprehensible]] During the findings, the fact that Health Minister Aleš Šabeder had pointed out that the deadline for replenishing the supplies of protective equipment set by the Government of Marjana Šarca on 31 December 2020 was considerably too long. However, he was overheard of in his warnings. It is also alarmingly noted that the then Prime Minister has not been sufficiently involved in preparing for the epidemic, nor has he read the national plan for protection and rescue in the event of an epidemic or pandemic of communicable diseases in humans. The then government, led by Marjan Sarca, has done virtually nothing to secure the necessary protective equipment. They left all the supplies to the hospital management. The very lack of protective equipment and the failure to take appropriate measures resulted in the first infections occurring in healthcare facilities and nursing homes. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will also unanimously support the interim report of the Commission of Inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc will be presented by Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u80	The present investigative commission and the present mid-term opinion is one of the most politically reversed structures for concealing complete incompetence, customerism and corruption. While people were dying, Janša’s elite was rich on the basis of extending waiting lines, at the expense of restricting access to health, at the expense of the health of the people who will now pay the tax for your work. The epidemic for the ruling was not a health challenge, but a business opportunity. And this commission is a way of concealing, hiding, or even deceiving the actual situation in order to wash ourselves. Despite the headship and politicisation of the police, the judiciary and the prosecutions, I know and demand that all the perpetrators of this crime be investigated, examined and convicted. You have an opportunity to demonstrate your sincere intentions for the full transparency of the crown event today, or you will also have Members and Members on Wednesday. As a member of the Commission and as a Member, I propose a decision allowing the public to see all the documentation collected by the Commission of Inquiry, which is able to generate its own opinion. Enough hiding, hiding, lying. We have evidence on the committee for everything. Even for the embezzlement of documents, including for the illegal state funding of private companies, including for the lying of the highest public and business function holders. Nothing. The other way around. The Chair of the SDS Commission shall actively obstruct and prevent the investigation and the implementation of such evidence. The public cannot reach them under cover of secrecy and data protection, instead of protecting the truth and justice. The act determining the parliamentary investigation of the provision of protective equipment and the measures taken by the institutions of public functions to combat the spread of covid-19 disease was adopted in the National Assembly on 14 July 2020. During all this time, a year and a half, the focus of the work of the entire commission was focused solely on investigating the period between 1 February and 12 March 2020, where, of course, the President also selectively guided the investigation into the further prepared political positions to overturn and incriminate the 13th Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the government of Marjan Sarca, and resolved all responsibilities of the 14th Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the government of Janez (Ivana) Janša. In doing so, the President consciously and actively neglected, prevented the hearing of key witnesses, and thus, in the interim report we are considering to the National Assembly, i.e. to fellow Members and Members, provided us with extremely distorted findings, which in the evidentiary process have not received any comprehensive treatment. The conclusions of the interim report of the Commission are thus only a complete design. This product is due to extreme superficiality, selectivity even of amateurism. As such, like any commission of inquiry in this reference to Parliament, it casts a bad light on the other commissions and dismisses Parliament as an institution. How is it possible to conclude anything if not a single key witness has been heard and the key documentation neglected, despite the fact that we have accepted completed, of course, by the opposition members of the commission, the conclusions on preparatory actions and that the opposition Members have requested that certain evidence be carried out in accordance with the Rules of Procedure already on 17 March 2021? In a year this commission, this President of this evidence has not been able to carry out. In doing so, it prevented the Commission from working in a credible manner, preventing the work of the Commission. The argument that the Commission is bound by a decision on the first review of the period from 1 February to 12 March, even in the light of the last decision, does not hold any judgment, since the Minister under whom the Department of Freight Reserves is the same person, whom we are and will be hearing a great deal today and who is supposed to provide personal protective equipment. So we should at least listen to this person for a comprehensive picture – Drażka Restovalska. An additional justification for this hearing is also the Court of Auditors' report, we have it in the documentation, as well as the Commission's current finding to prevent corruption, which, in the course of investigations involving the purchase of security equipment by the supplier GenePlanet, which is also to be investigated by this Commission, found a breach of integrity. Political responsibility. Abusus non est usus, sed corruptela do you know what that means? Abuse isn't a use, it's a corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. If this ellipse were the temple of democracy, as some would like to call it, if Slovenian politics were a public use of the mind, then you would have one investigative commission and, as a rule, in constitutional parliamentary democracy, you are not investigating yourself. But when we have a story this day, when most Members are absent, when I first think of a familiar phrase from the novel of Nooteboom Rituali: Each witness lies his own truth. Pika. We know the story of how this committee got here. The new coalition has overtaken the opposition, and so on and so forth, and here was a more question of how this will happen. The speaker in front of me said that we had also proposed some conclusions that the story would still preserve the face of what the investigative commissions would be, but the fact is that this was not the case. Either way, we're turning the virus from 12 to 13, or if you want, on the 13th night of that unfortunate Friday two years ago and just a little, 10 days ago, it didn't mutate significantly, it didn't substantially change its aggregate state. There's been a lot of talk here, and there's a lot of chatter about these supply reserves, about how the cargo reserves under Sharc were empty. I'm not a lawyer, not a Sharca, not a Janša. He knows what the commission of inquiry is doing. If something like this had happened to us in the first half of Janša’s first government, we would have been horrified to find that there was zero protective equipment in the supply reserves at the time. Go look at my parliamentary question when I wanted to have data from 2000 on how much protective equipment there was, and they said that by 2006, there was nothing, then it was, now I don't know whether I paraphrased Janša or not, for 8 hours or 10 hours, depending on the virus, then something small got in the wake of the refugee crisis 2015 and then there was again some messery for some non-excessive healthcare home. That's a fact. The fact is also that networks of Slovenian hospitals, secondary hospitals and tertiarys have shown, in a book-keeping manner, that smaller losses are also with smaller stocks. This is also a fact that we somehow inherited. It is also a fact that our legislation, like that of most European countries, has been obsolete. The fact was, it was somehow underestimated. As I finally presided over that difficult, always difficult, Health Committee, I can say that, if we look back now, the Sharchev government has slightly underestimated what awaits us, like the vast majority of other European governments. When the information came somehow also due to Slovenian health workers operating abroad, at the end of January, early in February, as the matter was serious, things began to take place in the right way. There's a fundamental difference, because you all kind of get caught up and not just talk about one piece, you talk about both governments, and in the time of the 13th government, as chairman of the committee, I didn't allow this to be cheaply politicized. You know, we had that famous last serious session of the 25th. 2. We have called on it to be chaired and co-chaired by the Committee. With regard to each point in the time of the Sharča government in the field of health, I have also consulted Bojana from the SD, Ivi from NSI, with someone else, but others have not somehow been interested. Under this government, we have received a chairman of the committee, who is in the middle of tweeting about KUL losers, who is lying about me, that I am threatening her and the family, sending out some prepared announcements about how the police are going to drag me out of Parliament. That's what you are. And then he says, "That's politics." It's not politics. It's extremely irresponsible. It's primitive. It's arrogant. According to the current data of Covid-19, which was not able to be done by the government, was made by civil society, 6 000 449 died with covid or due to covid. We are almost there when two thirds of Slovene municipalities will have fewer inhabitants. This will require responsibility. Each government responds to this question. We're just gonna have to face it, I'm sorry, it's a monster number for me. This is more than the Municipality of Kungato has inhabitants, that is more than the Municipality of Moravče has inhabitants and you could count quite a few municipalities. After all, I'm a spatial sociologist. Fortunately, the vast majority of citizens and citizens have gained more intelligence and responsibility than the government, which has inherited the 13th government that has gone to abuse this matter. The whistleblower Gale said very well, a quarter of a billion plus left of the Sharcha government would add another quarter billion and turn over half a billion pennies. There Janša also had a nice run at Restovalska, which is probably why he is now running to invoke parliamentary immunity if he is elected when he has to come to the end through some criminal investigation procedures. That's kind of it. We can't fool ourselves that this didn't happen to us. I have given a separate opinion to this phased report by the investigative group, in a jest, I can say that I have no doubt that you have all read it, but I do not know if it has read it from 89 Members, but perhaps both of the two investigators who presided have read it have read it, and then maybe someone else has and is actually the end of it. I personally think, as well as the Social Democrats, that we no longer need investigative commissions on this subject. We need cleansing and rejuvenation if I paraphrase Cankar, the department ministry, we need the prosecution to do what they have to do, we need the judicial branch of power - I agree with some high-level judge who said we call them a third branch, as if they were third or I don't know which round - they play their part, and those who have to answer criminally also answer criminally. Finally, I'd say when you're pulling comparisons up and down. Slovenia is not densely populated. We live pretty scatteredly, and then it's hard to draw comparisons with any neighbouring country that has millions of cities. If you are already looking at Zagreb, the Long Village and so on, you already have a third of Croatia there. I have no illusions, no SDs either, even though there may be a colleague who said that sometimes I didn't say it was a blur, so that we could go through a cobbler without any casualties. If the 14th government were as reasonable as the vast majority of citizens and citizens, these horrendous numbers should be at least half the lower. Each Witness lies about his truth or the outgoing coalition lies about his truth. We will not support the report, but I will probably say something in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Ambassadors will be presented by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u84	Your Honor! Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, this coalition, as well as this government, rather than dealing with solutions or the resolution of this epidemic itself or the underlying crisis itself, is actually dealing with what and who has been doing somewhere within a month and a half, and this is simply because of defending the image of their party president or now the Prime Minister. On the esdees side, we are already used to these blurry maneuvers or have already experienced them in various ways. As for the report itself, of course we will not support it in Levica. We will support Mr Pavšić's conclusion, which he added, and unfortunately we will not support your conclusions. Here's the thing. When this competition came to light, who would first set up a commission dealing with the problems of the epidemic itself or also the acquisition of equipment during this epidemic, it was also a rather distasteful matter from the point of view of citizens and citizens. You know what the role of the opposition and the coalition is. The coalition is not supposed to open or set up such committees at a time when you really need to understand that the opposition is the one who looks under your fingertips or who also controls or examines you in sayings. As a matter of fact, people are not, and they must never be a number. By setting up this commission, it has actually become evident that you want to technically and also statistically cut into the very span of this story, which, once again, is just about how to blur space or how to protect certain actors in these stories. Once again, I will recommend to the government and to the Prime Minister and the coalition, deal with matters that need to be resolved, because unfortunately our proposals from the opposition have not been followed or listened to in most cases to our solutions. We have pretty good solutions, but unfortunately you don't accept them. In such situations, it would be right to listen to the opposition, not just to want and want to be right, but often not right or wrong for people, but against people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u85	Thank you, too. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u86	Thank you, again, for your word. Today we are discussing the interim report of the Commission of Inquiry on the provision of protective equipment and the measures taken by institutions and public function holders to combat the spread of covid-19 disease from 1 February 2020 to the determination of the parliamentary investigation. First, we conducted a parliamentary investigation for the period from 1. 2. 2020 until the outbreak of covid-19 on 12 March 2020. The Commission of Inquiry found that public health establishments did not have sufficient resources to deal with the epidemic. Due to the large-scale occurrence of coronary infections, health establishments have been forced to increase their stocks, which was an extremely difficult task due to the lack of equipment on the world market. As a result of the orientations of the recovery programme to ensure greater liquidity of health institutions, stocks were expected to be lower. In the event of an epidemic, this was a major weakness, since we all witnessed the situation that occurred during the search for protective equipment when hospitals were unable to reach it. However, this does not exclude the objective responsibilities of the government of Marjan Šarc, who should detect and act decisively against disturbances in the market. Similarly, the previous Government was not effective in taking measures and providing sufficient supplies of protective equipment. The documentation shows that the Government of Marjana Sarca has delayed and introduced them later than other close members of the European Union by means of safeguards. Even though the government was then on its way out, this does not burden objective responsibilities to deal with the health crisis. The then government underestimated the risk of spreading the coronary virus and misjudged the need for protective equipment and put itself in conflict with doctors and health workers, which had a negative impact on the government's trust and effectiveness. The Commission's report also shows that the centralisation of procurement was crucial to the resolution of the crisis due to a general lack of protective equipment on the market. The 13th Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by its approach, based primarily on the belief that the seed hospital will be able to provide protective equipment, has objectively contributed to the almost zero stocks of protective equipment in state warehouses. The government of that time reacted too late, as the lack of protective equipment was apparent as early as January or early February at the latest. Furthermore, the Commission of Inquiry finds that the government of Marjana Sharca is 13. 2. 2020 dispatched China's material aid in the form of 1.2 million protection masks, despite the fact that problems with mask shortages had already been detected at the time, as reflected in the statement by the Director-General of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to protect and rescue Stanislav Lotrič. The Slovenian government then called on Slovenian entrepreneurs to grant equipment as official humanitarian aid for China, but there was no such call for Slovenian hospitals, since the security equipment should have been provided alone, despite the fact that the purchase was already difficult. The Commission of Inquiry shows that the 13th Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at its 62nd regular meeting, confirmed the release of stocks and adopted a decision to replace the missing stocks by 31 December 2020. In view of the general lack of protective equipment, the deadline for replacing stocks was too long, which was also confirmed by the then Minister of Health, Aleš Šabeder. As then Prime Minister, Marjan Sarec did not require a reduction in the time limit for the replacement of protective equipment stocks, thereby subjectively responsible for the slow completion of medical protective equipment stocks. It was only on 11 March 2020 that the government of Marjana Sarca ordered the Ministry of Health to carry out all the activities necessary to obtain the necessary equipment to carry out appropriate protection measures against covid-19 virus. In the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, we believe that the interim report is appropriate and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u87	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the interim report, on the essential findings and on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to the proposal for a decision. The representative of the proposers shall have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u88	Thank you so much for the word. I think it is good that I respond to some of the statements that we have heard here in the presentation of positions. First party left. Let me say that they were not members, they did not have a member and they do not have a member on the investigative committee, which is obviously more than obvious because they do not know that we have not proposed any conclusions in the report as an investigative commission. That way they won't have to vote on them. I see they haven't even read the reports. As regards the interim report itself, I can say that it was basically prepared by our expert advisors to the investigative commission appointed on the initiative, I had one as President of the Commission, the other on the initiative of the SD party and one external expert advisor was on the initiative of the LMŠ Group. All these expert advisers have essentially prepared this interim report, which we are also talking about here today. I am so surprised by some statements by the opposition about the inappropriate content of this interim report. Mr. Pashovich, what can I say? You are indeed capable of lying and corruption more than obvious. You said that today, and you also wrote in your separate opinion that I, as President, have selectively guided the investigation into pre-prepared political positions. Well, I'm really curious about the way I did it. I'm sorry, but when we divided the work of the commission of inquiry into two parts on 16 March 2021, we did it as an investigative commission, as a collective body. I didn't do it as President Susana Pretty Šimenka. We did it together. We acted, of course, in accordance with this Decision, which I am also obliged to take into account, because we have adopted it together. This division of labour decision, of course, makes sense precisely because of the easier review of the investigation itself. And I believe you have no chance of us looking into your government. And that, of course, is more than obviously the biggest problem you have here. It's normal for us to take all the interviews this way. And what can I say? Goodness is an orphan. This has also proved to be true on this investigative committee. As has already been said, we had expert advisers from the opposition who we confirmed on the investigative commission as members, and we all, unitedly, would not need them, but we did, because we thought it was right. We have fully complied with all of your demands regarding the conclusions on the conduct of preparatory investigations, and all of them, including those that you have submitted past our agreement and the rules of procedure that we have received on the table, have been interrupted in the middle of a session. You have been made available by the Secretary of the Commission of Inquiry and also by my external co-worker, that you have jointly drawn up a decision in the right form because it has not been submitted in the right form, and we have taken this into account. Everything you've proposed is all your requirements for all the documentation. We haven't turned down anything as an investigative commission. Not one. We've taken everything into account. It was the same with the appointment of your expert advisor. It wasn't filed in time, we suspended the session, you brought a resume to our table, and then we made a credible decision based on it. I think we acted very properly and I find all these statements really inappropriate and even really unfair. That decision on the third request, as regards all witnesses to be heard, did not refer to the first period of the commission of inquiry. At that time, we adopted an evidentiary decision which applied exclusively to the period of up to 12. 3. But you came with a list of witnesses and wanted to be included there. It was also not tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. However, some of the Witnesses on that list were interrogated. However, we have followed that we have focused first on the first period, as the Commission of Inquiry and not Susana Lepi Šimenka, as President of this Commission of Inquiry, has accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u89	Thank you, too. The word is from Dr. Franz Duck, get Rudy Bear ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. In the beginning, that's exactly what I'm going to say. Your government, our government, whatever government, is the government of all of us. Even if it's run by someone you don't personally agree with. As Members of Parliament, we are representatives of all the people. In the most radical form, it means that I also represent John Janša, and if he were to sit here, he represents me. So you'll all understand. Now someone's gonna go crazy again with some twitters and stuff. The investigative committees are not ours either, yours. Investigative committees are investigative committees of the National Assembly. I don't own any of my professional associates, yours, theirs. As a rule, then, the commission of inquiry is named after the names of those who lead them, probably because the official name of the commission of inquiry is such a jaundice that I don't know if the presidents can even say it in their mouths. Robbie's moving away, no. I probably wouldn't know myself. That's actually some kind of fact. The fact is, regardless of who is proposing the experts and experts that are generally confirmed, even in some other investigative commissions I have already worked in the National Assembly, those who lead the investigators are very much guided. There's no significant difference between what a colleague did, like that committee we called Janie, and Jelkin and Logar, and so on. I am now going to be involved in this kind of fighting LMSH, I am not going to involve the SDS because I thought that certain matters were not somehow given in this report as they should have been properly given. Because even when this story began to cook, I presided over a challenging committee, I also wrote substantively what was at stake. Frankly, at the time, I was even officially absent, and he was a substitute member, and basically, the chairman could, if she wanted to, have warned me about this separate opinion. I have to be honest with you. I can't help but be a little personal. With this problem I began to deal with myself in essence as soon as the first information came that something was going on in China. Somehow at the end of January, as I mentioned earlier, I received some specific e-mails sent to me by Slovenian doctors, doctors operating in Italy operating in England, operating elsewhere. In early February, it was definitely clear that this would not be just some slightly different flu. Now I can honestly say that in some of the first communications I had with Charz and Shabedra at the time, there was some view that I was overreacting. They can admit it themselves. But I don't blame them for this, nor do I apologize, because there is probably some other European government that has been somewhat underestimating. By mid-February, it was already very clear when the story in Italy began, which probably awaits us. At that time, we had, I think, a meeting of the mother's working body at which I invited both the Italian ambassador and the Austrian ambassador. The Italian ambassador responded, and the Austrian ambassador sent her co-worker. To this day I am ashamed of what the representative of New Slovenia, colleague Iva Dimic, did on that committee, who somehow claimed that the ambassador was lying. That's actually some kind of fact. Because you're all skipping this sort of artificial barrier that we just accepted, yes, for the first phase report, it knew which way it was going to go. The fact is, we can find some awkwardness in the Sharchev government dealing with this problem. The fact is, the government she inherited has radically ruined the story. But she's being radically screwed up - do you know why? Because she took the epidemic, based on some of Janša's defensive logic, and Kacin, who trained for it, probably at the same time as Putin was trained as an agent, like a war. But dealing with an epidemic is basically, if you want, almost a little more sociology than just medicine. And this is where this government crashed. You know, I live in Maribor, and I watched it happen on the Austrian side. And then I was forced to lock down to buy a car because there was no public passenger traffic. And then you drive, and in an hour and a half, I don't admire it when you drive to Ljubljana, from Ljubljana, you've heard those numbers at least four times. There's so many of them up and down. Because you took this as a state of war. Since a press conference had to be held every day, you had to remember something every day. This virus is very mutating, but it didn't mutate so fast again. And then there was all this horrible communication and other, I can't say anything else, nonsense that led to so much and so much if I stay polite in sayings, excess deaths. And these are some facts. I've told you a lot of times on a case like this. I hope that there will be a textbook that does not guide epidemiological measures. You know, this whole story we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, So let's be honest! The reserves were more SDS Febd. That's what you know. Zdravko Restoršek is already the third government’s district minister. Otherwise, he let John wet him about the story, and he would probably have to walk through the courts like Karl Erjavec about Patria. But these are basically some facts. You can put yourself on eyelashes. Covid's tracker is also a fact. We must have forgotten or forgotten, I didn't think this government had made the first exchange that no government had ever made before. She traded the first person from the Bureau of Statistics. Why is that? Because an economic fax professor did not get raw data, which he also cannot get, because they are business secrecy in the field of the economy. These are stories, facts, some story you wrote yourself. Five years earlier, we had listened to Janša almost alone — like the one who threw himself at the tank — freed us from what is the best crisis manager up and down. Yeah, it's not! That's a fact. Charec got into too many shoes, and definitely someone else before him. I know it's unkind to listen to, but these are some facts. Bring someone after 30 years who has played a role there to be a communicator Please be nice! [[…]] This is a question that I have asked several times before, and call people who know how to communicate in the 21st century. No, from spite insist with those “Krk pools, enjoy as long as you can”. Or when people begin to lose their will and judgment, the Prime Minister says that you are suffocating something, as you would say in Maribor, because you are sitting on the couch watching TV. These are some sort of facts. And perhaps if Charche's government remained, it would seem to me that Sharec would also shake up some charisms that I would not be oversatisfied with. What we need to learn from this story is that we need to learn, because elections are ahead of us and most of us have passive electoral rights, but not everyone is yet a Member or a Member, not just for the presidency of a demanding committee, not everyone is in favour of the government, let alone a lot for the president or the presidents of governments. These are some sort of facts. And we all have some kind of expiration date. Both Janša and Pahorje have long expired.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Rudy Bear has the word. Get Robert Pavšič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Now we're in the middle of a story and we're at the second part, part two, it's all Marjana Sarec's fault. You in the SDS would also accuse Marjana Sarca of being responsible for the climate crisis. But lucky for the climate crisis, you don't admit it, and then you can't blame him for it. But it's not the point of whether or not he's guilty of all of Marjan Sarec, as you want him to do with this investigation committee report now. The fundamental question is when and why this commission of inquiry was established and why you rushed so quickly that you rushed the opposition to prove something completely different with this commission of inquiry. What's not even proven before the election, I'll continue to say why not. You say that in the opposition we see the problem of you looking at the work of the investigative commission in the work of the previous government. No, of course it's not a problem. It is perfectly normal that, if the time period is set as it is, the work of the Commission can only be done at this time and looked into the work of the previous government. Do you know what the problem is? Don't look at the work of the current government. That's why you rushed with this investigative commission, took it elsewhere, because you knew exactly what the original objective of the opposition was if you set up this investigative commission – to look at the work of the current government in these specific matters. By the time you were establishing this, it was quite clear and quite well known that in suspicious purchases of medical equipment it smells like heaven. All the clues pointed to how customeristic, friendly this government went into this, as you say, centralized procurement of medical and protective equipment. All the clues. In order to cover all of this successfully, cover up, you pointed out in that period February-March 2020 that the previous government has done nothing, which you know is a complete lie. I have already listed what the previous government, led by Marjan Sarca, has taken as measures to prevent the spread of the Coronavirus and prevent the introduction or restrict the introduction of the Coronavirus into the country when considering the report of the previous Parliamentary Commission. Among other things, it is very early, one of the first closures in Europe. Remember what the Minister of Economic Affairs was doing at the time, how strongly he opposed the closure of the border with Italy and Croatia. This is the lifesaver who's been in a criminal investigation for almost two years now. I'd like to point out an explanation or two here. It was perfectly clear that you would not go anywhere near this commission of inquiry to these suspicious, half-criminal ones, perhaps even to the very criminal business of purchasing medical and protective equipment, so that you would certainly not touch it. Obviously, given how you brutally subordinated yourself to the police, at least until the elections, there will be nothing to do with the epilogue of a criminal investigation, which, as you know, is the economic minister of Restoration. Why is it unlikely that there will be any epilogue, so no possible filing of a criminal complaint or announcing it? Because the leadership of the police, politically staged and politically guided, has so far done everything to prevent this from happening. Look how the investigation itself went. By constantly changing the criminal leaders of the investigation in this matter. However, it began quite quickly after that famous house investigation by Minister Počavalšk, who claims that he was not informed in advance, and the criminal investigator who then conducted the investigation made it clear on the investigative committee that it was quite evident that he had been informed in advance of the house investigation and that they had also found a brick harvest on him, as was the case in the case of the house investigation. And then that story with the phone locked in, and that PIN code that the minister of economy said gave was wrong, and the phone locked itself down, so it didn't come back to data. In short, then everything was done to discredit this investigation. Even the day before, one of the portals, I will not say the media owned by the SDS, has also successfully published this in advance and further discredited this investigation. But, of course, it wasn't over here, and then the crime scene was just beginning, so I don't know which one is running this investigation right now. In the meantime, one such neat detail occurred that the criminalist who had been removed from this investigation had replaced the criminalist as the leader of the investigation who had come from Celje, where, not so long ago, he had been working with the closest co-worker of Minister Počvalska, and this criminalist had taken over the conduct of this investigation, claiming to be the head of the investigation, but that he had nothing to do with the investigation and so on and so on. Now, of course, we are just ahead of the elections and we will just have to squeeze a little bit more, but the matter will not get epilogue, although the investigation is more or less completed than it can be learned, and that, of course, this epilogue is somewhere in the drawer of the National Investigation Office, somewhere in the drawer near the leadership of the National Investigation Office and there is a safe waiting period for the elections to pass. And I'm not prejudiced by what the criminal investigation has shown, of course, I don't know, but obviously it wasn't all as innocent as you believe, if it were, it would have been hung long ago on the big bell as lifeguards at the time really just saved lives, but not working for the pockets of their political thinkers or co-conspirators. It's an epilogue of all this. You have, of course, managed to conceal with this investigative commission all these benefits that have taken place around the purchase of protective and medical equipment, and, of course, so successfully and effectively manage the police, that also the authorities in which we have to trust that they will do their job, that these authorities, of course, are also successfully burdened and waiting for it to pass through this April 24th. Then it will be, as it will be, but the important thing is, they're past the election. You know, this investigative commission, just like you did, since you were, of course, afraid that the opposition would get close to these suspicious jobs, the investigative commission is suffering from gardener dog syndrome. Which means the gardener's dog doesn't want to, but he doesn't leave it to the others.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Robert Pavšič has a word to prepare himself for the Mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u94	Thank you, Chairman. Well, let's step into the past a little bit. Why did we, as the opposition then, predict the establishment of an investigative commission, and then, in our naivety, we were overtaken by a coalition? Due to the public phone call of the current Minister of Economy to the Department of Commerce Reserves: “You pay for it and Bitenc must get this deal.” That is why we wanted political responsibility to be investigated, because what is more than political responsibility if the current minister calls on the state public office and the director, who is autonomous, should be, order, you pay because some private company has to get this deal. And then the CEO said, "Yeah, there's another one. The other two too?" “No, no, the other two don’t.” There's another sign for the alarm. And now it becomes this commission, it became, because we knew that the moment that the request for the establishment of this commission was made, we immediately knew where the dog taco prays – to cover up our own criminal acts by dealing with, as they say in the Western world, Monkey business. And that's exactly what we're doing. You set up your commission of inquiry to investigate your criminal acts, your people, who have a list of instructions on the day of the house investigation on how to proceed in the case of a house investigation. And even today, you have gone so far as to lie in your position all fat and richly. A little more subtle with the so-called donation to China. We've explained this a billion times. Seven thousand masks were purchased in Slovenia from 1.2 million masks. Seven thousand of these masks were purchased in Slovenia, on the market, by the state. However, the State subsidised or added 25% of the transport costs of this equipment to China, which it needed at the time. And the Chinese country was so grateful to Slovenia that it offered direct cooperation to the state to purchase the protective equipment we needed at the time. But no, this government said, "No, the state doesn't, we need private intermediaries." Exactly the ones that the current Minister of Economy was then grappling with. She's an orphan. I heard it today. Goodness. I'll read you Article 12 of the Rules of Procedure of the Commission of Inquiry, and you know it well, and I'll read it so that the others will hear it. First paragraph: “The Commission of Inquiry shall adopt decisions by a majority of the members present, unless otherwise provided for in this Rules of Procedure.” And look at the fraction, in the second paragraph it states otherwise: “The Commission of Inquiry must carry out preparatory investigations, inform the public of the preparatory investigations carried out, ask questions from the State authorities regarding the parliamentary investigation and accept and carry out evidence if at least one third of the members of the Commission of Inquiry so require.” He's got to do it. We put it in. A third of the members were signed. The Commission of Inquiry will not do that. What kind of goodness is that now? In one year! In a separate opinion, all these proposed conclusions are in there and a proposed list of witnesses, so that each one can look at and draw up his own opinion. As far as expert advisors are concerned. But here you are truly misleading, these are the expert advisors of the commission, not mine, not from Dr. Duck's colleague, they're yours, the president. Because – what? The President is directing the work of expert advisors. And as I know, they had an explicit ban on looking into the files after March 12. It's an explicit ban, and I've never read it to you. And today we are considering an interim report. So we're done with the first part of the investigation. I've already submitted a third request for an extraordinary meeting to you 14 days ago, a little awkwardly written down, so we tabled the matter again a few days ago. Did you call the next meeting? Because, as Rule 12 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation states: “The Commission of Inquiry must produce evidence and the hearing of witnesses is the execution of evidence.” Of course, it will be easier now to avoid time constraints, to find appropriate deadlines, then to justify these potential witnesses and the matter will disappear by 24. due to the passiveness or active passiveness of conducting this parliamentary investigation. Since the report does not mention one of the main responsible persons in this process, Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Počvalska, nor has it been heard as a key person in preparing for the epidemic, despite the fact that the Department of Commodity Reserves, the so-called famous empty warehouses, is directly involved in the intervention of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which was led by the same person during the 13th government, i.e. the interim report we are considering today, and the 14th government has led the same person. [[advertising from the hall]] And the 12th, too, yes. And we don't question him, and there's always the same person at the top of politics, and we don't question him and bring out the judgment as a commission that everything was catastrophic, as far as the 13th government is concerned, and he was the same minister. I could explain a lot of things. Don't yam, Comrade Verbich, you'll have time to talk to me, but I have a few minutes left. I've heard the conclusion of the interim finding that they're empty warehouses, but I don't know what else. How, then, can we adopt such a decision if we have not heard from the then Director of the Department of Stocks and the competent minister? And we're going to another lie that I heard today in the SDS's position on this report that Shabeder, the former Minister of Health, warned that the deadline was too short. I recommend that you read the transcript of the hearing, because the Minister said at the time: “No one objected to this deadline, but the conclusion was prepared by the Ministry of Economy.” It's that man again. And whoever dares to write it down, read it, has no idea how the Department of Stocks works. He has no idea. It was never intended for storage or distribution of protective equipment, except medical equipment, except those emergency medicines which it must have. And it works on the basis of two very clear, well-known documents – on the basis of a five-year plan to be adopted for a period of five years and an operational annual plan that has been in force since 1. 1. to 31. 12. it is determined by the time it is valid and in the meantime the Government changes it. The annual procurement plan for the Department of Freight Reserves is only amended. You make such a story out of this, by being the Department of Stocks yourself or this government appointed it as the central part of the acquisition of security and security equipment, even though it was never intended to do so. And the Court of Auditors points out with precisely this argument: “The procedures set out in the Office of Freight Reserves and other existing regulations or strategic or implementing documents shall not be determined in such a way as to be useful for the effective assessment of the needs for equipment to be procured and distributed to relevant users in exceptional circumstances without delay.” This Government has itself decided to use the institution, which has not been designated for this purpose, for centralised procurement of protective equipment. Of course, then Zdravko Zdravkoskak can pick up the phone and say: “Listen, Zakrešek, you pay this account in full, 100% advance, because Bitenc has to get this deal.” That's the only reason. And what my buddy Duck said is still damn true. The Department of Trade Reserves is in the entire history of your client's fevd. But the gentlemen at the Department of Trade Reserves also learned how dangerous this is or how dangerous it is to do it with the government. They learned to this extent that this video then came to the fore and that one of the lawyers of the Ivan Gale Department of Commerce Reserves had been exposed and said that this matter was not good, it was illegal. But since this commission has not been able to process the hearings of the four key witnesses in a year and a half in a year – even two of the ones we have proposed would be enough – this story will disappear and crime will hide itself in order to create a political conspiracy again in the next term. No, it was a crime. And I can say this in confidence, because I've told you a lot of things, I've seen in the protected area, there's a lot of documentation with signatures, with correspondence, with everything. I only hope that the NPU has these documents and that it will respond and complete its investigation, not that the matter will drag on so long as it eventually wears off.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The representative of the proposer shall have the floor. Here you go, Susanna Pretty Chimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u96	Thank you so much for the word. Let me explain some things. The external advisers of the investigative commission are proposed on the proposal of the parliamentary groups. And this investigative commission had external advisers on a proposal from SD, LMŠ and also the SAB, who then resigned in the meantime, and I had one as President, the only one not being appointed on a proposal from the parliamentary group. And let me tell you, this is a big lie. Our external advisors had no prohibition that the materials of our investigators should not be peered into, they could see everything. And they are. But when we were preparing for the hearing, of course, they were focusing on the material that was related to that period that we had also heard about, which, of course, was perfectly logical. And they've probably been of use to you, too. You quoted Rule 12 of the Rules of Procedure as follows: “The Commission of Inquiry must carry out preparatory investigations.” True, evidence, all of this must be done before the end of the investigation. Today we are discussing the interim report of the Commission of Inquiry. This is not the final report and you cannot say that we have not complied with your third requirements. And this third requirement of yours, when you speak of a long list of witnesses, has been given to a decision of proof that applied exclusively to period 1. 2. 2020 to 12. 3. 2020. If you're a little awkward about this investment, it's your problem and your problem. I know that we have always acted in accordance with the agreement of our investigative commission and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. However, Article 10 of the Rules of Procedure also provides that the President shall determine the order of the hearings of investigators, witnesses and experts. It's the president's job. That's all I need to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. It's a nice greeting for everyone! I must admit that I am very sorry that the distinguished colleague Pavšič is no longer in the Chamber. I believe it may have been a little calculus, because I couldn't replicate anymore, but I'm just gonna start with him. The fact is that, first of all, in a certain part of his debate, I can say, he is misleading himself, the public as well as we are here when he was talking about how the Minister of Economy on the phone somehow ordered the Director of the Reserve to order an advance and so on. It's a complete delusion, an untruth. It is true that the Minister of Economy has made a telephone conversation, which is known to the public, with a specific, say, advance order to a certain company, but this company has already concluded a contract on the supply of protective equipment with the Department of Commodity Reserve. And then why are we so subdued in this political passion of debate when we want to show the other half, the other side, everything just so that it is different and that the public in one way or another would get an assessment, indeed, as respectable colleague Rudy Medved said, “the acquisition of protective equipment was carried out in a way that smells like heaven”. In fact, they are in harmony with the presentation of the complete untruth. Be honest and say it honestly. I resent my colleague Pavšić for not saying what he's saying. Those of us who were in the business world in the past before we came to the public sector or to this Parliament were aware of the emergency situation if the company or whatever happened to this epidemic is acting immediately. I absolutely agree with the fact that it is most likely in such circumstances that this epidemic or co-vid occurred that there are literally hunters on the market, if I may say so, who want to take advantage of the situation. But the point is to preserve life, to preserve health. But there was no word on this in these debates. And what I wanted to say to my respectable colleague Pavšić, if I do not believe me or anyone who discusses objective facts, then let him believe at least his President, Mr Šarc, and also Mr Šabedru, the then Minister of Health, who speaks very clearly in the records and materials of this commission of inquiry. They both stated and this is evident to all that the Department of Stocks was not obliged to provide safeguards at the time. To avoid misinterpretation, it is true that the present - day Charles government is 27. 2. 2020 adopted a decision to subsequently provide the Department of Trade Reserves, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Health, concerning goods for protection and rescue, through the logistics centre in Ljubljana. However, once again, none of the appointed colleagues mentioned that this was the decision of the Government, which tied the suit up until 31. 12. 2020. But that's another story. We also do not want to be objective in political debates, because it is important to black out or blur the important facts that the protections of those days were exclusively committed to the competences of hospitals, health institutions, the homes of the elderly and so on. I would rather not discuss this any further. It is true that in these so-called debates of the parliamentary investigative commissions, at least in the previous point and at the present time, there was no talk of a heated debate that we have an individual collective responsibility here and that we have an subjective and objective responsibility. And the fact is, as is known, and whoever wanted to take a look at this material, this commission dealt with practically two time periods. 1. Two to 12. 3. because 13. 3. A new government took place, and since 12. 3. to 29. 9. When it was decided by the National Assembly that this parliamentary commission of inquiry should also be formed. What is important, and also in the opening presentation of our Group's position, was very clearly stated that, during the period beginning in 2020, simply on the side of the executive branch led by the President of the Government, Mr Marjana Sarec, was not aware that full responsibility had been given to action in order to ensure more activity in the global market for the provision of protective equipment already during that turbulent time. And now we are looking for all the other reasons why this minister is guilty, except that he was not guilty or responsible, which was hardly mentioned that I would not speak to the President of the Government. Unfortunately, it must be acknowledged that the President of the Government is the one who is the first man of executive power and is in charge and is also responsible for the care of his people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u99	Thank you, too. Reploco's got dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u100	Thank you. I have a two-part replica. In the first part of the replica - the chairman of these committees made it clear earlier, because in fact you are proposing co-workers, but logically, as you said, somehow as chairman, I am directing what we are actually going to focus more on. The second part of the story, when a colleague spoke from – what is – the former SMC, is now concrete. At least twice you've done it logically. First of all, you've shot yourself in such a way that you're now attacking from the current coalition because you've crossed over, and how the Sharčev government was responsible, and how the ministry led by the Restoration, the empty supply reserves, on the other hand, you're saying that the minister isn't actually responsible for this. And another story. 114. Article 114 of the Constitution makes it very clear what is the task of the President of the Government and what is the task and autonomy of the ministers of the field. The Minister for Economic Development and Technology is, let's say, with the Minister of Finance, the one who has to look at what is happening in global markets and, of course, inform the Government, which is the collective body. Just do it for a little while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which he will be given the floor by the representative of the proposaler Susan Lepi Šimenko. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Let me introductoryly explain what has been reported by my colleague Pavšić. I now have before me a magnetogram regarding the statement made by former Minister Šabedr. Mr. Schabeder was then, we're talking about the 27th government meeting. 2. when the stocks were released and when it was decided that stocks should be replaced by 31. 12. 2020. At the hearing, Mr Šabeder said: “Look, the decision was prepared by the Ministry of Economy. If I recall correctly, I told the government at this meeting that the deadline was too long and the equipment needed to be procured earlier. It must probably be somewhere in a magnetogram of this government session.” my question followed: “Did this decision seem appropriate to you or not?” Mr Šabedr's reply: "The deadline is certainly not because I knew at the time that equipment would need to be obtained significantly earlier, since in the neighbouring countries the epidemic has already been or has already been relatively large in the number of people infected in neighbouring countries." So I don't know what was wrong in the position itself. I would like to thank all the members of the Commission of Inquiry for their work so far, everyone you have discussed today, one more, the other less constructive. What is crucial, however, is that according to our report of the Commission of Inquiry, public institutions did not have sufficient supplies of protective equipment. The 13th government, the government of Marjana Sharca, expected public authorities to take care of their own supplies, of course. Given the situation in force on the market at the time, that government should have acted differently but not acted. And that's what she's getting. But the consequences, we all know what they were like. And because of some of the measures taken too late, we also know where the infections began to spread and who brought them to Slovenia. As has already been said, I thank everyone for my work so far, but our investigative commission has not, of course, finished its work yet. Only with an interim report.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u103	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone else would like to discuss it? I take it it's an interest. If she would like to discuss the representative of the proposaler Susan Lepi Šimenko, please also apply by pressing the microphone button. In this case, he gets the last word. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. Robert Pavšič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u104	Thank you, Chairman. What were the consequences of the first wave? Much better than the consequences of the second wave, Madam President. This means that the first wave system has been relatively well prepared and has responded well. Half a year before the second wave, someone slept, hibernated, did some business in the middle of it, made it possible for his friends to make wonderful profits by purchasing protective equipment, by purchasing medical equipment, by the end of the year, while the matter continued with rapid tests and so on. We'll keep working, you say. Have you called the next session? In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have 14 days to call and perform. Did you at least find the appointment? I'll see if your professional associate is up there who could give you some information if you've already found an appointment. You didn't. Don't fool around. Be at least that honest with us colleagues, and tell us in truth that you will not conduct these hearings as requested by the opposition members on the investigative committee. There are now no substantive or formal reservations to at least convene a meeting. But I haven't gotten the invitations yet. In view of the fact that the hearings are under way, they may not have been received even by those who are supposed to be interrogated. And I asked you twice explicitly in the debate whether you had convened the next meeting. You know, it's not only in good will, it's also a lot in some personal approach, personal integrity, personal desire for justice, in truth. We have never tried to interfere with you, on the contrary, before. Well, then, it's true that goodness becomes an orphan. I do not expect anything, nothing such that it would not be feasible if, of course, there is a personal will for this and a political will that is much more exposed at this time. It's not right, you know, it's not right that things never get epilogues in this country. It's not okay. Because then there is no confidence in you or in us, in anyone, not in the courts, not in the police, not in the NPU, not in the specialized state prosecutor's office. That is why it is good to remember sometimes that we are actually Members only of the people and, as such, we answer to ourselves in the first place. We answer to ourselves that we are truthful, working, active and that we are looking for the necessary solutions in accordance with our beliefs, not to prevent political opponents. I really don't want to be so brutal about this moment, but otherwise it's not possible, because too many things I've seen, too many things I've heard from reliable people, so I can push it aside and say, there's only suspicion. No, not just a suspicion, a respected colleague, no suspicion. There are also facts among the documents. The counterfeiting of documents was in the middle of not talking about political pressure on those who shared millions.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u106	Thank you very much again, Madam Vice President. I must admit that in one piece of my predecessor I even very much agree with him when he somehow said that the law enforcement authorities in the Republic of Slovenia either work or do not work or do not work at all. But I am obliged on this occasion, given that the debaters before me also had a wide debate, to touch on why the law enforcement authorities are not effective, still open: a 5 billion-dollar bank hole and a billion Euros of Iranian money laundering, and a TES6 so that I will not continue to mention. Now that we're talking about this thing, it's gonna be overnight. I myself firmly believe that law enforcement authorities must effectively identify and prosecute crimes, abuses with charges. In this context, I must add, when it was also said in the previous debate how the NPU will confirm the charges, that is not true, the prosecution is the one who will process these matters. I owe some other things that I have not succeeded in my debate because of the more objective facts that the political debate on the opposite political options that are publicly or otherwise showing us in some deception and similar way in this process. I will read only one part of the conclusion in this report, and I believe that we have all read it, at least the ones we are in this Chamber. And what does he say? Problems with the supply of protective equipment during that period were also described in various ways by the directors of Slovenian hospitals in the course of the hearings of the investigative commission in question, since hospitals or health institutions are responsible for the purchase of necessary and appropriate safety equipment. This was also pointed out at the hearing by the then President of the Government, Marjan Šarec, who said: “For purchases, larger purchases and protective equipment in individual institutions were, as it were said, responsible institutions themselves.” He added: “The reserves were never foreseen for these purchases at the time of our government.” Now, I don't know, my colleagues from this same parliamentary group, whose party president is President Marjan Sarec of the day, let us somehow coordinate with each other. No one has denied this and it is right that this is also [limited] in this debate. And yet another matter I am indebted to the words of the then Minister Aleš Šabedr. “6. In March 2020, the supply market situation with protective equipment became increasingly acute, as the Minister of Health, Aleš Šabeder, also pointed out in his statement. And it says, we notice that prices have risen extremely, not only in protective masks, but also in other protective equipment. The rise in these prices is a multiple of previous prices, so that certain producers or traders are making significant use of the market situation or needs at the moment.” And, Your Honor, this is a period of time, if I can call it that when the current government has taken over the government or the post of Prime Minister, I want to say before 13. 3. And when there was talk about the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors found that, despite poor system regulation, some auditors were appointed by the Ministry of Health as well as the National Institute for Public Health, which had not been activated or activated, but the Court of Auditors found that the purchase of equipment had not been organised at all, were unsystematic and the process itself was uneven. Finally, a recommendation for the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology made a recommendation in its conclusion only in one point on how to record the conditions and criteria for the selection of producers. So a lot of things have been misleading in this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u107	Thank you, too. Eva Dimic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Colleagues and colleagues! I have listened to today's debate, and I think I have to respond to some of the words that have been said, not for the first time, so I think it is right that on this subject, which, of course, also stresses that I should speak. My friend Duck said I lied to Ambassador Carl Campanile of Italy, which of course is not true. I have a magnetogram from this urgent meeting of the Health Committee on 25 February 2020, when we were actually monitoring what was going on in neighbouring Italy, and then the Ambassador was invited to this meeting and I just asked him what was being shown in our media. Even when you opened Google to want to travel to Italy, it was that around Milan the roads were closed. And that's all I wanted to ask the ambassador, is it really so that Italy has more control over entry into certain places. Of course, he then said that in Milan, not that there were villages, but 11 congregations that were closed in that area. I really have to, I wanted to point out that I didn't want to, and that it's not true that I put some ambassador here in the National Assembly on a lie. But it is a fact and now that I am reading a magnetogram, when the picture is clearer that our questions were correct on this topic at the time. By then, as early as 25 February 2020, let's leave those one million 200 protection masks for China, but already there was information, it says 24. 2. 2020, that Lekarni Ljubljana has run out of protective masks to defuse it, it is said that by then, on 24 February, everything had already been lost before the announcement. That's a fact, and now that we're looking back, that's exactly what it was. The warehouses were empty. Italy, when I read the magnetogram, when I read the ambassador's magnetogram, they were already preparing. Do you remember their centre that will be in Milja, it is just next to Slovenia, that they will make one such centre for the sick? Even then, I believe, the ambassador said that there was not such a big infection in Italy, in those days, I think seven died according to his words, and here we know exactly how things were going. I think we should take a look at this side, too. Do you know what else happened since 25. 2. 2020? No vaccine for normal flu. That's all we've got. There's no vaccine for normal flu. I think maybe things are 2020, those first weeks, that maybe they're already away, but when you look at the magnetograms, you say to yourself, look, since we've already warned about all this, but some things are still going on. The fact is, Slovenia was not ready. Even Calpola for the children, for the heat-compression has run out. Can you imagine the situation we were in? That they were emptying shops in Sezhana. That was before the pandemic was officially declared. Things were serious, and here I am listening to what someone did wrong. They were getting rid of people. The situation we were in was resolved because of irresponsible behavior and, of course, because a pandemic plan for risk groups such as heart patients, cancer patients, diabetics and those most at risk groups that suffered and were the most victims. That's what proves that we were warned early enough and that we weren't ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u109	Thank you, too. The text shall be delivered by the representative of the proposer, Susan Leup Šimenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your word. Once again, on 16 March 2021, we decided that the work of the commission of inquiry would be divided into two parts and that the Commission of Inquiry followed. Today we are considering an interim report, we will vote on it on Wednesday, and the National Assembly will decide whether this interim report will be confirmed or not. I find it completely inappropriate what individual members of this commission of inquiry are doing. They want to introduce some unusual practice, or they may copy another commission of inquiry and force certain interrogations. Look, at the time, we decided mostly to finish the first part, when this part is finished, the second part of the commission of inquiry continues. We all agree that this area needs to be explored and that the Slovenian public has the right to know all the truth about it and not just some flooding that we have heard today in the consideration of this report. And that's how we're gonna do it. It will be known on Wednesday whether the interim report will be confirmed or not. We must, of course, take note of all the documentation that we have not yet achieved. And then, of course, the hearings follow. If the Commission of Inquiry has not completed its work in this mandate, the same content may be resumed or resumed by the Commission of Inquiry. I believe that all of us who are members of this commission of inquiry are such good Members that we will be re-elected to the National Assembly and we will be able to continue this work peacefully. Once again, I thank everyone for the right work and of course the work done so far and the beautiful afternoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and note that the National Assembly took note of the Interim Report on Parliamentary Investigations by the Investigative Commission on the provision of protective equipment and the measures taken by institutions and public function holders to combat the spread of covid-19 disease from 1. 2. 2020 until the Parliamentary investigation is determined. On Wednesday, 23 March 2022, in the framework of the votes, the assembly will take a decision on the essential findings and on the amendment of the LMŠ Group's proposal for a decision. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 39. At the time of the day, this is a report on the flow and findings of the liability of public function holders in the area of procurement and management of medical equipment and health materials and on the reasons for the incomplete parliamentary investigation. The report was submitted to the Council by the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the responsibilities of public function holders in the children's cardiology programme and in the field of procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, President of the Investigative Commission mags. Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u112	Your Honor! Presentation of the work carried out by the Parliamentary Investigative Commission on the identification of the responsibilities of public function holders in the Child Cardiology Programme and in the area of procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material will begin with the statements of one of the witnesses interviewed. I quote: “We are obviously such a country where things are possible. So, if the builders were making arrangements in front of the TV cameras, who's going to be building somewhere, what's more than a cartel deal? Why do you think that in health care such cartel arrangements would not take place on a smaller scale in a restaurant?" End of quote. These statements clearly show the situation to which we have witnessed Commission members investigating Slovenian hospitals in the field of public procurement during the period between 1. 1. 2007 and 21. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The latter means that public procurement in the hospitals investigated did not follow the principles laid down by the Public Procurement Act, i.e. the principle of cost-effectiveness, efficiency, performance, competition between tenderers, transparency, proportionality and equal treatment of tenderers, but was in principle subject to agreement between suppliers and institutions which would obtain a business from hospitals. Therefore, a proposed and adopted amendment to the Public Procurement Act was proposed and should no longer be repeated and strictly necessary. In this second part of the investigation, in which we dealt with the procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material in Slovenian hospitals, the Commission reviewed a number of materials, carried out a number of analyses and hearings of witnesses. Unfortunately, all the results we have come up with due to the lack of time when the current mandate is due to expire will not be presented to the public. We are convinced that, therefore, there are still many open cases that are suitable for further work in the course of this investigation. The Commission has already presented an interim report to the National Assembly, which detailed developments in the procurement and management of medical equipment at the General Hospital of Dr. Franca Derganca Nova Gorica. The Commission's report today also includes the findings of the procurement situation at the Ortoped Hospital Valdoltra and the comparison of procurement and management practices with medical equipment and medical material in Slovenian hospitals. The results of the investigation presented by the Commission in the area of procurement and management of medical equipment at Nova Gorica Hospital were solid enough to allow the Commission to propose amendments to the Public Procurement Act, as you have also learned from the Members who supported the proposed amendments. In the report that you have before you today and a summary of the findings of the procurement investigation at the Ortoped Hospital Valdoltra, we have come to very similar conclusions as in the case of the public procurement investigation at Nova Gorica Hospital. The latter therefore underlines the fact that our proposed legislative changes in this area have been fully justified, and we hope that they will be as effective as we have anticipated. If you support the Commission's decision today, we can actually figure it out over time. In the report you have before you today, the Commission has thus shown how, even in the case of the Ortoped Hospital Valdoltra, there is a preference for individual suppliers of orthopaedic medical material, while in the case of Nova Gorica the professional requirements were written or even copied from the catalogue of the manufacturer Lima and contained catalogue numbers that were in favour of the supplier Primsel. In the case of Ortoped Hospital Valdoltra, we met with practice that the professional requirements in the case of purchase of orthopaedic material were written in very detail or even copied from the catalogues available to Mark Medical. As a result of these facts, the remaining tenderers, which were generally cheaper, were rejected for allegedly inadequate tenders and thus excluded from the procedure. At this point, I would like to point out that the analyses carried out for further work indicate that this has been a constant practice in Slovenian hospitals, as we have also pointed out in the final conclusions of the report under consideration today. As in the interim report for the hospital in Novi Gorica, we must also raise the problem of public procurement in this case. Certain doctors opposed such practices and demanded that public procurement be corrected because they were convinced that it was the preference of individual tenderers. Such a practice has led to delays in the execution of public contracts, while at the same time overpayment of the value of public contracts determined by the opening decisions. In this part, the Commission cannot pass the hospital pharmacy management, which, contrary to the law in force, had a decisive role in the procurement proceedings, and the hospital directors who approved such practices. In the opening decisions of the two hospitals analysed, it was evident that the framework agreements signed by the hospitals with the selected suppliers in individual cases were higher than the value determined by the decision. Hospital directors are responsible for this practice, as such controversial practices have been repeatedly warned in the past and allowed to continue. The previous practice thus led to two conclusions presented by the Commission in its work in the reports. For the first time in Slovenian hospitals, we have witnessed completely different prices for the same medical material. Here it must be said that the prices obtained were based on medical material with the same catalogue numbers. Thus, through our work, we came to the conclusion that the hospital, for example in Nova Gorica, paid 75% more for the same medical material than the hospital in Valdoltra because it was an intermediary. But that's not the only difference in price. The Commission found that price providers also adjusted according to the size of hospitals or their operational programme. For example, in Valdoltra, a specialized orthopedic hospital, 63 % less paid for the same medical material than in Brežica, where orthopedics are carried out to a lesser extent, but this was the same supplier, Lima. On the basis of the Commission's calculations, Nova Gorica Hospital could save enough in nine years to cover a one-year loss incurred by the hospital, for example, in 2012. As a second observation, however, the dominant position of individual suppliers should be highlighted. For example, in Nova Gorica, Primsel had a majority share of the supply of orthopaedic medical material, and at Valdoltra Hospital Mark Medical. For example, in the case of Valdoltra, Mark Medical achieved a market share of between 49 and 53% according to each year, while the remaining bidders reached only 7% on average. The dominant position in the supply of medical equipment in Slovenian hospitals was not only detected in the case of orthopaedic medical material, but also in general. Thus, the Commission found that, for example, at Nova Gorica Hospital, Gopharm had a prominent dominant position or that the hospital supplied 10 to 40% more medical equipment than the other comparable hospital in Izola. According to witnesses, this was due to logistics itself, but the commission was unable to pass on the fact that the hospital employed the mother and sister of the company’s directors. According to the Commission, these persons signed documents on the basis of which Gopharm supplied medical material to the hospital. In this case, there is a clear suspicion of a conflict of interest. In the case of Valdoltra Hospital, the Commission found a dominant position in the supply of medical equipment and medical material by Mark Medical. This company supplied more medical material than the second and third largest suppliers together during the period for which our commission was responsible. In the presentation of the work carried out by the Commission, we certainly cannot avoid the fact that in the case of public procurement in Slovenian hospitals there were large overpayments of the value of the contract according to the prescribed value of the framework agreements. Thus, in the case of the two hospitals investigated, the Commission found that there had been significant excesses in the value of the framework agreements. Therefore, in the case of Valdoltra, we found approximately €4.5 million in overpayments in two public contracts for a total period of four years. Here it should be pointed out that some of the analyses carried out for possible further work indicate such practice also in other Slovenian hospitals, not just in the field of orthopaedic medical material. Thus, we can quickly see how many millions of transparent public procurements could also save. However, in today's consideration of the report, we cannot go beyond finding that Slovenian hospitals have signed an extension of contracts in the framework agreement in the case of public procurement, despite the fact that this decision on the initiation of a public contract was not allowed. These concluded annexes were also without the value of the quantities, which means that there was an uncontrolled supply of orthopaedic medical material to the hospital. All these anomalies show that in Slovenian hospitals there was a systemic violation of Articles 9 of ZJN-2 and 7 of ZJN-3, which refer to the principle of equal treatment of tenderers, 91st Article ZJN-3, which deals with the prevention of conflicts of interest, 48th Article ZJN-2, which refers to the criteria for the selection of tenderers, 95th Article ZJN-3, which refers to changes in contracts for the execution of public contracts between their value. Furthermore, we have also detected a violation of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, Article 37, which speaks of the duty to avoid conflicts of interest. As a result of all of this, I can confirm today, as President of the Commission of Inquiry, that through our work, it has been more than necessary to adopt the proposed amendments to public procurement legislation in Slovenian hospitals. However, we want the legislative body to continue to monitor how these adopted amendments will in practice also work. The Commission's report therefore proposes that the achievements of the legislation adopted be reported in one and a half years' time to the National Assembly's parent committee. And in the end, allow me to extend my thanks to all the members of the commission. I am pleased that our work has not been marked by political overplay, but by the constructive functioning and participation of all members of the Commission in the light of the improvement of the state of procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material and thus the transparent use of public funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u113	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Suzanne Leup Šimenka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. “The contracting authority must carry out the procurement by ensuring the efficient and efficient use of public funds and successfully achieving the objectives of its operation, determined in accordance with the rules governing the use of budgetary and other public funds.” Why did we point out this principle in the Public Procurement Act in the SDS? Because it is essential for transparent use of public money. And we witnessed this in Slovenian hospitals? In the second part of the investigation, the Commission of Inquiry to determine the responsibilities of public function holders in the children's cardiology programme and in the field of procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material focused on public procurement in Slovenian hospitals. Members of the committee under the guidance of the Magi. Carmen Furman held 12 meetings in the second part and heard 24 Witnesses. According to the report submitted by the Commission, all witness hearings were based on preliminary analyses of individual public procurements carried out in Slovenian hospitals. If you have read such an interim report relating to the general hospital of Nova Gorica as the report that we are considering today, you can see that the Commission, with the hearings of the witnesses, has only confirmed its analysis and findings. The Commission reports thus show that in the period 2007 and 2018, for which the Commission was competent, we cannot really talk about transparent use of public funds in Slovenian hospitals. In this way, the Commission gave us a view to the fact that in Slovenian hospitals there was a preference for individual suppliers by means of tailored calls, in a way that included extremely specific entries and even catalogue numbers in the professional requirements. Despite the fact that hospitals have been cited in public tenders and the like, this does not allow individual tenderers to apply for tenders. As a result of these facts, the Commission has also demonstrated that many of the cheaper bidders were excluded from the public procurement because they did not meet the professional requirements. At this point, we are reporting that Mark Medical had a 53% share in one of the public contracts. On the other hand, the remaining 7 selected bidders achieved a 47 % market share in the public procurement. The transparent rate of public funds also means that the same medical material is purchased by all Slovenian hospitals at the same prices. In this case, too, the Commission has shown through its work that we have witnessed an enormous deviation in the price of the same medical material during that period. For example, Nova Gorica paid for the same prosthetics 75 percent more than, for example, a hospital in Valdoltra. And the reason for this is that there is a material supplied to one hospital by the manufacturer to another intermediary. This is more than clear evidence of the need to introduce reference prices. Throughout its work, the Commission also presented to us that in Slovenian hospitals we are witnessing the predominant position of individual suppliers. And who makes it possible for them? Hospital management and members of the call for proposals. Hospital management, as they sign public contracts that have strictly preferred professional requirements, and members of call committees that prepare such professional requirements. This also means, in practice, that the very value of the tenders determined by the conclusions at the beginning of the procurement procedure is being exceeded. And here we are again in the transparent use of public funds. Throughout its work, the Commission has also shown us how carefree and recklessly the annexes to extend framework agreements have been signed in Slovenian hospitals. It is incomprehensible that an annex may have been issued which did not have a specified quantity and value of medical material to be supplied to hospitals during a specified period of time. That it was a work that was not in accordance with the law, the Commission pointed out to us the case of judgments handed down by the competent courts. How transparently public money has been spent, we add only a few numbers that have been served by the Commission. In the case of Nova Gorica hospital, the amount of overpayments could be covered by a one-year loss of the hospital during the period 2007 to 2016. In the second case, for example, in Valdoltra, in two public contracts, the area of orthopaedics alone exceeded about €4.5 million. This is another proof of how public money is used in Slovenian hospitals. For all of this, of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want the next composition of the National Assembly to continue the work done here and the practices of the other hospitals have also been enlightened and shown where and where the public money goes. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will also support this report and the decision, which provides for the preparation of a report after one year of application of the amended Public Procurement Act (ZJN-3).
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u116	Thank you, Chairman. In its second part on the identification of the responsibility of public officials in the field of procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material in two Slovenian hospitals for the period 2007 - 2018, the Commission found obvious non-economic and non-transparent treatment of public finances. Harmful practices have been identified in procurement procedures for the purchase and operation of medical material and equipment. Public procurement of medical material and medical equipment is highly irregular, as a result of the unregulated market, the non-compliance with applicable legislation and the non-compliance of internal and external supervisory authorities. In the investigation of two hospitals alone, several million overpaid materials and equipment were identified on a case-by-case basis on the basis of the dossier reviewed. This raises the question whether the sample of two hospitals is the one that indicates that similar treatment is done in other Slovenian hospitals and health institutions. More or less this will probably hold, as we also have a number of other data and alerts in the various areas that indicate this. But not all hospitals were so irresponsible. That's practically impossible. The responsibility or guilt that has been established can thus be attributed to the management of hospitals, professional councils, members of public procurement committees, the Ministry of Health, including the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, in all the mandates of the period under consideration, as well as to law enforcement authorities, who could not prevent, in particular, individuals and groups who have become untransparent over the years. During all this period, much has been said, written and publicly said that there is untransparent and corruption in health care, in order to save much in health care if this harmful practice could be eliminated. Of course, we must ask ourselves why all this has been allowed for so many years, despite public warning through the media, despite the warnings of individuals, despite the critical reports of the Court of Auditors, which have repeatedly made clear in their reports the irregularities and inconsistencies of internal controls that could have prevented all of this if only their instructions, the Court of Auditors, had followed. Despite employees in the field of internal audits, including audit services operating in the field of the Ministry of Health, it is said that not all of these bodies have worked or acted very badly. A number of questions are being asked by stakeholders in the healthcare system, from which we would naturally expect very clear answers. But the answers are identical. There's no interest in this area being settled. We wonder if today is the same. For the health sector, I do not have an effective information system which would allow the Ministry of Health to ensure the transparency of procurement by individual hospitals, the use of this equipment in terms of capacity and, ultimately, the productivity of the health teams with the equipment. Thus, we cannot act effectively and quickly in healthcare to complement equipment and the necessary staff. Transparency over the purchase of equipment would allow us to inspect, review the prices of the equipment purchased, even if the purchase would remain the responsibility of individual hospitals. The Court of Auditors made clear in its report already in 2002 and several times during the review of the Commission itself that a uniform approach and transparency is needed for equipment as personnel for all Slovenian hospitals. This could result in cheaper purchases, public procurement and national coverage of regional hospitals with personnel and equipment. The Ministry of Health has even approached the establishment of an information system, which would allow comprehensive transparency and management for all hospitals, following corrective action by the Court of Auditors in the interim period. Unfortunately, there was no interest and with the financial resources already used for this area, the project stopped. From the Ministry of Health’s response, it is even understood that preparedness and response in public health institutions were very different. Some have arranged things and maintained them; others have not responded to calls. However, it was very clear in the first wave of the epidemic that the government of Janez Janša in three months failed to count even fans, breathing aids for covid-19, because of course this did not work. Otherwise, we invest a great deal in information systems, too many, fragmented, used by Slovenian hospitals. The Oncology Institute has spent about a million dollars a year in recent years, but unfortunately the programmes have not worked. Some of them never. Of course, custodians and operators for the development of information systems are externally employed and have no jurisdiction in this area. The Commission of Inquiry carried out its work in the narrower segment of the two hospitals and came to apprehensive conclusions on the basis of a review of the dossier. Dear colleagues and colleagues, when will the interest of the executive to end this negative practice introduce transparency, transparency over individual hospitals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u117	Thank you, too. The positions of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm replacing my colleague the Predator. Slovenian health care or, if you want, Slovenian public health is hardly good four billion. And of course, when you say that, metaphorically speaking, you have four billion partisan interests. The Commission of Inquiry with an appropriate long name, which I will not repeat, has, of course, had a clear task of determining how public procurement is taking place in Slovenian hospitals, what are the reasons for the many non-transparent use of public funds. The mandate shall be terminated and shall also end with the report on the hospital case. In the meantime, we have already discussed the interim report with 30 conclusions, which currently has 29 points. Find out about any or more of the possible negligence of the responsible persons, hospital authorities, pharmacies, ministries. The points also speak of the objective political responsibility of individuals. The Commission of Inquiry has undertaken difficult work and has also reached into very sensitive areas. We can certainly say that irregularities unfortunately happen, have happened, and obviously are still happening. The effort needed to eliminate health problems will be enormous. Every step that goes in this direction to correct irregularities is necessary. Social Democrats, of course, believe that it is necessary to protect our public, accessible health system, which unfortunately became even more vulnerable and vulnerable to these irregularities at the time of the covida-19 pandemic. In the next reference, it is likely that a commission will find out how to find out something like this through orders on some UKCs and elsewhere. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly that an analysis should be made of the implementation of the Public Procurement Act in order to establish a position of the mother labour body on this analysis. Of course, the Social Democrats will not oppose this decision, which is proposed, nor will we oppose the amendment of this law. Care for quality public health care and the definitive elimination of all irregularities and health violations must be a priority of this and every subsequent government in Slovenia. However, I personally believe that the Minister or Minister must be a protected person and that we will in fact eradicate these irregularities, the inadmissibility when the people who do not come from that crow quota are not excluded from the eyes. I come from Maribor alone. The Austrian Comparative KAGes gave 40 million to the information system, which at some point in time clearly sees what is going on in Austrian public health. In short, there is no need to detect hot water, but finally the policy must take over the policy of Slovenian public health. Regardless of governments in the last 30 years, this has not happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Koražija will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u120	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. In the previous interim report, I have noted, and now I can only repeat, all the findings are critical media at the time, and today, due to the ways of silence set by the country or the party, they no longer hope to report or talk about this subject, which is very difficult and one of the major problems concerning health care or medical equipment. That the conduct of both hospital administrations and individual doctors or other persons in charge of the purchase of medical devices is completely and effectively inadequate in most cases. And we all know that. Even when we listened to these Witnesses who came to our committee, the first thing that pierced a person’s ears is that there are constant problems with obeying legislation or regulations. And in fact it will be necessary to think in the direction that I have already said in the previous report how to change things. There are some things that have gone in the right direction. However, I think that this commission will have, even if it remains in the same composition as it is, or for the purpose of, the following term of office, still has work or a lot of work to do. In fact, the state of the hospitals that we have dealt with also indicates that some of the documents from these hospitals and the voices from the field and the media, as well as in other hospitals, are no better, says that they are also responsible and, above all, all political institutions of authority, objectively, some objectively, but also subjectively, all because they failed to absorb and cut off unethical practices. Only changes in the legislation will not help if we do not apply other criteria to the choice of jobs than simply acquired education and or belonging to a political option. The high ethical standards of the chosen individual, while continuing education and practical skills, regular questioning, some disciplined ethical supervision, will not go far. If the Commission focuses on the claim it has made as the basis of this report, it should be said that there has also been a non-transparent consumption of public funds due to the different prices of the same medical material at Slovenian hospitals. Our commission thus found that the prices of the same medical material were dependent on the supplier and the size of the hospital. The findings show that the same medical material was more expensive in certain cases due to the intervention of a particular supplier and the size of the hospital. The only problems with the non-transparent use of public funds in public procurement were not only the prices of individual medical materials but also poor business plans or poor supervision of the medical material used. The relevant parliamentary commission of inquiry has found that there have been enormous overpayments in hospitals of the value of public contracts determined by the decision to open a public contract. The provisions of the framework agreements can also be highlighted in this area, as they did not contain provisions on the possibility of extending the duration of the framework agreement with annexes on the basis of the procurement decisions. Nevertheless, almost in most cases the practice was that the duration of the framework agreement was extended by an annexation, which is contrary to legislation. An even greater problem is the fact that the annexes were signed without value and quantity. While the witnesses at the hearing claimed that this was not necessary, the price was determined by a public contract. Nevertheless, this fact cannot be held back because, as the Commission has also proved through the judgments of the courts, Annexes must contain these provisions. In any event, the parliamentary investigative committee concerned cannot, in its findings, avoid the suspicion of unlawful admission and awarding of various awards or gifts to healthcare professionals by suppliers. Our work has shown that such practices could further affect the choice of individual suppliers within public procurement. However, it is necessary to highlight some of the facts which are not sufficiently addressed by the report under consideration. I'll just start with the internal files. Of course, these internal acts are important. They need to be regulated, but this does not mean that actors entrusted with specific tasks, specific public procurement tasks, would not be able to carry out their public procurement tasks successfully and legally and in fact also to carry out matters under the legislative procedure as they should be held accountable for their actions or in this case of procurement. Because look at an ethical man, a worker with integrity who understands that he is in the service of all the people of the country, but he cannot persuade anything to work contrary to his conscience and in contravention of the law. The reasons for the infringement are therefore to be found in the personnel themselves, on the one hand in their ethical choices, and on the other hand there may also be insufficient knowledge of the legislation, which we have also learned many times at the hearing of this Commission. As we say, in Levica we will oppose this report. But it is true, as previously said, that this commission, in sayings, would unfortunately have to be a constant in the National Assembly, since we know that we have more than a major problem with the purchase or purchase of medical equipment and medical devices.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mrs Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, distinguished Vice-President of the National Assembly, colleague and colleague! At its first emergency meeting, held on 1 February 2019, the Commission decided unanimously to conduct a parliamentary inquiry into the implementation of child cardiology programmes. At the same time, it was agreed to conduct a second part of the parliamentary inquiry in the area of procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material. As a result of its extensive work, the Commission of Inquiry decided to initiate an investigation into the purchase and management of medical equipment and medical material at the General Hospital of Dr. Franca Derganca Nova Gorica. The interim report was considered by the National Assembly at its 24th meeting, on 13 July 2021. The findings were important for the use of public funds, the irrational and incorrect use of these, as the Court of Auditors also pointed out in 2004. The Commission of Inquiry carried out a difficult work, as it was necessary to obtain all the documentation and to hear the witnesses. This fulfilled the main purpose and reason for the establishment of investigative commissions, namely the purpose of the investigative commissions of findings and the assessment of the actual situation, which is the basis for amending legislation in a particular area. In the second part, the Commission continued with the work and examination of the Ortopeda Hospital Valdoltra, as this name often appeared in the investigation of Nova Gorica Hospital and came to various prices of medical devices. It is clear from the findings of the commission of inquiry that in Slovenia there is a lack of transparency in the procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material, according to the imprudent use of public money. It is therefore reasonable to consider further procedures for ensuring a common public procurement and price regulation system and introducing reference prices that will prevent such major price differences between public institutions as we have seen in the analysis of orthopaedic medical material at individual hospitals in Slovenia. The irregularity of the situation with regard to the purchase of medical equipment and the supervision of individuals over the purchase of individual medical material encouraged the Commission to propose a Public Procurement Act, ZJN-3C, on 13 January 2022 and was adopted. Members of New Slovenia - Christian Democrats will support today's report because the work done has shown weaknesses in our health system. True, when we hear that money for our health system is sufficient, control over consumption is bad and has many holes and interests. It is time to use this practice of exhausting our health system. The work carried out by the Commission of Inquiry has revealed these practices and they are set out in today's report, which is why everything now depends on the political will and the desire to control the use of public funds. In Novi Slovenije, we have written into the electoral programme under effective and cost-effective public procurement that the Public Procurement Act well defines procedures, key principles and that it is important that the system is adequately supported by information. The management of health institutions should be given the authority and responsibility to be able, under certain conditions, to conduct procurement procedures for healthcare materials also through direct negotiations with suppliers. Today's support for Members to the conclusions of the Commission of Inquiry and the report will certainly be a signal if we all really want the same thing, it is a successful, quality and functioning health care that is accessible under the same conditions to all. In Novi Slovenija we advocate an accessible and modern health care system, where we place the patient, his rapid and quality treatment. That is why we will support the decision and the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u124	Dear Vice-President, fellow Member and Member of Parliament! Health is a state of physical, mental and social well-being and not just the absence of the disease. It has to be quick to adapt to changes, so it's not too early to be vulnerable. Our health care must also be based on the principles of solidarity, fairness and accessibility in the future. The aim of the amendments is thus to maintain a widely accessible and quality public health sector based on the principles of solidarity, fairness and accessibility. In this mandate, the National Assembly adopted a number of acts establishing different parliamentary commissions. The investigation in question concerns the period from 1 January 2007 to the date of the parliamentary investigation, i.e. until 20 December 2018. The initiation of the investigation period is therefore more than 15 years away from today. This was the first stage of the Commission's consideration of the causes of the breakdown and decay of child heart surgery, and the second stage of its treatment, the irregularities in the procurement of medical and health equipment. In the first part, which dealt with the chaotic situation and in the final stage also the decline of child heart surgery, inadequate malpractice treatment and, to put it mildly, a strange way of purchasing medical equipment, medicines and devices. At the hearing, we were thus witnessing in the first phase a number of emotional confessions of the Witnesses invited, which involved inadequate treatment, as well as a number of arrogance and harassment of the superiors. The testimony confirmed the irregular and inappropriate relations between employees, the lack of personal integrity of some employees and the narcissistic absence of individuals and, most alarmingly, the total lack of interest of the hospital authorities, the boards of institutions, the heads of departments that have long tolerated such a situation. According to the findings of the report relating to the first part and the professional commission, despite the far-sighted lack of knowledge, the difficult function of the head of child heart surgery has been led by an under-experienced specialist or surgeon since 2013. The operation of the clinical centre during this period marked the domestic conclusion of contracts and the transfer of licences from foreign surgeons. In the second part, we discussed and focused mainly on irregularities and overpayments in the procurement of medical material and medical devices in various Slovenian hospitals. We can conclude that this practice is unfortunately widespread throughout the country. It is difficult to accept explanations from hospital management that they did not know the family connections between the contracting authorities and that they are not in their domain to deal with employees, with the costs of purchasing, materials and equipment. Such an attitude can only be understood that they did not want to deal with it. We must be aware that hospitals have a very demanding business and therefore require professional leadership, which is institutionally, financially and professionally committed to the hospital. Leadership, which is serious about the business and management of the hospital, should not have the time or energy to provide competitive services in other public institutions. He can only have it if he is not concerned with the problems of the hospital or the institution or is of the opinion that he is not competent to solve these problems. The health insurance company should also monitor what is being paid in the name of the patients, i.e. the insured. That is why we believe in the AB Party that we need to make order in health care and to divide our work in the public and private sectors so that their operation is transparent and the divide between them is clear. With centralisation and joint healthcare procurement for all public health institutions, we can prevent corruption and excessive prices. We will set standards for the use of materials in all public institutions in Slovenia. Unacceptably long waiting lines need to be brought into normal frameworks, so it will be necessary to prepare and prepare the necessary waiting lines reduction programme, to provide the necessary resources and to use all available resources through the cascade system. The absolute advantage is public health, followed by concessionaires, and ultimately by private individuals. In the covida epidemic, it was only by this way that strong public health was important, but we cannot help but feel that some practices have been repeated and even potentialised and that hospital management has acted on the line of least resistance. Hospitals and institutes paid the coronary supplements provided for in the collective agreement mainly for rare difficult cases of transmission of disease from animal to human beings, such as convulsions. If they could understand that healthcare professionals who were in direct contact with infected patients were entitled to the supplement, they also received supplements from those who did not work. In this respect, we stress that in Germany all the same annual allowances amounted to several hundred euros, and in Slovenia they ranged from a few hundred to more than ten thousand euros. In the AB Party, we therefore stress the need to eliminate the anomaly and once again to all public institutions to appoint professional management, which will deal exclusively with the challenges of hospitals, while at the same time requiring employees to have a high degree of integrity and integrity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u125	Thank you very much. As a last resort, Mrs Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! The Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the responsibilities of public function holders in the Child Cardiology Programme and in the field of procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material was established in December 2018 and covers the period of investigation from 2007 to 2018. Two interim reports have already been discussed in the pre-last year and last year. The report, which we are considering today, focuses on the second part of the investigation, in which the Commission focused its attention on public procurements carried out in Slovenian hospitals. Due to the scope of this area, it has focused on procurement and supply of orthopaedic medical material, namely the purchase and supply of hip braces. A detailed analysis of public procurement was made for General Hospital Dr. Franca Drganca Nova Gorica and Orthopedic Hospital Valdoltra. The purpose and objectives of this Commission of Inquiry were to identify the actual situation or practice in the procurement of medical equipment and medical material, the development of proposals for possible legislative changes, the potential political responsibility of public function holders in health institutions and others. By reviewing the material obtained by orthopaedic medical suppliers and by hospitals, the parliamentary commission of inquiry gained insight into the prices at which the same orthopaedic material was supplied to various Slovenian hospitals. This finding was, in addition to finding out how public procurement was carried out in Slovenian hospitals, a key objective set by the Commission of Inquiry in its work. This allowed it to accept, in the event of irregularities identified, the basis which further allows for the regulation of the area concerned, namely public procurement, to be carried out in the future in accordance with the applicable legislation, thus preventing overpayments in the Slovenian health system and the illegal outflow of tax money. On the basis of the material examined, the analysis and the hearings carried out, the Commission has come up with evidence that unquestionably proves that there has been a situation between 2007 and 2018 in the field of public procurement and thus overpayment of orthopaedic medical material, which means more money for suppliers and less for patients. The health situation, as we have all determined for many years, is not good. For many years, there have been anomalies in the field of public procurement. Thus, in the analysis of the implementation of public procurement orders for orthopaedic medical material at the General Hospital of Dr. Franca Derganca Nova Gorica and at the Orthopaedic Hospital of Valdoltra, some findings have been made which need to be highlighted as a practice that does not constitute an economic and transparent treatment of public finances in Slovenian hospitals and shows the lack of order of public procurement and the purchase and management of medical material and equipment. We can understand from the conclusions of the Commission's report that there was a great problem in the execution of public contracts in hospitals, among other things, with inadequate internal public procurement acts or even the fact that they did not have hospitals at all. As a result, there has been inadequate communication between employees and overstepping their powers. One of the objectives of the parliamentary investigative commission was to make proposals for legislative changes if it proved necessary. And it turned out that way. Last June, at its 24th regular meeting, the National Assembly discussed the second interim report of this parliamentary commission of inquiry and adopted both essential findings and a conclusion which was still relevant for the preparation and subsequent adoption of the Law on Public Procurement, ZJN-3C. This has directly met one of the reasons why parliamentary investigations are directed, namely to identify and assess the actual situation that may be the basis for legislative changes in a particular area. In the Group of Members, we are particularly pleased that the Commission in question has come up with concrete proposals and solutions and that, on the basis of this, a law has been adopted to improve the state of public health procurement. ZJN-3C, which was received this year on the basis of the conclusions of this Commission of Inquiry, introduced the concept of a reference price, which should have a significant impact on the reduction of prices in the health sector. The law therefore regulates the purchase prices of medical devices and medical equipment by means of a system of reference prices. This will bring about a reduction in the prices of medical equipment on the Slovenian market and a more transparent operation of public health institutions by equating purchase prices in public institutions at all levels. However, since each law is best demonstrated in practice, the members of the Parliamentary Commission propose that we adopt the following decision: “The National Assembly proposes that after 18 months of implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, the ZJN-3C, the Ministry of which operates the Office referred to in Article 9 of UNJN-3C, prepare an analysis of the implementation of UNJN-3C and on the legal basis of the adopted sub-legislations in practice, with proposals for any necessary amendments and additions to the UNJN and others with the subject of the related legislation, and forward it to the national working body of the National Assembly, which forms a position on the analysis.” In the Group of Members, we will, in particular, support these proposals of law as well as the final substantive findings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the essential findings and on the proposal for a decision. I note that only one debater has been reported to the debate, that is Mrs Mojca Žnidarič, so I give her my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Maybe I'll just add a few more words, or I've already said a lot in my position. I am pleased that our Commission has acted very constructively, apolitically, almost unanimously, especially in this second part of the investigation, led by Mrs Mag. Carmen Furman, so on this occasion, I thank our President for the work she has done and also for leading the Commission, which has led to such solutions and also constructive and concrete proposals, as I have said. On the basis of our work, there was also a law on changing the public procurement of medical equipment into health care. We were really looking for systemic solutions. We did not go about discrediting individuals or putting names on the reports at any time, but our key goal was to find systemic solutions to improve the situation in the case of public health procurement. This decision, which is proposed today, which we will also vote on on on Wednesday, also makes great sense to me that after 18 months of marriage, the law and sub-laws will be analysed and we will see what we are really dealing with. I'm sure the law will contribute to lowering prices for the purchase of medical supplies. What else do I say? I am pleased that I have been a member of this committee, which has concrete results, because it goes to other commissions, as we have seen today, more to some political discrediting of one or the other, but here I think we have really acted constructively and also had real and concrete results. Thank you to the president and all the other members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-21-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, I note that we are concluding the debate and that there is no desire for further sharing of the time left. I therefore note that the National Assembly took note of the Progress Report and the findings of the responsibilities of the public procurement and management function holders in the field of medical equipment and medical material and of the reasons for the incomplete parliamentary investigation. The assembly will decide on the essential findings of these proposals for a decision on Wednesday, 23 March, in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate this agenda item and also the 30th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed on Wednesday at 9 a.m. Have a nice day.
