ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! I'm starting with the 30th meeting of the National Assembly. This volume, okay, it's a little loud. [[…]] I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Franc Jurša, Karmen Furman, Nada Brinovšek, Lidija Ivanuša, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Nick Prebil, mag. Dejan the Jew from 12 o'clock on, mag. Meira Hot by 2 p.m., Dr. Franc Trček, Matjaž Han, Jure Ferrjan, mag. Bojana Mursic from 12 o'clock on, Jerca Korča, Tomaž Lisec, mag. Elena Zavadlav Ušaj, Franc Rosec, Eva Irgl, Aljaž Kovacič, Soniboj Prince, Just Bevk, mag. Alenka Bratušek and Brane Golubović. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, that is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law amending the law on social security benefits within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of eight Members and first-signed Miho Kordiš. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body at its 39th meeting on 1 March 2022. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u2	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, a good day! Social Democrats, we have supported the amendment of the law to renovate the outdated way of determining the minimum cost of living on the parent's working body. If the novelties were adopted on the Committee, the new minimum cost of living would be set at least every three years instead of every six years, as currently provided for in the Social Security Benefits Act. A more frequent assessment of the minimum cost of living would thus lead to more realistic basic cost of living, which would also reflect much more the current trend in prices of basic goods than is the case today. The minimum cost of living depends mainly on the level of minimum wage and social transfers. The Minister responsible for work must thus, taking into account other factors, set a minimum wage between 120 per cent and 140 per cent of the minimum cost of living. The amount of the minimum wage for 2022 fixed by the Minister of Labour in January of this year was determined on the basis of the 2017 calculation, based on the data on the prices of living necessities in 2016. Since this period, the cost of living has been steadily increased and the calculation of the cost of living set out in 2017 is no longer a correct and fair data to determine the amount of the minimum wage in 2022. Even before the war in Ukraine, we have been plagued by great encouragement from basic needs, especially energy and food. According to data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia from January this year, bread and cereal products were thus raised by 6.3%, milk by 6.7%, fruit by 10.7%, and energy and heating costs by 11.7%. As a result of Russian military aggression, we are now faced with an additional enormous increase in gas and oil, which will further exacerbate people's distress and energy poverty. It is probably not necessary to specifically explain that, with unrealistic and outdated estimates of basic cost of living, we are reducing the income of the lowest paid workers and their families, who are living with a major problem with minimum wage. That is why, in the last year, we have repeatedly, even with the reference to the urgent meeting of the Labour Committee, publicly called on Minister Cigler King to give us an immediate determination of the new level of minimum living costs, thus allowing for a more appropriate and realistic level of minimum wage and social transfers. Despite our repeated calls, none of this has happened. The worst paid workers and workers continue to face higher prices and high prices of basic living needs and beat the edge of the bell at the power plant. The current ruling coalition boasts, however, of energy vouchers to which the minimum wage recipients are not entitled at all and of the amendments to the Income Act, of which they will actually have the richest and the minimum wage people will receive only a few fines. Social Democrats will continue to make a strong and determined effort to raise the minimum wage to a level that will allow decent living for workers and workers. Therefore, we will continue to support the renovation of the model of calculation of the minimum cost of living, which we believe must reflect the real trend in the prices of basic living needs, in particular the prices of food and energy. Therefore, it would be more appropriate if the cost of living were found more frequently and at least every three years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u4	Kordish is in the original, where my father comes from, who moved from Dolenjska to Gorenjska, and then there's a vote and it's pronounced Kordiš, not Kordiš anymore. So, welcome also on my behalf and on behalf of the Levica Group, which stands as a proponent for today's welcome initiative, this is a more frequent calculation of the minimum cost of living, which, on our initiative, would be calculated immediately and then calculated every three years and not six years as is currently the case. The minimum cost of living is a statistical figure that is supposed to show how much the average household in this country needs to break through from the beginning to the end of the month. Translated in individual, the number is set at EUR 613. But this number is old. He's been insisting on a lot too low for a long time. It was calculated in 2017 on the basis of data from 2015 and 2016. What this means in relation to the cost of living for real working and poor households, we can imagine it in numbers. During the first five months of this year alone, food has become further intensely irritated and will obviously continue to irritate. Fruits grew by 8%, vegetables grew by 7%, potatoes by 25%. Bread prices rose, along with basic foods such as oil, fat, vinegar, sugar. The basic raw materials have increased – wheat, maize, soybeans and meat by up to 30% – is said to be a poor third. The price of oil has risen by 60 %. Dragina is also announced in the field of meat products. And we haven't seen all these price increases at this rate in this country in 20 years. The 16 months in a row of food prices in trade go up, while the estimated minimum cost of living insists on the number of already mentioned EUR 613. You may wonder what this statistical assessment of the minimum cost of living is for survival. In our system this figure is translated as the basis for calculating such a minimum wage, says workers with the lowest remuneration, which, under the law of the Left, as we successfully brought through the National Assembly a few years ago in the initial part of the current mandate, must always exceed 20% of the minimum cost of living. At the same time, the minimum cost of living is also the basis from which social transfers are accounted for, such as monetary social assistance. Thus, the minimum cost of living, the way they are calculated, the frequency of this calculation and the final amount directly affect the income of the working households that have lost their jobs and must rely on monetary social assistance, as well as directly on the beneficiaries of the minimum wage, because the amount of minimum wage in the calculation mechanism is attributed to this minimum cost of living. Of course, a much more realistic picture of household expenditure would be obtained if these minimum cost of living were not charged every six years, but every three years. That is exactly what we have proposed in Levica with this initiative, and we will continue to do so in advance. Not only because food prices are being auctioned, but also because of energy poverty, which is particularly felt by poor households, is the result of the collapse of purchasing power in their basic-food wallets. Remember, for months we talked about how many heating points have grown, which have also risen by 100 euros, in some cases even 200 euros. And, of course, working households can't afford these costs at all. The main mechanism that the country has to systematically and systematically regulate and raise labour revenues, especially at the time of inflation and rising expensiveness, is precisely these minimum living costs that I repeat, both monetary social assistance and the level of minimum wage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Tadeja Šuštar Zalar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we strive to ensure that everyone who works receives a fair payment and should not be poor. But we realize that there are also people who cannot help themselves, and we owe it to them to help. The Ministry responsible for social protection must, on the basis of a comparable methodology at least every six years, determine the minimum cost of living. If the difference between the level of the new and the most recent short-term minimum cost of living exceeds 15%, the Ministry must fix a new amount of the basic amount of the minimum income. The proposal provides that the Ministry, on the basis of a comparable methodology at least every three years, should determine the minimum cost of living. It is also envisaged that, in order to determine the new amount of the basic amount of the minimum income, the newly calculated amount of the short-term minimum cost of living should exceed by 15 % the applicable amount of the short-term minimum cost of living. The proposer introduced the law only three months before its possible entry into force. He predicted that the Ministry responsible for social protection should be up to 1. 1. 2022 determine the minimum cost of living. The last such research took 10 months and it would be unrealistic to expect that this time it will only be done within three months if we want the research to be integrated and include all meaningful components. In addition, the proposal foresees that the minimum cost of living may also be reduced and that this would also reduce the basic amount of minimum income. In times of crisis, this would be very risky, as the weak could be significantly reduced in income. For this reason and because it is impossible to carry out research in such a short period of time, we did not support the proposal for a law in Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats on the home working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to all present! As in many countries, food prices in Slovenia rose already in 2020. The trend continued in 2021. Food increased by 4% and so strongly affected inflation, which was 4.9%. Unfortunately, the trend of irritation continues in 2022. According to previous forecasts, we will be hit by a five - to - ten - percent boost this year. I would like to point out that this prediction was before the last irritations of energy and before the war in Ukraine. It is justified to conclude that today’s inspiration is only the beginning of enormous food stimulation. The reasons can be found at higher prices of energy, raw materials, packaging, including labour, disrupted or completely stopped supplies. Such extensive food promotions have not occurred in Slovenia for more than 20 years, as food prices have been rising steadily for almost a second year. There is no doubt that rising food prices has a significant impact on household status and thus on the state of poverty in Slovenia. Following the current legislation, the competent ministry is obliged to determine at least every six years the minimum cost of living. If the difference between the level of the new and the most recent short-term minimum cost of living exceeds 15%, the Ministry must fix a new amount of the basic amount of the minimum income. However, the proposed amendment, which did not receive sufficient support on the Committee, amends the period for determining the minimum cost of living, at least every three years, and removes the condition that, in order to determine the new amount of the basic amount of minimum income, the newly calculated amount of short-term minimum cost of living should exceed by 15 % the applicable amount of short-term minimum cost of living. The condition, as set out now, prevents, according to the applicant, the effects of a more frequent calculation of the minimum cost of living and the more systematic monitoring of the minimum needs of the population are unnecessary. We are not voting on this proposal today, but on behalf of the Desus Group, I would like to stress that policy and action in recent years, including the previous governments, even during the economic and current health crisis, has been strongly focused on the social transfer system. We must recognise that many changes have been made in this area, which have had a positive impact mainly on the most vulnerable groups of the population. Neither during these crises has there been a reduction in financial social assistance, nor has there been major interventions in other social transfers that could have affected the most vulnerable groups. On the other hand, the number of beneficiaries of monetary social assistance is not decreasing. The current inflation and forecasting of the economic crisis certainly change the picture of poverty in Slovenia too quickly. All of this, however, represents a major challenge that will have to be tackled by activities in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u10	Good afternoon, president and everyone else! Last week we witnessed a school sentence. I'm not gonna talk about whether it was right or wrong. The fact is that the State has to pay a lot of people to get a minimum wage for honest work each month on its transaction account. According to recent data, more than 600,000 people are expected to be below or below the poverty threshold. I can safely say that every third Slovenian deals daily with the question of whether to pay the bill or buy food. We listen daily to the cost of rising, the cost of food becoming more expensive. The predictions for the future are not exactly promising. The minimum cost basket was set in 2016 and amounted to 613.41 euros. In accordance with current legislation, this will be redefined this year. In six years, a lot has changed. After all, we have witnessed the last two or three years of two events that have turned our lives upside down overnight. The last, the war, certainly brings unreasonable dimensions. The idea of Left that the time when the amount of minimum cost of living is re-determined, we support the halves, but unfortunately we do not have a member on the committee and we were unable to support it there, but we certainly support it. It would also be useful to add a provision that, in the event of an emergency such as an epidemic and war, the amount may be recalculated earlier. After all, this amount is also linked to the amount of the minimum wage and much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Marijan Pojbič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u12	Your Honor! The proposer proposes an amendment to Article 8 of the Social Security Benefits Act so that the competent ministry must establish minimum cost of living for at least every three years. The current regime requires this for every six years, so that the Ministry will re-establish a new level of minimum costs in 2023 after the current regulation. The applicant points out that, according to the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, in the course of the last year alone, the annual assessment of life needs increased by 2.4 %. The adoption of the proposed amendment of the law is intended to improve the response of the social state, as the applicant believes that a more frequent calculation of the minimum cost of living would establish a realistic state in line with the actual needs of the population. The rise in prices of basic food and food products in general has a real impact on the economic status of households and thus on the state of poverty in Slovenia, so the current government has helped individuals and families by providing social assistance that has increased in recent years. It should be said that, on the basis of the published index of consumer price increases in the period January–December 2021, the annual entitlements of 4,9 % increased by 4,9 %, as well as the amounts of the child allowance and the State grant and the State grant supplements. These amounts were last agreed to on 1 March 2022. In order to harmonise the basic amount of the minimum income, the amount of the financial social assistance granted and the security allowance increased accordingly on 1 April 2022. The amounts of funerals, post-mortems and extraordinary financial social assistance have also increased. The new amount of the basic amount of the minimum income, the financial social assistance shall apply as from 1 April 2022, which means that the applications lodged in March 2022 or the decision under the official obligation for rights expiring in March 2022 shall apply. The social security of the population has been adequately ensured in the manner described. If a new amount of minimum cost of living were to be fixed at 1. 1. 2022, as proposed by the proposer, would mean that the amount of the minimum wage for 2022 would only be known from 1. 4. 2022, which is contrary to the principle of legal certainty. It took 10 months to carry out the latest survey on minimum cost of living, and this is not possible in any case. In view of the above in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we do not think that such a proposed solution is appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Andreja Zabret will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, President. Colleagues and colleagues! Two weeks ago, on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, we decided on a proposal for a law on social security benefits, which would establish a more systematic, more frequent and regular calculation of the minimum cost of living. This would ensure a better and realistic, coordinated review of the needs of the population, to which the State is obliged under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia to provide social security. The law would provide that the Ministry of Labour, on the basis of a comparable methodology at least every three years and not more than six years, as is now the case, should determine the amount of the minimum cost of living. In addition, the condition that the new amount of the minimum income base should be set at a new calculated rate of 15 % of the short-term minimum cost of living should exceed the applicable amount of the short-term minimum cost of living. The Ministry of Labour should also establish the minimum cost of living by 15 April this year on the basis of a comparable methodology. If the difference between the level of the new and the latest short-term minimum cost of living were found, the new amount of the basic amount of the minimum income should be determined. We support such a solution in the LMŠ because we are aware of the current situation in the country when we face high exposures to goods and services. This has the greatest impact on the poorest part of the population. As the bill's proponent has also pointed out, food in our country was on the rise already in 2020, and the trend of imitation continued in the past year. During the first five months of last year, fruit was raised by 8%, vegetables by 7%, potatoes by about 15%. The prices of bread and pastry, meat, oil, fat, vinegar, sugar rose. This year, prices of February's living needs increased on average by 6.9% in our country and 1.4% in January. Such a situation requires a response from the State. In addition to the consequences of measures to mitigate the effects of the coronavirus pandemic, we cannot ignore the current war in Ukraine, the consequences of which will also be reflected in an even greater rise in fuel prices and other energy and food prices. The amount of minimum cost of living affects the amount of minimum wage and social transfers. The amount of the minimum wage shall be fixed between 120 and 140 % of the minimum cost of living, wage movements, economic conditions or economic growth and employment, by reference to tax rules allowing for the determination of the gross amount of the minimum wage. In our country we currently have certain minimum cost of living from 2017, based on data from 2015 and 2016. Unfortunately, with a bill to help the poorest inhabitants of our country, we have failed. The Coalition Members simply decided that, despite the economic and social consequences of the epidemic, rising food prices and other basic necessities of life, a more frequent calculation of the minimum cost of living would not be necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law supplementing the law on foreigners within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was submitted to the Council of State for consideration. At its 30th meeting, on 15 February 2022, the draft law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. As the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! The purpose of the amendment to the law on the amendment of the Law on Foreigners is a somewhat distorted equation of that novel which we have put into the parliamentary procedure in the Group of the Left. The aim is to eliminate the harmful changes of the Foreigners Act in the field of foreign students from third countries, which prevent the continuation of studies to many students and students in Slovenia and prevent the admission of many new students to Slovenian universities. As evidence of the fulfilment of the condition of sufficient means of subsistence in the amount of the basic amount of minimum income in the Republic of Slovenia, a novel proposed by the State Council would reinstate the written declaration of the student or student's parents or of the legal representative that they would survive it during the study if, under the law of the State of which the citizen or citizen is a national, he/she was obliged to survive. In short, the purpose of the novel is to supplement Article 44 of the existing Foreign Act and thus facilitate the granting of temporary residence permits to third-country nationals arriving in the Republic of Slovenia for the purpose of education. The changes introduced by the government are harmful, as they threaten already registered foreign students of third countries, especially those of the former Yugoslavia. In obtaining a residence permit, an amount of EUR 4 000 800 is required at the time of the application. The government law is double discriminatory as it introduced a distinction between citizens of the European Union and third-country nationals and a distinction between material and socially weaker students, which is absolutely unacceptable, since the right to education is one of fundamental human rights and freedoms and must not become a property privilege. The fact is that the changed conditions in practice present an unreasonablely high and often insurmountable obstacle to a student and divide students on the basis of their economic and social status. Amendments to the law have put these students in a difficult social situation, and their recently completed educational path has been severely interrupted. The new conditions and inequalities that have been introduced have not been really justified. Negative social and social impacts were also not presented. Finally, the question is also why such a change was necessary if there were no problems with the current regulation on temporary stay. The Ministry of the Interior's explanation that the amendment was introduced due to the European Directive does not hold and is a simple manipulation, a front for the xenophobic policies of this government, since the European Directive, which was introduced into Slovenia's legal order by means of a new Law on Foreigners, does not require such verification of the available financial resources anywhere but makes it possible. But if you want to enforce more xenophobic policies than we've already practiced under this government, every excuse comes right, even when it comes to Minister Hojs, who has become more famous on Twitter these days with explicit racism, when he explained to us the difference between refugees from Ukraine and those coming from the Middle East, Africa, third world countries. In Levika we insist, the problem of foreign students, which has been cooked by the government of Janez Janša for its daily ideological needs, needs to be resolved, resolved. But since the government and its coalition continue to insist on their xenophobic policies, the bill has not received sufficient support and foreign students will continue to be discriminated against, thanks to this coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Andrej Černigoj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u18	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Respectable and esteemed assembly! The Republic of Slovenia has transposed the Directive of the European Union on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, traineeships, volunteer work, student exchange programmes or educational projects and the work of ou pair guards with the current amendment of the Law on Foreigners into national law. The current government amendment of the Aliens Act has brought about an amendment whereby a student – a third-country national wishing to obtain a temporary residence permit in Slovenia can no longer prove sufficient means of survival only by a written statement from a student's parents in order to survive it during the course of the study. With the new amendment adopted, the coalition has set clear conditions that can be verified. In Novi Slovenije we would like to reiterate that the latest novel has changed only the way of showing funds for foreign students who will still be able to demonstrate the funds received by their parents or their legal representative, since the funds shown for the decent life of a foreign student in the Republic of Slovenia after the adoption of the amendment of the Law on Foreigners are already being checked by the competent authority – an administrative unit which has the opportunity to check the funds in the account of parents or legal representatives. The opponents of the proposed novel wanted to present the situation to the public as alarming, which turned out to be unfounded. Some institutes, which have been declared politically independent and impartial, have already announced, after the elections, the deletion of the current novel of the Law on Foreigners. A law that works in practice would be annulled, but let it be understood who can. Christian Democrats are not subject to ultimatums, but we swear on the facts that we can understand from the last school year and have already been presented on the committee by our colleague, Polnar. In the study year 2020/2021 there were 7 000 681 foreign students and in the study year 2021/2022 there were 7 000 968 students, i.e. 287 more students. The first thesis of opponents of the law was not confirmed, it was not confirmed. When we talk about the structure of the enrolled students, most Croatians are followed by Bosnians, Northern Macedonia and Serbia. All these countries have more than a thousand students in Slovenia. In fifth place is Italy with 247 students, followed by Montenegro with 236 and Kosovo with 224 students. It is clear that the proportion of students from the countries of the former Yugoslavia is dominant. The proportion of students from other European Union countries does not exceed one third of all students. Thus, we can also reject the second thesis that the number of students from the former Yugoslavia will decrease. Today's redraft proposal for the Act on the Supplementation of Foreigners, which has not received sufficient support on the parental committee for the second time, rejects the current regulation regarding the clear proof of the conditions of sufficient resources. We believe that only those reasons are valid enough for us to vote against the adoption of the Law on the Complementation of Foreigners in Novi Slovenija – Christian Democrats on the Mother Labour Body.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u20	Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! First, I must reiterate my regret that the proposed solutions to the Foreigners Act have not been adopted. They would remove the harsher conditions for admission of students from third countries to Slovenian universities, which were included in the law less than a year ago. The Novela was adopted on a proposal from the Government, and the Government did not in any way substantiate the proposed solution by any extent the abuse of student status. Their intentions could still be understood if, on the basis of statistics, they proved that there were a crowd of foreign students in Slovenia who had a single goal of gaining status and then using it as a criminal act. Of course, these statistics are not available, and the Government has simply exercised its power and has brought its rejection of foreigners into the legal provision. Students from third countries must, in accordance with the arrangements in force, demonstrate in advance sufficient means of survival for the entire duration of the study. This means, in fact, that before obtaining a temporary residence permit, they must have sufficient resources in their bank account, which in practice amounts to EUR 5,000. This can pose an insurmountable obstacle for the vast majority of students — especially those crossing from the former Yugoslavia. We must be aware and accept the fact that Slovenia is not the target country for studying students from so-called rich countries and that we are also pushing away with such a measure those young students who have recognized Slovenia as a place worth creating. We must be aware that young people are the largest capital and that in the near future, universities in our neighbourhood can pay candidates for the costs associated with the study and thus attract them. And this is happening indirectly and also directly. Some private higher education institutions that behave to educate for deficient professions have concluded contracts with foreign employers and aggressively attract students to study. It is also not rare road posters which our students invite to Graz or Celovac. Let us ask ourselves who will send the child to study and where he will send him, if he has a choice to be paid for all the costs of the study. In the event of demographic change, when young people are already lacking, attracting highly qualified ones is one of the necessary measures to mitigate these consequences. The Germans well know that a skilled workforce is needed for economic growth. The current law prevents some from continuing studies with us and prevents new students from entering the law. The fact is that the new provision of the law in practice has caused quite a bit of confusion. Various interpretations have emerged, and foreign students are frightened and disappointed because many will be unable to study with us. Before the amendment proposed by the Ministry of the Interior, foreign students were able to demonstrate sufficient means of subsistence through written statements by parents or legal representatives. The solutions proposed were therefore followed by the previous arrangements. Representatives of academic circles are also critical to such arrangements. As early as June 2021, the Slovenian Student Organisation called on the Ministry of the Interior to approach the changes to the law and remove such conditions. They warn that as many as a dozen students in Slovenia are foreign students, so our country will be deprived of a large share of intellectual potential. Finally, such legal arrangements will have a negative impact on Slovenia's reputation in the region and beyond. In fact, we have not heard any strong arguments from the government to justify stricter conditions; only that the European directive allows them to do so. At the same time, in the SAB, we are also negatively surprised by the passivity of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and the Minister of Education, Dr Kustec, from whom we would expect her to defend herself for an equally accessible study. More than apparently, it was silently subordinated to the politics of the largest government party. Foreign students at Slovenian universities no doubt mean added value and contribution to development. As a rule, these are excellent students who bring intellectual potential to Slovenia. We supported the changes in the law in the SAB, but unfortunately there was not enough support. As social liberals, we advocate an open and accessible study, because we want Slovenia to become an open and equal country with a view to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! A year ago, last March, a new Law on Foreigners was adopted, which was proposed by the Government. Among other things, it has intervened somewhat in the conditions to be met by foreigners in education in the Republic of Slovenia. It has triggered a lot of opposition in both the public and the Members. Last September, a group of Members and Members tried to supplement the current law to remedy the impact of the adopted amendment, but this bill concluded its path already on the working body, on the Committee on Home Affairs, public administration and local self-government. This time, a similar addition to the Foreigners Act was proposed by the State Council and experienced the same fate. The Council of State states that by adopting the amendment, it has negatively changed the situation of foreign students and students, since it has made it more difficult and difficult to meet the conditions they must meet to obtain a residence permit and education permit in Slovenia. The previous arrangement allowed third-country students to demonstrate the required resources for survival only and only through written statements by parents or legal representatives who are obliged to survive, and after the novel adoption, students should have shown their full existence by one year in advance before the study. The purpose of the bill is therefore to slightly modify the provision to demonstrate compliance with the conditions of sufficient means for the survival of third-country students. In the view of the applicant, it is reasonable to re-establish the possibility that the student may demonstrate sufficient means of subsistence only by a written statement from the parents or legal representatives, who, under the law of the State of which he is a national, are obliged to survive, as was the case before the amendments to the law. If this does not happen, then the State Council predicts that the number of foreign students in Slovenian higher schools and universities will be significantly reduced. This also means a severe blow to the Slovenian educational system, which cannot stand without international integration and the resulting universally recognised international reputation. As it is said, the law was adopted at the end of March last year, and the new study year began about six months after its entry into force. Therefore, in the Desus Group, we asked whether at least some of the apocalyptic predictions had been fulfilled that the number of foreign students at Slovenian universities would be significantly reduced after the law was enacted, and whether the internationalisation of the study had been significantly compromised in any form. According to the Ministry of Education and Science and Sport, the opposite has happened. The number of foreign students enrolled has increased. In the study year 2020/2021, before the adoption of the Law on Foreigners, we enrolled 7,000 681 foreign students, and in the current study year there were 7 000 968, that is, 287 more. In particular, the fear was expressed that the number of foreign students coming from the countries of the former Yugoslavia, with the exception of Croatia, which is a member of the European Union, would be significantly reduced. Here, too, the facts are inexcusable. The number of students enrolled increased from 4 thousand 43 in the previous study year to 4 thousand 173 in the current study year, that is 130 more. The number of foreign students is growing rapidly in our country. Thus, in the last ten years, it has grown from 937 foreign students in the 2010/2011 study year to, as mentioned above, 7 000 681 in the 2020/2021 study year, more than eight times as many. Prognosis by law-makers has thus proved to be a difficult beating of empty straw. Yet more came the expression of apriorous opposition to everything and to everyone for the sake of self - opposition. If facts say otherwise, so much worse for the facts. Or will someone learn something useful from all this misery? We'll see about that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u24	Your Honor! The aim of the bill is to eliminate the negative consequences of the New Aliens Act, which is intended to exacerbate the way foreigners prove livelihoods in our country. Thus, the proposer wants only a written statement by parents to be sufficient for foreign students as evidence of sufficient means of living in Slovenia. However, we do not agree with this and insist that foreign students have to demonstrate, in a reasoned manner, the existence of the means they need to live. Just one statement, perhaps written in a joke, cannot suffice or is not relevant proof that the funds really exist. The facts are that our country is becoming more attractive for foreign students, so their share is increasing year after year. Slovenia must first take care of Slovenian students. Public finances must also be taken care of, as we cannot just spend these funds at once. The same rules apply to Slovenian students who go abroad. I don't know if anyone can imagine a Slovenian student going to Oxford without his own resources. I don't understand where that came from. To put it domestically, he went to study inside the country who had something under his thumb, and the others went to work. Not until the study was abroad. When our citizens go abroad, everyone agrees with their rules, but when it comes to third-country nationals, they should have a door wide open and we should bow to them. That's not how it works. Foreign students come from over 120 countries, which tells us a lot about our small Slovenia and our first-class educational institutions. The vast majority of them come from European countries, mostly from countries of the former Yugoslavia and from EU members, but also from the United States of America and Canada, with an increasing number from year to year. In the Slovenian National Party, the problem is that if they stay with us even after the study has been completed, this means a few jobs for Slovenians. But I don't know if they want to stay with us then, or if our country is just a stepping stone to the road to other countries. In addition, students have the opportunity to receive funding from Erasmus+, which supports the mobility of individuals and the international partnership. I tell you, however, that in the Slovenian National Party, we will take care of the welfare of the Slovenian people first and then of foreigners everywhere. But the fact is that people are no longer as indifferent as they were years ago, because every year there are always new ideas about how we have to accept foreigners, and this has begun to disturb Slovenian citizens fairly. The principle of the social state, or humanitarianism, achieves equality; and we fear that this summit has already been exceeded in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Andreja Zabret will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, President. Colleagues and colleagues! The bill would eliminate the unfair regulation on the exercise of sufficient means of subsistence for foreign students, which entered into force with the government amendment to the Foreigners Act adopted in spring 2021, which we strongly opposed in the LMŠ. The latter has considerably exacerbated the living conditions for foreign students who want to study at one of Slovenia's higher education institutions. In our view, this is unacceptable, since any further unjustified exacerbation of the conditions that make it difficult for young people to access education and constitutes an obstacle to the successful internationalisation of higher education, is contrary to several laws and State documents adopted in the field of education. In July 2021, in the opposition, we prepared and tabled a proposal for a law that would bring back the previous, more life-form, and the coalition did not have a hearing for it. A number of higher education stakeholders, including the Rector's Conference, supported the bill at that time. Despite broad professional support, the proposal did not receive sufficient support from Members and Members and concluded the legislative procedure. This time, the proposal for a law with the same solution was tabled by the State Council. And this one didn't get enough support either. So until today, from Minister Hojs, we still have not received adequate explanations to prove that foreign students are at risk of the Slovenian social system and that such legislation is justified. The reference to the directive at the time of the adoption of the government novel was also extremely misleading, since the State itself can decide how or by what measures it will achieve its objectives. It is also sad that neither the Minister responsible for education has been defined to date. Actually, it's her department. In the current legal order, there remains a law which imposes unjustified differences not only between students from the European Union and those from third countries but also between the socially weak and the wealthy.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u28	Thank you very much, President, for your word. The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Foreigners, which changes the conditions for the exercise of sufficient resources for students – third-country nationals – today unfortunately ends the legislative path without a vote. At the 67th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, the Law on Foreigners was adopted at the end of March 2021, which implemented the European Union Directive on entry conditions and conditions of residence of third-country nationals for research, study, traineeship, volunteer work, student exchange programmes or educational projects and the work of teachers. This novel has brought about a significant change in the way in which funds are shown for those foreign students or students for whom there is a legal obligation to live by their parents or their legal representatives. The Novela has abolished the possibility that a student or a student may have sufficient means of survival by means of a written declaration from his parents, who, under the law of the State of which he is a national, are obliged to survive. Before us is a new law that eliminates these negative consequences of the Law on Foreigners, which poses an unreasonable obstacle to the continuation or start-up of education in the Republic of Slovenia, or the restoration of the regime to the original state, as it was before the adoption of the Law on Foreigners of March 2021, by re-energizing the proof of sufficient means of survival, including through written statements by the parents or legal representatives of students and students, that they will also survive it during education. This time, the marriage proposal was drafted in the State Council and we, the Social Democrats, are extremely pleased to have recognized their mistake and the error of the outgoing government. Unfortunately, MPs and coalition members do not recognize the positive aspects of internationalisation of higher education. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we have been monitoring data on unpleasant demographics in Slovenia and labour shortages, not only of unskilled workers or middle-aged workers, but also of highly educated staff. Given that we are also an ageing society, our goal should be to have young people come to Slovenia, of course, learn Slovenian during the study, learn our culture and thus become more involved in our society and contribute with their knowledge and work to our development. One year of study, respected and respected, we have already missed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the defence of the proposal to supplement the State Assembly's employer within the framework of the summary procedure. The proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly was tabled by a group of 38 Members and Members with the first signed Maša Kociper. At its 7th urgent meeting on 3 March 2022, the Commission considered the draft act as a working body. In the absence of the adoption by the committee of articles of the draft act after the discussion, consideration of the draft Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly was completed at the meeting of the working body. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are also repeatedly referred to as small parliamentary constitutions, as they govern the organisation and work of the National Assembly and the exercise of the rights and duties of Members and Members, and are adopted and amended by a two-thirds majority. In the SAB party, together with the co-proposers – party LMŠ, SD, SNS and the Group of Non-Aligned Members – we have prepared a minimal amendment, in fact merely complementing the existing Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, where we have supplemented the existing article with one sentence by adding a sentence that reads: “A Member who is a member of the parliamentary group of the same name list or parliamentary party on the list of which he has been elected, from the date of the termination of membership of the political party or the same list of names shall cease to be a member of the parliamentary group.” So, in our system, the parliamentary system where we have a proportional electoral system, it must be clear to everyone that most Members are running for the National Assembly on a list or a list of parliamentary parties, as it has always been. And given the position of this party, of course, you have been elected as a Member in a certain place. It is said that this link between the party that is running for office, which has a programme that has some values, which has some perspectives, which has some political direction in the direction in which the government will participate, and is clear to the candidates at this stage. Then the Member was elected and, as was the case in this mandate, what we saw in this national assembly for the first time and what is not actually happening in the world, then it happened that a Member had stepped out of the party in which he was elected, but he did not want to leave the party's parliamentary group. This in practice led to situations where voters did not know who or what such a Member represents. Whether it represents the program, the values and direction of the party she has run for office and on which list she has been elected, or now it represents something and someone else, some other values, some other views. This, of course, is particularly obvious when a party, as in the case of Desus, represented one position, claimed to be in the opposition; while the members of that party voted in favour of the government, which is a significant deviation from some minimum hygiene, which provides for some predictability that opposition members of the opposition parties will vote in opposition; and members of the parties forming the coalition will vote in coalition. With this minimum amendment, it could be achieved that, if a Member were to withdraw from that Party, it would, of course, be blocked from the values of the party he represented, for which he was elected and which he represented, he would also cease to be a member of the Group of Members. This does not mean that this Member would not have received any professional assistance or that he could not continue to do his job. On the contrary, our Rules of Procedure now stipulate that a Member may withdraw from the Group of Members and become an independent Member or join the Group of Non-Aligned Members, so that the rights and the possibility of carrying out the work of Members would not be violated in this respect. On the other hand, this minimum change in our opinion would make a very significant contribution to the hygiene of the National Assembly and to the transparency of the work of individual Members, as well as to the predictability of a Member's decision. As it is said, Members would know who someone represents and where he belongs. Let me say that I personally contacted the leaders of the parliamentary groups before submitting the proposal, who assured me that the two-thirds majority existed for this change. Of course, in one of the Members' groups, this is the Desus Group, we were not even looking for this change, but it seemed that the majority of Members existed. Unfortunately, it turns out that most of you were gone, and there is no need for this minimal change. Some Members said that greater changes should be made, that the MP should end his mandate if he were to replace the party. But since we haven't been able to do this little change, I wonder if we're capable of anything else. And to conclude. It is very important that Members represent the values not only of the parties on which we were elected, but of the values of the voters who elected us. And such acts as we have witnessed in this term are unacceptable. And this is what we wanted in the SAB party together with the co-signers LMŠ, SD, SNS and unrelated Members to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Before the end of the term of office, the opposition submitted an addendum to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the basis of which the Member, who is a member of the parliamentary group of the same name list or parliamentary party on whose list he has been elected, should also cease to be a member of the Group from the date of the termination of his membership in the political party or in the same name. In order not to intrude, the proposal is, of course, on the part of the SAB as the first to be signed, clearly directed against the current composition of the Desus Group of Ambassadors. Firstly, of course, there is nothing wrong with making proposals, amending laws and acts in the legislative process. On the contrary, the National Assembly is that competent State authority which adopts laws, acts, other decisions and ratifys international treaties, and in principle there is nothing wrong with the time of the submission of the act. Until the end of the mandate, we are obliged to do as the Constitution and legislation commands us to do. However, there are certain laws and acts whose investment and treatment are not the most hygienic right before the end of the term of office. This is also the case with the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In doing so, let me just mention that in some countries each of the references to the new Parliament shall immediately begin to adopt its own rules of procedure, by which it shall act and act. Thus, the people's departures do not determine by which rules the people's representatives will be organised in the new reference and how they will act. It is even more unhygienic that this proposal should be adopted following a rapid procedure with emergency meetings, even if we take into account the fact that a comprehensive working draft of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure has been subject to coordination practically since the beginning of this mandate. Even more so, many amendments were inherited from our previous colleagues in the previous Assembly, as the President of the Commission for Rules of Procedure has failed to agree on deadlines for the amendment of at least that part of the Rules of Procedure for which he would have been shown to have broad support. Nevertheless, the proposal for a supplement has been tabled and also a request for an urgent meeting of the working body, at which the proposed solution has not received sufficient support. And the decision of rejection was the right one. I am sure that there was also an extremely broad and critical opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which, at least as I marked on the working body, literally tore apart the addition of the Rules of Procedure. And I'm not going to focus so much on the content, because it's been said a lot. I would add only that it is not in any way true, as the first co-signed colleague explained and affirmed, that the first time in the National Assembly is when such a situation has to be addressed, i.e. when a member of the individual parliamentary group is a Member who is no longer a party member either by choice or on the basis of exclusion. I repeat, this is not true, and the first-signature is well aware of this. A number of cases were when individual Members left the political party and continued to remain equal members of the parliamentary groups. There have been several cases where Members have not already joined the political party as candidates, nor have they been involved during the duration of their term of office. There's nothing wrong with that, and I really wouldn't mention these cases here. It would not be right for individuals or political parties. In short, the purpose and role of the parliamentary groups are clear. And even though there is a political link between a political party and a candidate, whether the candidate is a party member or not, this is, after all, a matter of agreement outside the public sphere and the mandate given to the person by the people represents an exclusive relationship between the electorate and the MP. I would like to point out that, from the moment of the election, the delegation's mandate does not belong to the political party, nor to the parliamentary group, but to the Member. He is responsible to the electorate, is representative of all the people and is not bound to any instructions, nor to the instructions of political parties. Accordingly, I voted personally on the working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will last present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u34	Thank you very much, President, again for your word. During this term of office of the National Assembly, and also in previous mandates, individual Members and Members differed for various reasons from the political parties on whose lists they had run and were elected to the National Assembly. This in itself is nothing unusual and past practice has shown that this can happen to any political party. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that a Member may be a member of the parliamentary group of the same name list on which he has been elected, or of the parliamentary group of the Party to which he is a member. Thus, the Rules of Procedure already stipulate or binds the membership of a member or a member of a member's group to the same name list as to the party's membership. Here we have two elements to consider. The fact is also that most of the statutes of parliamentary political parties stipulate that the parliamentary group is an integral part of the party. It is reasonable and clear that parliamentary groups are not independent political actors, but operate within political parties, and therefore there must be a close link here. Therefore, if an individual Member or a Member departs from and leaves a political party, then it should be a logical and natural way to get out of that political party's parliamentary group. However, since this minimum threshold of political culture is not being reached in practice, we wanted the drafters of the Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to provide for future such cases that the exit of a member from a political party would also constitute an exit from the party's parliamentary group. The Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that such a solution could also constitute an intervention in the free term of a Member, provided for in Article 82 of the Constitution, and has drawn attention to the feasibility aspect, in particular, to the question of how the National Assembly should verify whether an individual Member or Members has also ceased to be a member of a political party. At the meeting of the Rules of Procedure Commission, there was insufficient support for the proposed solution and unfortunately the legislative process was closed. Social Democrats understand and accept the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service. However, we believe that the individual mandate of a member of the National Assembly is not only due to an individual or individual acting as a Member, but rather to the joint solidarity of the entire party and of all its candidates and candidates, who have exceeded the electoral threshold with the sum of the votes obtained and the voter confidence and have allowed some candidates or candidates to be elected to the National Assembly. However, if it is a logic that, after the election and confirmation of the parliamentary mandate with the political party does not want to have any further work, it is much more fair that it should notify such a decision earlier and rather than run for office with the signatures of the electorate and electorate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the Proposal for Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is a third-party proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on gambling. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance mag. Maja Hostik Kališek.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u36	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to give you a brief introduction of the essential solutions to the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Gambling. The main objective of the novel proposal is to upgrade the legal framework and control of gambling, to increase consumer protection and to influence the fight against fraud and money laundering. The proposal also provides more money for sports, athletes and humanitarian organisations. This calls for a public tender, after which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will grant concessions for the organisation of special and classical gambling on the basis of the criteria already laid down in the applicable law. In addition, the proposed amendments and additions to the law provide that the classic gambling that only two organisers can currently organise can organise up to five organisers. Increased competition is expected to make a positive contribution both in terms of public benefits and in terms of consumer protection. As mentioned above, the Government will award concessions on the basis of existing criteria under the law, which means that the law itself does not mean that three new concessions will be granted. The liberalisation of the market thus ensures a higher level of quality of the offer and redirects players from illegal tenderers to those who have concessions and are under the control of the State. I must also point out that, in consumer protection concerns, the novel proposes a number of safeguards that will allow the environment to be more controlled for gambling. As an example, I should mention the provision on a new reason for the withdrawal of the concession if the concessionaire does not remedy the infringements identified in the supervision and the new rules on advertising of positions, in accordance with which the concessionaire must inform the public in a sufficiently transparent manner of the risks of addiction. Classical gambling also includes bets for which specific conditions for obtaining concessions are laid down in the proposal for the novels and set out more detailed conditions for adapting this type of classical gambling. These special conditions include, inter alia, a one-off non-reimbursement rate of EUR 500 000, which is shared by the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations and the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. This increases the resources for their operation by both the FSO and FIHO. With this change of legislation, athletes, people with disabilities and citizens in social distress will receive additional resources for their work and life. Should the Government increase the number of bet concessions under the invitation to tender, any new bet concession for the FSO, which finances athletes, would amount to additional resources of EUR 400,000; and for FIHO, which finances disability and humanitarian organisations, an additional EUR 100,000. The bill thus provides better conditions for the operation of sports, disability and humanitarian organisations. The Government also supports the amendment of the coalition's sent groups in case FIHO and the FSO do not receive more funding after the law has been in force than on average in the last three years prior to the law's entry into force, the difference is ensured from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This is an additional guardian for these organisations, in which, as mentioned above, the proposal for a law allows for higher funding resources. The proposal thus provides more money for the operation of sport and for the functioning of humanitarian and disability organisations, and also provides greater security in the design of gambling, so I propose that you support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u38	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The concession for permanent and classical gambling in Slovenia has only two organizers, the Lottery of Slovenia and the Sports Lottery. If the law is adopted, the Government will grant three additional concessions instead of two. Comparative European Union law shows that Member States generally grant only one concession for permanent classical gambling, except for two. Monopoly or duopol makes it easier for countries to exercise control, prevent crime and preserve human health, and Slovenia will suddenly be a special feature of the European Union and will grant as many as 5 concessions. This solution is opposed by all disability and humanitarian organisations, and the dispute over the regime imposed on us by the Government is also being pointed out in Brussels. While competition in the economy has positive effects, gambling is quite the opposite. It is precisely because of the many negative effects that this sphere of economy can cause to people that this market is extremely regulated. Gambling leads to addiction and thus to people’s distress. At the same time, it is an area that opens the door to organised crime and money laundering in the absence of strict regulation of control. Disability, humanitarian and sports organisations derive most of the funding for their activities directly from concessions paid by classical game organisers to the state budget. The government has always argued that with the open market in gambling, it will increase competitiveness and raise income levels for both the budget and for organisations that provide support to socially vulnerable and athletes. The fact that this is not true confirms the coalition supplement whereby the government extension makes it clear that there is a possibility of negative consequences for the state budget. The supplement introduces a budget protector which will cover the budget for possible lower revenues of disabled and humanitarian organisations. It appears that the Government is working hard to deconstruct the existing and functioning arrangements for a sensitive area of gambling, even in such a way as to hang any negative consequences of the changes it proposes on the already so-called state budget. We've listened to a lot of people in the SAB. To casino workers who draw a substantial part of their payment for work from the tip title and with the amendment opposed the payment of concession fees also on the basis of the collected tips. The fee must be distributed by the concessionaire to the workers in the form of payment for the work performance from which taxes and contributions are paid. If the collected tip is further burdened by the concession fee, it is clear that workers will receive lower pay for their work performance, so we welcome the current article of the law, which originally drew the government's solution. In view of all the concerns raised, we estimate that this law will have a number of negative consequences. The revenue from this activity will not only be deprived of the most vulnerable organisations that care for the socially disadvantaged and the athletes, but also of the budget. The proposed changes in gambling mean moving away from responsible gambling, causing markedly negative social consequences and consequences for human health, at the same time making it more difficult to control and allow for more illegal and criminality in this area. Is this really what we want in Slovenia? In the SAB, we believe that the amendment of the law will not lead Slovenia on the path for which we stand, so we will oppose the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group specifically.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u40	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Among the major innovations of the proposed novel of the Law on Gambling is the possibility of granting additional concessions for the adaptation of gambling. This will allow new organizers of classical gambling to enter our market. However, as a rule, any proposed novelty first triggers negative reactions, and it is not surprising that opposition is opposed, even though it is not rational. According to the current legislation, only the Lottery of Slovenia and the Sports Lottery should be organized with us, and the market could be opened for up to three additional operators. In the Group, we are particularly aware that every time we regulate the field of gambling, we also face important social issues; from the problem of addiction to financing sports, disabled and humanitarian organisations, whose budgets come from concessions from gambling. We have therefore weighed among the positive effects that the gambling market will have due to its liberalisation and among the potential exposures that market opening brings with it. We are confident that, due to the increased offer, the bill will certainly have positive financial implications and that the budgets of sports, disabled and humanitarian organisations will also increase and not decrease, as the opposition's perception of second reading, due to the granting of new concessions and increased concessions. In order to avoid this reduction in any way, a special safeguard was then adopted in the second reading, which will further improve and secure the funding system of these organisations by means of an additional coalition amendment to Article 12. In doing so, the last rational thought of the opposition fell away, and from here on out, their opposition is merely a cheap demagogy, even at the expense of the weak, because they are denied potentially better conditions in the future, including financial ones. However, the considerations of the existing two concessionaires or organizers of classical gambling can be understood mainly in the light of the arrival of competition, i.e. additional tenderers, in particular in the field of betting. This has so far been a largely unregulated area, which has also not contributed to the state budget. But the fact is that the doors to foreign players of classical gambling are not actually opening up to a new one, they are for some time locked up because users are participating on foreign platforms with gambling, but in Slovenia they do not have the possibility of operating under current legislation. This change of law, in fact, only provides a legal basis that will allow and regulate the collection of taxes from this title. As a positive assessment of the possibility that new concessionaires as a marketing opportunity will recognize the need to invest in Slovenian sport, its promotion and sports events. In particular, we welcome the final decision and the solution that will enable the liberalisation of the market with net positive financial and broader social impacts, and we will therefore support this amendment of the Gambling Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The system of gambling is regulated by a law that was adopted just under 17 years ago and has been amended several times. Such games take place in a regulated and controlled environment, preventing different social risks or abuses and protecting the interests of participants. Gambling can only be organised on the basis of the permission or concession of the competent authority and the concession fee is a source of funding for socially beneficial disability, humanitarian and sports organisations. The bill brings a lot of changes and additions. This time, I will limit myself only to the substance of the proposed novel, so that the classic gambling can be held by a maximum of five organisers instead of the two. This also represents the main apple of the dispute, as it is a major change in the business environment. And in this place, we can ask ourselves, which monopolist was ever willing to give up his monopoly without resistance. The matter is even more specific, for example in the case of the Slovenian Lottery for State-owned monopolist, which provides many internal and external participants with unquestionable profitable and safe synergies. It's a little different with the Sports lottery, which is only state-owned. These companies are the only organizers of classical gambling in the country. The total value of their concession fee, however, ranges between 20 million and 200 000 and 25 million and 200 000 euros over the last six business years, from 2015 to 2020. Three different taxes are also paid from classic gambling — a tax on gambling, a tax on luck, and a tax on winnings on classical gambling. Their combined impact over the last six business years ranges between €21.5 million and €26 million. Is that enough, or can income be increased? Monopolists, more specifically a duopolist, are categorically rejecting such things. They came up with a strategy to monopolize a monopoly, which is nothing more than to force a mental framework to preserve the existing situation, rather than a permanent debate on the individual qualities of such or other business model. There is no need to change anything – due to the lack of market size, due to the excessive complexity of taxation and due to the already above-average normalisation of the business area. The current state of play in the field of gambling and the use of their financial effects must be maintained because it is an optimisation of organisational and business-based regulation, therefore an optimist. In order to prevent corruption, the Commission expressed its views on this optimism in its assessment of systemic corruption risks in the distribution process of funds from the Foundation of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. The characteristics of the procedure are: the absence of direct legal criteria and criteria, the non-application of the rules of the law governing the general administrative procedure and the application of only an internal regulatory framework, and the specific way in which the allocation of funds is made is also specific. The substantive decision-making process shall be shared between the members of the two committees that make the actual decision and the members of the Council of the Foundation of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations, which shall adopt proposals after automation, without looking into the specific documentation. In practice, it has been shown that there are conflicting situations of interest in the allocation process, as members of the Council of the Foundation of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations and of the two evaluation committees come from a number of organisations that ask for funds and are thus parties to the procedure. So they decide for themselves. Members of the Desus Group will be united, unanimously supporting amendments and additions to the Gambling Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u44	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! There's a law in front of us on gambling change. The proposed amendment to the existing law is that in Slovenia this law eliminates existing duopol operators of gambling. At this point, Slovenia records only two gambling providers. The existing amendment of the law also provides for an additional award of concessions up to five tenderers. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we are confident that the existing system will bring greater control, greater regulation. We are also convinced that the existing amendment of the law will bring higher revenues to the budget and higher revenues to humanitarian organisations, on the one hand FIHO and on the other hand the Sports Foundation. The fact is that revenue from gambling in Slovenia has been falling dramatically since 2008. Slovenia recorded around 418 million revenue from gambling in 2008 and in 2019 and in 2020 this figure was only 323 more, i.e. a decrease of more than 23%. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this income decline is not due to less gambling in Slovenia, but to the fact that due to the existing system, poor business flows money abroad. Players play abroad and thus lose the Slovenian budget and lose humanitarian organisations. We are confident that with the amendment of this law, players who are playing abroad today will return to Slovenia and that this will increase their revenue to the budget and increase their income for humanitarian organisations. European countries, the countries of the European Union have a different system of gambling. However, we are sure in the Slovenian Democratic Party that no country in the European Union or in Europe has regulated gambling on a system such as Slovenia, because there is a private monopoly in Slovenia. We are in the Slovenian Democratic Party against private monopolies and will therefore unanimously support the amendment of the gambling law. An additional amendment has been voted on by the Finance Committee, which clearly sets out the minimum concession fees in the law. We are convinced that this amendment has made this law even better, but we are particularly convinced that this means an additional guarantee that humanitarian organisations in Slovenia, on the one hand FIHO, on the other hand, the Sports Foundation, will receive the funds that are appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Jože Lenart will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The government in the bill does not offer any analysis of why a change of law would be useful for society. Shareholders, notably the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations and the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, estimate that by increasing the number of organisers who can stage classical gambling, there will be negative consequences and a questionable economic impact. One wonders how even the Minister of Labour Janez Cigler King, who covers the disabled, and Minister of Education Simona Kustec, who covers the field of sport, agreed to the bill in the government. Many letters point to irregularities in the drafting process of the bill, since these organisations, as an interested public, have been excluded from the public debate. In accordance with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Law on Non-Governmental Organizations, the Government should consult with disabled, humanitarian and, of course, sports organisations and engage them actively in the process. But if we look in detail at how the bill has changed over and over again without the Government allowing the public to declare changes, then we can clearly see that we have before us the result of a renewed attempt by some to liberalise the area of gambling and make profit available to the electorate. And both foundations, as far as funding is concerned, will be put in a coffin with a nail. I quote: “Happiness games are an old human habit that is very controversial for various reasons and can, like any habit and addiction, also have serious social consequences.” The Slovenian Karitas and the Slovenian Bulgarian Conference are calling on all those responsible for asking a serious question about the sense and reasonableness of promoting the spread of gambling in Slovenia and to establish effective prevention programmes for such forms of addiction as soon as possible. What do you think of this, fellow Christian Democrats, who are not here today above all? The Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations points out that any change to the regime so far would have a significant impact on their functioning and that there is a complete absence of empirical analyses on the consequences of legislative change and the impact on the situation of the most vulnerable groups. Exactly, once again, no analysis at the income level is the same as in the case of the income novel. What is most bizarre, however, is that in your last desperate attempt to re-enter the law, push the provision to cover the budget. Then why are you changing the law? Of course, the budget is deep down. So far, these organisations have received funds, but now in the amendment you say that the bill aims to increase funds, but if there is a reduction in practice, then there is a good old budget to cover the errors in the budget of the applicants, which is by chance the Ministry of Finance. Do you realize how unserious this all sounds? Unfortunately, it is once again a strong, reckless and harmful attempt to install an existing and functioning system in order to satisfy partisan interests. But the saddest part is that apparently they can't count anymore at the Ministry of Finance. Or I think it's more likely that they're quiet because it's the easiest. Of course, we will not support this law in the LMŠ.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Matjaž Germany will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u48	Honorable President, dear colleagues and colleagues, respectable! Already in the general debate at the beginning of the consideration of this proposal, we have said that this proposal represents a collection of all the known bad ideas that have been brought to the surface in the field of gambling regulation over the past few years. Although all relevant organisations and professional associations, such as Karitas, the Association of Disabled Associations, the Union of Deaf and Deaf Slovenia, or the Union of Gambling, or even the European lottery association, have pointed out the harmful effects of this government proposal, which the Government strongly insists on. In the third reading of the legal text, the same view only raises the question of whether humanitarian, sports and disability organisations financed by gambling benefits should be replaced by the possible drawback resulting from the lower total revenue from this title. The mere fact that such an amendment is at issue at all proves that the supporters of the law are well aware that the law will also have negative consequences for the financing of sport and humanitarian organisations; and that is why they want to buy support from at least one part of the public. So, to put it simply, we have a relatively well-regulated system so far, which does not need to be further fueled by budgetary resources. So the law is good if there is no need to provide additional funds. With this proposal, the Government is putting these same holes in a patch in the way that it will patch them up from the budget of the funds, which is certainly not in line with sound thinking. However, the threatened financing of humanitarian sports and disability organisations is by no means the only weakness brought about by the adoption of this bill. We have, on many occasions, also highlighted all the other negative consequences. Firstly, it brings more risky gambling products and more aggressive gambling. This means that providers will be forced into more aggressive tactics and more risky products in a fiercely competitive fight, resulting in both a reduction in reward funds and an increase in the negative effects of excessive gambling, including in the form of addiction, violence or even crime. Secondly, it introduces severe competition on the basis of arbitral decisions. In the same large market, the number of tenderers is expected to increase by two and a half times, as decided by the Minister of Finance on his own discretion. This, too, is probably the reason why the Minister is not with us for the second and third consecutive times at this hearing. Thirdly, it undermines labour rights. By abolishing licensing, they would abolish the obligation of professional competence in the field of gambling and allow them to be replaced with non-professional personnel. Fourthly, it additionally burdens players in the industry, it imposes new tax burdens on them that will be passed on to workers. Fifthly, it doesn't solve the problem of ownership of gambling players. The proposed amendment is not in line with the judgments of European courts, as there are already providers on the market who do not comply with the proposed framework, which does not solve the bill, but instead prepares all the extensions that would allow for the dismemberment and sale of the biggest Slovenian casino company – Hita from Nova Gorica. Respectable colleagues and colleagues, the law with such harmful social and financial consequences, cannot be supported by the Social Democrats. In a strictly regulated area of gambling, it brings brutal free-market logic, which can only benefit those who want to make profits at the expense of working rights and the safety and health of people. We will therefore vote in the Group of Social Democrats against this harmful proposal to amend the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u50	Good afternoon. Thank you for your word, President. The gambling law is intended for high regulation of gambling activities, which is an activity where in a very short time the average amount of money is accumulated, while at the same time it can cause social damage, directly by addiction to gambling and indirectly to the destruction of the family due to such addiction. We therefore have a particular type of economic activity to perform, and it can only be carried out in accordance with the law through a concession and the freedom of the economic initiative is thus limited. The State in this activity retains actual monopolies and strict supervision for a reason. Any change in the law should therefore be based on a serious analysis of the implementation of gambling in the Republic of Slovenia. It is not clear from the material of this marriage proposal. The explanation is modest, and only solutions are included in the material, not the basis on which such solutions are even proposed. There has to be a good reason for amending the legislation, but this doesn't look like it. Only partial interests appear to satisfy the liberalisation of activities. You could even say that the amendment of the law is written for precisely defined stakeholders who would like to enter a highly regulated market for gambling in the Republic of Slovenia. More specifically, the change in the legal ownership structure creates the basis for the privatisation of the largest provider of special gambling, the Novogorski Hit, where the state is now the majority owner and the local communities have a large share. Privatisation of the main player of the casino activity in our country would mean that for relatively small money, private capital is offered not only to the company but to the entire social ecosystem created by the gaming activity, which includes the consumer pool, mainly from close to Austria and other neighbouring countries, Italy and so on. We are firmly opposed to the privatisation of casino companies in Levika, such as the Novogorski Hit. Privatisation loses the community leverage to influence decisions made by a company that mainly deals with gambling activities. Such an activity must be carried out, developed and restricted exclusively under the strict supervision of local and state institutions, as it marks the image and social character of Nova Gorica and its surroundings. In addition to increased employment, the effects on the local economy and the recently increased personal and budgetary revenues of gambling also have negative consequences – gambling addiction, monoculture entertainment and so on. The current ownership structure also provides more jobs and local suppliers. The proposal to amend the law extends the number of classical gambling providers from two to five. Now in Slovenia they are the Lottery of Slovenia and the Sports Lottery. In the European Union, it is not normal to have so many classical gambling providers. States retain the monopoly on lottery activities and there is no need for Slovenia to be focused on liberalisation and enlargement in this area. In addition, the calculations of disabled organisations show that concession fees from classical gambling, such as lottery, will be reduced. Projections of the effects of the proposed law promise a 30% decline in concessions for FIHO and thus the scope of funding for specific social programmes, and the proposal does not contain financial analyses suggesting otherwise. The negative reactions of many disabled organisations to this bill show that the bill is completely inappropriate. Of course, the drafter of the law also had to demonstrate his traditional anti-working attitude and his tendency to make greater use of workers. It also proposes deregulation of work in the casino professions, thereby reducing professionalism to reduce job safety while creating greater pressure on workers' rights and social dumping as a result. The bill before us, respected colleagues and colleagues, is a mere glue that uses individual pieces to satisfy the privatisation appetites of still in principle unknown actors who are well aware that gambling is a big and easy way to earn money. Such proposals by the Government, whose ministers do not have any legitimacy anymore, because they are themselves involved not only in scandals but even in criminal proceedings, smell like far after corruption. And we always oppose such proposals in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 3. 2022. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. Comrade Matjaž German has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think, however, that given the weight of the amendments to the Law on Gambling, which is happening to us in front of our eyes, despite many criticisms, there are certain things that need to be said about the amendment; and, if I am allowed, the honourable President, even in a broader context, gives this change in particular when we are talking about the organisations concerned, such as sports, such as disability and humanitarian ones. In particular, the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia is slightly more exposed in this context to the mandate they have put forward in the coalition. Since virtually all relevant organisations have spoken against this law, the government and the coalition have decided that at least one of the three segments, i.e. sports, humanitarian organisations and disability organisations, would like to be satisfied with the latter in order to provide funding in the event of a loss of income. So we are opening a law that has so far not been involved in this issue of income deprivation. The system, which has operated and has been regularly funded, allows organisations – humanitarian, sports and disabled – to plan a period of their activities forward, to assist all stakeholders. By providing additional funds to the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations (FIHO), they did not make a difference and did not receive the response they wanted. Although the Government wanted to close this law in a babalina way in, excuse me, and in the general public, to create the impression that at least one of the three segments, I am talking again about sport, humanitarian organisations and disability organisations, allowed or made available the same or similar funding as the existing law allows. This is disputed with all common sense, we have practically a system that has been generated, which has acted to finance the operation of these organisations; and despite this proposal, the Government has not received a positive opinion from any of the relevant organisations concerned with this form of financing and later operation. It is very interesting, we have gathered statements on the subject of this proposal, relevant people, from Foundation presidents, organisations. Let me just read you what Peter Tomažič from Karitas said. Due to the high sensitivity of these games, he also believes that the control of the organisers is crucial, which is the most effective with the monopoly. Many countries and their courts have confirmed the fact that it is very dangerous for this industry to establish liberalisation of this market. It is the monopoly that allows for the transparent functioning of all regulators and consequences that can be found in gambling. We're not just talking about addiction here, we're talking about moving away from what these games are taking from us. So some financial freedom, social problems and, of course, in a different form, they take some rights for the players. Let me read what has been said by representatives of the National Council of Disability Organisations: Any change in the regulation of classical gambling arrangements so far would have a significant impact on the financing of disability and humanitarian organisations and could make their situation worse. In three readings, we have fully substantively penetrated the essence of this proposal and the existing law and were critical to a number of points, but of course the interpretations in Parliament, both left and right, in these proposals can be very different and their views. But it is this kind of public statement by the representatives of the organisations concerned that lets us know that politics is not making a good decision, because those who are most concerned by this law are against it. And it is difficult to point out a proposaler, who is not already in third reading, for the third time in a row – I am talking about Minister Shirtzl – because he himself has been given a variety of insights and questions about why he is stubbornly breaking into a change of law that does not benefit practically anyone; except for the liberalisation of both the market and, of course, this deregulation of some monopolies that are urgently needed in this sector. And this is proved by many courts across European countries. Let me also point out that such changes will affect not only the financing of humanitarian, disability and sports organisations, but will allow for some liberalisation that we have never witnessed in our history and is similar to what we know in some countries of the former Yugoslavia. So I'm talking about so-called bookies or bookies that make gambling affordable practically on every corner. As a Goričan, as a resident of that gambling center in our country, I can say in the first person that we witnessed many tragic family stories in the late 1990s and early 1990s due to addiction to gambling. This is, of course, a thank God for the operation and legislation we have made it impossible to do so to a minimum. And virtually today, it's relatively small. But a change in this law could allow practical access to gambling for people who may be vulnerable to such abuses. Your Honor, it's a vague goal. It's a vague proposal to whom it serves. Why would they break something that works and something that makes all relevant factors relatively satisfied? We all agree that improvements in life are needed in all procedures. And practical life is constantly changing and legislation must be adapted to our needs and to our changes. But this change is really pointless and no one understands why the government coalition and the government insist on a proposal that is practically not supported by anyone. Therefore, the honourable President, if I am allowed to do so, could only, with concern, ask fellow Members and Members not to look at the daily policy and the proposed changes, and rather to take account of the consequences of these changes felt by such sports organisations, some point out that this law is bad, rather than the humanitarian ones who are the pillars of our society's operations in the field of humanitarianism. Like the Red Cross, or Karitas, or many other humanitarian organisations that point out that the funding system you are proposing is unstable and dysfunctional; as well as disability organisations whose share of funding from this title is extremely high. We are therefore interfering with the area of vulnerable individuals and groups with the aim of liberalising a market that, in the example of many European countries, needs to participate in monopolies in order to act in a sustainable and consistent manner. In the Group of Social Democrats, as from the first reading to the last reading, we will insist that the law is harmful, that the law is inappropriate for confirmation. And I would like to see that next week, when the vote is taken, there will be a sense of responsibility not only for sport, not only for the disabled and the disabled, but also for humanitarian organisations, which are once again extremely exposed in these weeks to the management of the refugee crisis and to help those in need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u53	Thank you, too. The word is Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u54	Thank you very much again. Colleagues and colleagues! All stakeholders, not only the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations and the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, including all other stakeholders, must also list the municipality here, we have heard several times today – Karitas and other countries, how they define how to expand concessionaires for gambling, they point out that this is not good. And at the end of the day, the country was all alone here. And one wonders what kind of a democratic state it is, given that the government has not even introduced a public debate on the possibility that all these organisations could speak out in public. And you insist and practically forcefully want to adopt this law. Moreover, this amendment, which we are currently considering, does not fall within the budget at all under the law on gambling. It's unhygienic, if you know what the word unhygienic means. It's presumptuous, it's rude, or how else can I put it? Such an amendment in the budget has nothing to look for here, in the National Assembly. Lucky games, it's practically a hobby. And it's a hobby until it turns into some sort of addiction. And if it becomes addictive, it causes additional social problems and damage. We know what it brings to individuals, families, and society. Gambling is no added value for the development of a country, for the development of society. Far from it. It's got to stay on the level of some hobby. And that someone would say to me that now that new concessionaires are in the process of being introduced, there are five who can, with profits, reduce this budget for these organisations, now that taxpayers will cover it through the budget, so I say that this is unhygienic and defiant. And whoever votes for it today, as we said, will kill these organizations with a nail in a coffin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u55	Thank you, too. The word is Primoz Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Good day again, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Vice President! It will not be one day in the National Assembly that we do not have a proposal on the table for a new privatisation of something. We were talking about high school yesterday. In yesterday's debate, I mentioned all the harmful effects that privatisation has had so far, either in the economy or in the care of the elderly, we have talked about homes for the elderly and so on and so forth. And if we look at, very realistically look at 30 years of privatisation in the Republic of Slovenia, tell me a good example that came out nicely, public enterprise, something that was in the public interest, something that either the local community or the state or whatever it was controlling, controlled, and then went through privatisation for the better and were better for workers, better for the economy, better for the budget, better for the community, better for the social picture, better for anything. There's not a single case like this. And the liberalisation spoken of or offered by the present proposal, respected colleagues and colleagues, is no different than another campaign of harsh privatisation, only this time we are talking about a very delicate economic sector, which has very tangible, even negative, social consequences; and we must therefore work with it in gloves in particular. That this law is already in the beginning, from the beginning – and now on our tables, I don't know, a few weeks, a few months – is bad, everyone, all the stakeholders in this law, sports organisations, humanitarian organisations, disability organizations, the workers' world, the local community agree. Everyone agrees that this concrete proposal, which extends the possibility of privatising this casino map and privatising our biggest player in this area, is bad. Apparently, only someone in the government and a friend of his or hers who has a particular interest in this action is rooting for this proposal, because we have already talked about specific names, if you remember, on the committee and in previous discussions. And in front of us we have one such brutal, delicate social situation with this economic sector that it is necessary to open the door not to liberalisation, but to the contrary; to make sure that things are regulated, that they are under the watchful eye of the competent services, local communities, in this case also the centres for social work and all the factors that the gaming activity entails with its bilateral, unfortunately negative, social effects. Not to open the door to new owners, to deregulation, or to call it an elastic policy of labour law, which it also flirts with. Which brings me to another point, as I have already said in the introductory position, we can traditionally see from this proposaler one concrete attack on workers. Workers are announcing, by the way, if you are interested, in today's edition of Primorske novice, you can read an article where I think the journalist has taken excellent note of the position of employees who are concerned about what is happening here today or what is going to happen on this topic in the middle of the vote. But no, the proponent pulls everything down in front of him again, pulls down the warning workers and decides to loosen the licenses. And the licenses are for casino workers, so the workers – and I sincerely recommend to you, read this article – say: “The licenses are our specialization as doctors.” This is a very specific working environment, a work process that requires a license to guarantee quality, transparency and security for players. And it is reasonable to conclude that licences are for casino workers, we can draw parallels with the doctor’s specialization; this is a very specific profession requiring knowledge, skills and professionalism. And now here the government would make it easy or break and at this point loosen these licenses. What does that mean? Anyone, including the ignorant, even the uneducated, or uneducated in the casino profession, will be able to do so at the expense of all those who are already doing so, the standards will be lowered, the pool of employees will be able to reach the ignorant workers, they will be able and easier to pay. And then we have the whole train, the whole chain of paid-up, paid-up jobs, social dumping, and it ends at the social work centre, that's what I'm talking about. And once again, before I finish, this marriage is bad, and no one supports this marriage. In Levi, we oppose him for several reasons. I'm putting this ignorant attitude, this harmful attitude towards workers and workers at the forefront. No one asked them about this matter. They themselves say that they are already working under poor conditions when I quote: “Employers are overloaded, reassigned to other departments where there is a shortage. The staff is leaving and there are almost no new people who would like employment under such conditions.” Now, what is now on these challenges within the company that the employees already have, is a new bomb on the handling of the labour environment for employment, that it will be even worse, that they will be paid even worse, that they will not be able to get around, I will not say, enjoy, but at least be somewhere in the environment of safe employment, if it is already the environment as it is. This bomb in Novogorsko is made by such proposals. Once again, neither the profession, nor the union, nor the local community, nor the humanitarian organization, nor the sports organisation, nor the disability organisation, I reiterate what I have already pointed out a hundred times what the hell this government has against the disabled. No one supports this proposal, no one. Nobody who works in Hit, working in the gaming industry, is in favour of this proposal. Dear representatives of the government bulldozer, I lay on your heart, think before the middle vote. And if it's not the same, why don't you check in with the workers and the workers in the Hit? They're the Hit. Hit is not your Austrian or I don't know which friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u57	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u58	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Initially, all I want to say is that I will support the amendment tabled by the coalition. We will also support it in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Since the predecessors have taken advantage of the opportunity to discuss this amendment in a broader debate, I too will be touched. We cannot pass the facts that revenue from gambling in Slovenia is falling drastically. And none of the opposition has highlighted this issue in today's debate, as well as in the second reading of this law. And if revenue from gambling falls, this means that revenue in the budget is falling and the income of humanitarian and sports organisations is falling. The revenue from gambling in 2008 was 418 million and in 2019 it was 323. This means a drop of more than 23% and this represents about 100 million less revenue. Then 100 million less revenue is allocated to the Slovenian budget and to humanitarian organisations. I am sure that this income decline is not from the title to play less gambling in Slovenia, but to move players abroad for such and other reasons. From this title Slovenia loses, loses its budget, loses its humanitarian organizations, loses its sports organisations, loses its clubs. And this change in the law will make things better. I am sure that also, my fellow German, there is no monopoly in the European Union or in Europe as it is in Slovenia. We have a private monopoly in Slovenia in the field of sports betting and we cannot go beyond this fact. You said everyone was happy today. That's not true. No, only two suppliers are satisfied and users are dissatisfied and users' dissatisfaction is seen in the decline in income compared to 2008 by 2019. And he doesn't think that opening sports bets isn't supported. A wide range of industry sports organisations have supported the opening of the sports betting market, but we cannot go. The key issue is, of course, that this law regulates the system, that control of gambling will still exist, and I am sure that this control will be even better. And one of the key issues of this law is to protect those most vulnerable groups in gambling, which are minors. And far from what the opposition is trying to explain in some way, access to gambling in Slovenia today is not accessible in every place. Yes, it is. And in fact, every gas service offers a terminal for gambling. Each post office offers a terminal for gambling. What control is there that we know that these terminals are not used by a minor? And I don't know what you're so afraid of, but in the Slovenian Democratic Party we support such a bill. We support it because we are against private monopolies because we are for more control and because we are confident that this change of law will give the Slovenian budget higher revenue. The higher revenues will also be recorded by humanitarian organisations, disability organisations and, last but not least, sports organisations whose main purpose is this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u60	Thank you very much again. One more fact is that I want to put it here, and I want to put it on my heart again, what we are doing with this law. The war in Ukraine in this millennium – this is the biggest catastrophe of the refugee crisis. The government itself has said, ministers, that Slovenia will take over 200,000 refugees. We know what's going on in Poland, in the Czech Republic, so they can't do it anymore. And here, respected colleagues and colleagues, are entering the scene again and they have already entered. We can monitor this every day. And today, with the new concessionaires who will take some of this revenue out of the way, we will allow it, instead of thinking about how today we will give humanitarian organisations and sports organisations – including sports organisations – we know that the athletes have also received it first and that they are helping them – we will provide more resources. Not that we're going to let concessionaires into this pool now, so they can take these resources away from us. That's unacceptable. And once again, I conclude, it's unhygienic. This marriage is unhygienic, and this amendment itself is even more rude, contemptible. And today this law and the amendment must not be adopted. It doesn't fit in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u61	Thank you, too. Matjaž German has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u62	Thank you, Vice President. I will discuss this so that I can have a little more time, and I will also respond in a way to my colleague Pogačnik because he has appointed me. I'll start at the last one. Mr Pogačnik mentioned that we already have access to virtually every Petrol, and by doing so we are now allowing everyone to play, bet and play for good luck. But, Mr. Pogačnik, this is a completely different concept of thinking. I come from Nova Gorica alone. And do you know what the difference is when you actually open a so-called bookcase or a bookcase or, on the other hand, when you're tanking, you play a lottery ticket? The difference is that when you enter a place where architecture itself is adapted to the desire and need of the player and the chewing of money, of course consumerism, in this case gambling, is encouraged and the abuse of it is promoted. If you enter Petrol, as you mentioned, at the local gas station, these factors influence the urge to play are not. And these are the differences that psychologically affect this. I will read in this context a statement by the Head of the Addiction Centre in Nova Gorica. This is Mr Miha Kramli, who says: "The proposal of the law speaks only flatly of increasing positive effects, without explaining where these effects will also be reflected. More providers are no longer provided with funds. We're only going to have higher sales and higher levels of addiction and lower earnings due to high payouts. I estimate that the law is completely inappropriate and socially harmful.” This is what the Head of Addiction in Nova Gorica said, of course with his rich experiences, as I mentioned earlier. You're saying that money flows abroad because players play abroad, and that's a solution that you don't have a single organization attached to. We can detect a similar phenomenon that is not necessarily socially harmful, but the answer to it is incorrect, as all relevant players point out. Let me tell you, given your claim that virtually no European country has such an arrangement as we know, a statement by the European lottery association, which was issued 12. Ten. 2021, which says: “Such a proposal as you propose”, says the European Lottery Association, “such a proposal is not recognized anywhere in the world and is completely contrary to the way the lottery works are done. More lottery operators are no longer operating and no more revenue.« I answer to you on behalf of the lottery on your claim that in the event of liberalisation we will receive more revenue. So the European lottery association, the umbrella organization in this area, denies your words. And continues: “Lotteries cannot be compared with other types of gambling.” Let me tell you, this doesn't mean any more money than you say. I will start with the Sports Foundation in its publication 31. 8. 2021, which says: »The Sport Foundation Council notes that the proposed amendments to the Gambling Act may have a negative impact on the amount of funds collected under the concession fee. They threaten the stability of funding of the Sports Foundation, namely sport, and consequently sports organisations. The FSO opposes the adoption of the amendment of the law, any modification of the arrangements for the organisation of classical gambling without a prior substantive public debate and preliminary credible analysis of the financial implications of the amount of concession fees.” We have also proposed that public debate, discussion with all stakeholders in this important change, but you have rejected it; and for you and your government, dialogue means monologue. So what you say is true, as experts say in this area, is just one moment, the noise in the procedures you want to perform. Let's move on to disability organizations. The National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia is 20. 9. 2021 stated: “As an interested public, when adopting a legislative act, the European Commission shall inform the European Commission of those infringements in the preparation of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on gambling.” The National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia has informed the European Commission of this, and we have come so far. The National Council of Disabled Organizations is 12. Ten. 2021 stated: “Any change to the regulation of classical gambling would therefore have a significant impact on the financing of disabled and humanitarian organisations and could make their situation worse.” So it's not about the tide anymore, but it's about making sure this tide doesn't come at all. And that is not what we, who are in opposition, are opposition Members, or I, who come from Nova Gorica, where you are actually making Hit work insecure with this intervention and putting Hit employees in a position of uncertainty, which you actually put in a position of degradation of your own profession by licensing. These are skills, this is the know-how that we have acquired both in Novi Gorica and in the centres of gaming, which are inseparable, which we must give them the right value. And with this proposal, evaluate these professions, which are of paramount importance, because this is the psychological moment of the relationship between the gambling provider on the one hand and those who perform these games. And this relationship must primarily be a relationship of great responsibility, of social responsibility. And that's why these people need to be properly educated. We have practically established this system for 40 years – an employee-to-player relationship. With this you break down these relations, which have been established at the expense of our local knowledge and behaviour, because of course you are putting Hit in the role as you wanted to put Sava Turism, which you do not know by God, whether it was really an interest that the casino giant Hit was also brought into the arms of a chosen provider on the basis of changes in the law. So in this case, all eyes are focused on the Austrian Novomatic, which we've already talked about. I will read some more statements to you, because today it is right not only to speak to politics, but to actually prove to you through relevant actors that what you are doing is harmful not only for sports, not only for humanitarian organisations, but also for disabled organisations and, of course, for employees in the gaming sector. So we respond to your findings by making public statements by the institutions concerned. And allow me to touch the Red Cross or the Slovenian Philosopher's Conference, where Monsignor Mag. Aloysium Cvikl and Monsignor Stanislav Zore said the following: 16. 3. 2022, you can get this quote on the Catholic-church.si website, where you say that "it is therefore necessary that a broad public debate begins before the announced expansion of the area of gambling," which, of course, we have not witnessed since our proposal has not been accepted. “Interdisciplinary research is needed which will not only examine possible economic gains,” therefore, respected, not only the economic impact, “but also the highly probable ethical, educational and socially harmful side effects, which can also destroy economic profit and concession benefits in a far-reaching way. The Slovenian Karitas and the Slovenian Bulgarian Conference, due to many already visible and foreseeable harmful consequences, call on all those responsible to ask themselves a serious question about the sense and reasonableness of promoting the spread of gambling in Slovenia and to establish effective prevention programmes for such forms of addiction as soon as possible." Monsignor Stanislav Zore and Monsignor mag. Aloysy Squeakle. I think that this diapazone from the staff of Hit, the Foundation for Sport, Humanitarian Organizations, Disabled Organizations, the Roman Catholic Church is, in the latter case, wide enough to be in a position of responsibility when we have to reject this law with all our responsibility. We have a very wide range of actors who oppose that the Government has not been prepared to prepare public debates on the effects of this proposal, which are negative, and that it accepts this in a handball manner, in a way that creates the impression that it is a lobbyist law for an already well-known bidder. This lack of transparency raises more questions than answers, but what is undeniable is that in all its elements, I am not saying this, I have read to you the position of stakeholders, this amendment to the law is harmful. Therefore, respectable colleagues and colleagues, it is essential that we maintain our responsibility in a way that simply rejects the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u63	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u64	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. It is right that there are different opinions, and I think it is also right that you are in this Chamber where the arguments of one or the arguments of the other party weigh. And I don't see the point, my fellow German, for one such offensive way, here, tell me what someone should be supported by. You did not get into this key issue in particular, the fall in revenue from gambling in Slovenia from 2008 to 2019, for about 100 million. And this 100 million means less revenue for the Slovenian budget, less income for humanitarian organisations, less transport for sports organisations. With regard to advertising, I am confident that in the field of sports betting, advertising will follow the way of tobacco law. And I'm sure advertising, especially sports betting, the rest of the bets, will be banned. The Spanish La League has already banned the advertising of clubs on jerseys, and I think the next season is also the Premier League, and sooner or later this ban will be on. And I think that the fear of these flags and all that, how they're going to hang from, the areas where gambling providers are going to be, is superfluous. And even today on petrol services we see this advertising of the Sports Lottery and this Sports Lottery is a private monopoly. Dear German colleague, please list one country in the European Union or in Europe that has a private monopoly in the field of betting. I don't think so. On the other hand, quite a few trade unions supported the amendment of the Law on Gambling and the opening of sports betting. And in 2018 the so-called Zorman Law also supported the Sports Foundation. Because they were confident at the time that there would be more income from this title for sports organizations and clubs. And now I don't know who's cheating. I am sure or we will unanimously support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are convinced that this law brings significant improvements in the field of sports betting, eliminating the private monopoly. And we are also convinced that it will bring more control, which, at least today, I do not think is; or it is not large enough. On the other hand, by opening this up, I am sure that higher revenues will be for the budget, for humanitarian organisations, for sports organisations. And undoubtedly the amendments adopted in both the second reading and the amendment tabled by the coalition parties, and I will personally support it, provide additional security that humanitarian organisations and sports organisations will not receive less resources to open the market.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word. Here you go. Sorry, the replica, the German Matjaž.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I apologize to my colleague Starovic. I must rephrase my colleague Pogačnik. In fact, there is no monopoly in our country, but there is a duopol when we talk about the field of sports betting providers. Sooner or later, respectable Mr Pogačnik, advertising will be settled, there is no guarantee, and even less legally, that anything will change with us. There are no guarantees at the pre-election meetings of the National Assembly, especially when they are not made by the Minister, who is again absent today. I will answer you with one quote on your only argument that I can agree with is that the income from this title is falling. I argue, however, that the way to solve this is not the only condition, especially the condition of the performance of a particular industry, in the next quote. For RTV Slovenia, the legal expert Philippe Vlaemminck stated: “A simple calculation shows that monopoly lottery payments pay 50 to 60 % of profits. Gross profit is thus 40%.” Therefore, if you have 35, 40 % of your profits and are not taxed 10 %, this amount amounts to 4 % of your revenue. However, if there is more competition on the market, there is an increase in the remuneration for the profits. Even 80, even 95%. If the gross profit is 5%, only 0.5% of the revenue will be paid for the taxes. For the same tax revenue, people should play eight times as much. If you want to increase tax revenue on the competitive market, people should play gambling and sports betting from 10 to 15 times more. So if we understand what the legal expert was trying to say, it is that by liberalising access to gambling we only increase the need for even greater play by those who are already playing. Dear colleagues, these are a relatively limited number. Regardless of the number of offers and offers they are the same players who only change the product; however, the number of players does not increase. So the market will create the latter, that aggressive advertising will make these same players, the same ones who can or will not be adopted, just expose their addiction even more. So let's increase the possibility of greater addiction; and this is probably proved by calculations, by the most vulnerable groups, because these are more susceptible to gambling. Here's all the logic proved by the numbers. So it is not the only wish of this industry – and this is proved by everyone – only and only profit, here the side effects are such that this profit can be destroyed. And that's why we need this balance and balance in this industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Member, I think this was more of a debate than a replica. Mr. Pogačnik, first of all, if you want a replica. You know there's no replica to the replica. [[advertising from the hall]] No, I won't. [[…]] The debate is held by Vojko Starović. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, it's procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u68	Madam President, I ask you to comply with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. He violated my colleague's rules of procedure dramatically before me, used a replica to debate; and this is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And even though there was a completely wrong interpretation of the replica of what I had, you have to give me a replica of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u69	Dear Member, it is true, as I have warned Mr German, that he has debated more than the replica to the debate, but I will not allow it. We have a debater Vojko Starović in front of you, and then you'll get your word as a debater. Here you go, Mr. Starovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u70	Vice President, thank you for your word. Hello, colleagues and colleagues! I have some experience in this area, because I spent a year in the leadership of the Portorož casino, in the college body that was for the rehabilitation of the then casino. And I've come to a good understanding of what this means and what's going on. And if I look at this 12th article, this amendment, this amendment, it basically reveals the harmfulness, the incomprehensibility of this law, which is completely unreasonable. Look, we're investing in this fuse because we know it's going to go somewhere else. Where's the money going? Where's the money going? Here deserved, with our people, with their addiction. Where's that money gonna go? Out, out, out. This is a stately completely pointless act. Casino, when it worked, built a bunch of things in its time. From that money, a bunch of things have been built, from Tartini Square to the reconstruction of Tartini Theatre, the construction of the Auditorium, the entire marina, the airport. One thing happened and many others, including Casino Portorož, was that casino that founded Hit Gorica and also Hit Gorica has done benefits through the old system. As colleague Pogačnik says, in years ago, from 2008 to 2019, there was a lower income from casinos. Why was he smaller? Because at the time, a law was passed that was bad for gambling. That law was adopted purely for one simple reason. That they destroyed existing good companies to allow others to enter; because companies were run by red directors. And it had to be destroyed to allow smaller players. They didn't, he lost his income. [[…]] Now we are thinking of giving foreigners such a sensitive area. I don't really agree with Levi in some things. We have an existing system that we have and works, that's capitalism. And if we're statesmen and if this is a country, we have to worry about our own capital. We need to take care of our bourgeoisie, if I say so little, for capitalists, for funds, for investment funds, we need to make sure that locals can invest, not go things, my dears, abroad. Look, everything we create is on average, it's shared like this. What we do is we create a gross social product, we say, how does it divide, I speak grossly? Something goes to capital, something goes to work, those who create directly, but the capital goes to 35% and it's still getting bigger. You don't think it's just profits, and it's amortization of other things that count. So we're all running out, we're giving up, we're working for others, we're what I'd say, colonial countries are always getting more and more into the way we sell companies. [[…]] Is it important for someone to get the commission, please? I don't think there's any other reason here, reasonable. There is no other reason here, reasonable, except that someone pulls the commission from releasing this market and letting others in to take the money out of our country, from our Slovenia. As a result, the state budget should assume the burden of financing sports and humanitarian organisations. What are we, crazy?Oh, my God! Seriously, this is completely unreasonable, I must say and point out once again, completely unreasonable. We have to worry about domestic capital. Capital is such a useful thing that I can't do without the funds you can't do anything. [[…]] If you don't have the capital, you can't produce. All we have to do is take care of our capital, not foreign, please. The country should be committed to this. All countries are committed to this. While we were being bought by companies when we sold them, they went to investment funds that, say, in Germany, were forbidden to sell them, to many of them – suspicious, unverified and so on. [[…]] Now we're letting someone into it again. Do you know why the Puerto Rican casino was so successful and could do things for the social benefit and the benefit of the environment? Because in Italy it was not allowed to have more than so many casinos and the Italians came to us. But ours wasn't allowed in. So we've only made this development with other people's money, I'd say. Look, that was more reasonable behavior than today's. Now we just let go, let them take the money! Who comes by — past, just as the hotels almost happened. And then we, because we don't have our own investment funds that we haven't developed, then we can't buy them, then the country has to jump into recapitalisation to save an important part of tourism. Look, let's be responsible. If you have a country, it's not the point of the system that it's about making profits, but it doesn't matter who. It's capitalism. Capital is looking for profit because otherwise, if there is no profit, it can't develop, it can't get fat, it can't grow, it can't make technological progress, it can't do anything; we have to support it. It's a useful thing. Please don't back up any other capital on our account. If we want to have prosperity in this country and if we want people to live well, to work and create, we need to help them to do so. Let's make a more friendly country to domestic capital, more friendly, not only is it so very friendly, although some advertise, but the tax burden of capital on us is a little below the average of Europe, so we are kind enough. [[…]] But in such a way that we have not allowed the growth of investment funds, the creation through pension funds, through insurance and so on and through the massive 25 billion euros we have in banks, and we do not make one, as we have suggested, one fund – could be tourist and one fund – infrastructure, because we would collect this money, bonds from people who have no place to give money, because banks no longer bring it. [[…]] And we would have the means to build, to modernise railways and to develop tourism. But no, even in tourism, because the essential part of tourism is this tourist offer – gambling, because it should not be where people live, but it should be where they go on vacation so that they can be offered it. Now we're gonna let this thing go in front of every door and every stranger. It's crazy. I don't know what we're doing. What do we want to bankrupt?Oh, my God! We want to become a really colonial state, clean, and we'll only be Slovenians here when we're working for foreign capital, or what? I don't know which way we're going. Who can defend this, which responsible politician? Obviously, I don't see any other reason, I seriously don't see any other intelligent reason than the basic principle that someone deserves it. This is what comes – their friends, their environment. I don't know. And I'm defending that, too. Also, colleague Pogačnik, who likes to advertise on this subject, I know that financial matters are understood and this debate is well understood. We need to be critical here, and we need to be stately responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u72	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Kolga Starović, in the last ten years, which sold state property, was sold by the government led by your client or in which your client participated. On this matter, however, as regards the sale of state property, the outflow of capital abroad must be first asked by yourself. The other thing, my colleague German, is that you misunderstood me about the monopoly. I'm talking about a private monopoly, I repeat – a private monopoly. I know that there is a duopol in Slovenia, but I am sure that there is no private monopoly in Europe or in the European Union, as we do in the field of sports betting in Slovenia. Look at the ownership structure of Sports lottery; and this is a private monopoly. I'm sure there's more control over this law here. Revenue, the majority of players probably withdrew abroad, the reasons are probably multilayered from the offer. But in one part, I agree with you, my German colleague. If we try to bring all these players who play abroad back to Slovenia to play in Slovenia, it will probably not be enough just to change this law that we have on the table today. This law will certainly help to do so, but I am sure that, in order to return players to Slovenia, at least in the field of sports betting, this tax legislation will have to be amended in particular, and the burden of so-called happiness tax, which is unfavorable, uncompetitive compared to other countries; or to improve this regulation. Today in Slovenia you can actually connect to every website, play and thus open up the flow of money abroad.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u73	Thank you very much. A debate, Mr. German. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u74	Thank you, Chairman. After this last implementation, it is even less clear to me. I agree that in the field of tax legislation it is possible to optimise the state of play, and I do not know why you do not do so. This is perhaps a solution for the Novogorski Hit without changing licensing; I am talking about the quality of service delivery, or that you are preparing the ground for a buyer, as in the case of the son-in-law Orban, as we read in the media in the case of Sava Tourism, but with tax reliefs or adjustments we could actually regulate this market. But that's not what you're talking about in this change of law. This change of law, as has already been said, has arisen in extremely strange circumstances. In fact, half a year we are following up on the preparation of this amendment of the law and I will read to you what is in the Saturday Annex 27. 11. said Borut North of the National Council of Disability Organisations about the preparation of this law. Listen to me well: “In the public debate there was a law in which we made our comments that were not very root; and these were taken into account. Until the last moment, such a bill was published online, and then, "remarklessly, a completely amended bill came into the National Assembly overnight, which went into the opening of the market and a change in the levels of concessions, which is unacceptable for us." So that's what we've been dealing with all the time and what they're also pointing out is the specific areas of interest that touch on changes in this law. You have prepared one law for us, to which we have made our proposals, and then the Government has put a completely different proposal into the procedure of the National Assembly and has eliminated by then all activities involving stakeholders or those that should be involved in the preparation of this law. That's what I'm talking about, Your Honor. This is why we are talking about a potential lobbyist law, because in this way, when preparing such radical changes that not only affect the sale of Hit from Nova Gorica, but interfere with their dependence, interfere with possible business or business not only of the providers, but also of humanitarian, disabled and sports organisations. You, who have hidden this proposal from the public's eyes, have put it in the process, in a way that any participant could be involved in the process itself. I really hope that the State Council will keep its promise of a veto, as was the promise made in this National Assembly. Because nothing about disabled people. And you, without the disabled, without the athletes and without the humanitarians, interfered with their work or stable funding. And, as it is said, it is not the only condition for the profitability of this activity. This is pointed out by many courts, including courts that actually understand the market, the freedom of the market and the functioning of market freedom as we know it in the free world. But Romana Dernovšek from Loteria Slovenije said that today the players of lottery games have an offer available to them in the largest and most developed countries of Europe. The changes will make the offer worse, even the court, which is the other main guardian of freedom of competition in this area, in several opinions, believes that the market for lottery games no longer offers better but worse offers. Your Honor, I answer your questions. It brings more addictive games and worse consumer protection, brings lower amounts of collected concessions and lower taxes on higher profits for municipalities, and the profits are redistributed to private organisers. And you, as a representative of the European People's Party, although I have the SDS personally for a populist party, you read to the Social Democrat whether this provider is a private or a state party, and you question the ownership of a sector that has so far been well regulated and has the most equal athletes, humanitarian workers and people with disabilities, not individuals who own this company. In a way, we are in a strange situation where I am the one defending the current situation, which is ownershipally structured in a way that essentially allows stable funding; and this is highlighted by virtually everyone in their statements. But you're problematic about the ownership structure, because it should be completely state-owned, if I understand correctly. But we are changing something that runs well, which laufa, as it were, does not need to be disturbed, unless someone has – and in this government we have already repeatedly found someone who has a direct interest – even in the case of his private or personal interest. And that's what it means. As has already been said, I have highlighted the representative of the National Council of Disability Organisations, because he was the one who revealed the way in which this amendment of the law, which is not made in a transparent way, is what we all know. And when something is done in a non-transparent way, it is done in order to achieve its own objectives, not social benefits, as we see in this change. Therefore, there is no argument and also a reduced volume of business or the market does not mean that everything has to be destroyed and that in fact it is necessary to prevent the stable financing of vulnerable groups, such as disabled people or humanitarian workers or those who need humanitarian assistance, that the sport that we all love and is the only industry in our country that actually connects us, is to prevent stable and further financing, at least to the extent that they have now known. The solution to this amendment by the government coalition is that the bill is poor. Why? Because you don't change the law according to a normal farmer's mind and give him a chance to participate or participate in the budget in case of losses or reduced income. This suggests that you are essentially doubting that the law is good and that you are essentially providing similar funding to the spheres of interest. It's a bad marriage. The law must be self-sufficient in terms of its sources of funding, and in this case, you simply attach what we say all the time to the fact that the law is inconsistential, and you are even more encouraging the suspicion that it is a typical lobbyist law. And in the event that we will receive the fourth Janša government, I am sure that you will intervene in the area of such a sensitive segment of our society, such as the area of gambling, in a way that will free the market, dismember Hit, sell the casino part of one tourism, Bogsigaveda to whom the tourist work; and actually destroy the industry that has generated not only a mountain region or a coastal region since the late 1980s, but practically a tourist centre in the field of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm talking about Bled. I'm talking about Portorož. I'm talking about Rogaška Slatina. So unacceptable, unacceptable, immoral and unconscionable, therefore absolutely under all the criteria of the proposal for a law to be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u75	Thank you, too. The replica has a mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u76	President, thank you for your word. Comrade German, you read all these messages from disabled organizations and everything from November 2021. We were also aware of these comments in the coalition. As a result, the second reading adopted and supported an amendment setting out the minimum rate of concession fees. It's not in the existing law today. It doesn't say how much minimum concession fees there are. We have corrected this, and have given this minimum amount of concession fees. With this is the risk that you repeatedly repeat and read old messages from 2021, I would say, inaccurate and not holding. [[…]] And even with today's amendment being prepared, an additional fuse is being put in place in this system. And if you really had that much for your employees and your employees, then you'd probably be in favour of the income change bill. You rejected it and thereby rejected the higher salaries of employees. Unfortunately, the coalition has passed a law on income change. The fact is that many industry organisations, sports organisations, support opening up the field of sports betting. And also one of the more visible members of Social Democrats, the president of one of the industry organisations, supports the opening of sports positions, including in public. And he made a public statement that sports associations get less funding from year to year.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The debate is held by Vojko Starović. Excuse me, Mr. Starovic, did you want a replica earlier? [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, excuse me for understanding this is a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u78	Okay, thank you very much, Chairman. Once again, I will repeat a matter, very simple, we have to worry about capital to remain in our own hands, because then there remains income, inflows, inflows from capital. This is important. These are ours, these are the hotels, these are the factories, these are the machines, this is all where some money is invested to produce a new value. [[…]] Do you understand? That's the way it is in this economy, because without capital, you can't. I see in capital a very positive thing because it is capable of creating a new value. One production factor is work, another production factor is capital and together they produce. Otherwise, I can't imagine any result. On the other hand, I must say that the instigation in this debate of who sold it must be asked before the question of who sold it. We went to the first Janša government since the 2004 debt, the whole country was, together, all of Slovenia was in charge of 17 billion, that is all – state budget and municipal budgets and financial organizations, banks and companies. We jumped to 42 billion by 2008. People of God, more than once. And then it had to be fixed. And it had to be repaired. And then in the other Janša government with pro-cyclical politics, because we were in crisis, it was with restrictions on public spending, fortunately this did not happen now in this mandate to relax, but rather with restraint, when there was no investment in public investment, pensions were shrinking, everything was shrinking, it was pro-cyclical, so with actions that were still supporting the crisis, we were sinking deeper. And that had to be resolved. We were in front of a bankruptcy. Thank God the government changed then and we saved and we went back to the positive. However, many things had to be sold, and under a strict mandate and clear directive of Europe, not at the request of the then government. Now I don't know why it's now, at this time, you have to sell the market to strangers. I seriously don't know, and I think it's an extremely damaging law, an extraordinary law that's going to cost us more. And if he messes with my buddy right now, I'm gonna mix it up. The Income Act, which should bring the lower ones, will bring a permanent hole to the budget, 800 million, which is almost a billion, which is why we need to look. Strongly irresponsible behaviour towards the budget, and with this Article we are still putting an additional burden on this budget. And my boys, are we serious?Oh, my God! I think we're acting very stateless and very irresponsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u79	Thank you, too. The replica has a mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u80	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Kolga Starović, you mix pears and apples[Book apples, term in response to the execution of mags. Mark Pogačnik below uses Vojko Starović.] in relation to the debt of the State. Really. And we have already told you this ten times, but you, for the eleventh time, do not understand what the debt of the country is, but what is common debt and what is common debt and what is common debt and what is common between businesses and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And if the period 2007 and 2008 were the booms of housing loans and everything, citizens and businesses were more indebted. Janša's government in the first term, between 2004 and 2008, is the government that has so far entrusted Slovenia with the least.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The debate is held by Matjaž German. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u82	I will return from the income policy to gambling if I am allowed, honourable President. It was said that I myself highlighted the words of the relevant stakeholders which were not involved in the drafting of this amendment of the law, because all my quotes were supposed to reach 2021. But anyway, if I go back to my quotations and at the time of the drafting of this law, let me read you another statement, from a world-renowned organization that is watching over transparency, this is Transparency International, which is in its statement of 1. 12. 2021 pointed out the following: "Because of doubts about the transparency of the procedure for drafting a bill, we call on Members of the Finance Committee to be further convinced before voting on the content and to require more information on the circumstances of the creation of such a proposal." Since then, dear fellow Pogačnik, nothing has changed in practice; except that you have prepared an amendment to mitigate the negative consequences of this law in case of reduced revenues, and only one of the three segments, namely FIHO. It's humanitarian organisations or disabled organisations, I apologize. You haven't touched two segments. And these disabled organizations, despite the amendment, have said that this law is unacceptable. So we have the untransparent preparation of the law. More than that, we have originally prepared a draft amendment to the law, which was not in such a form as has been publicly announced, tabled in the National Assembly. Later, any public debate was reflected with stakeholders, not only in the National Assembly, but with stakeholders directly affected by this unreasonable proposal, both in the field of classical and specific gambling. So you have a concrete impact on the operation of a company like Hit, and on the other hand on the sports betting segment, Sports lottery, actually with the opening of this market, as we know it in countries south of us, not west and north. Of course, with all the effects on addiction and on the less effective control; by allowing accessibility, as you say, not only on pumps, but in so-called betting and betting stations, which is a completely different philosophy of attraction, I have mentioned this to you. You said there was someone else out there who's attached to it. Dear colleague Pogačnik, I will slowly read the relevant stakeholders to you. And these are not all because I have a mountain of papers, letters, relevant, and I will only point out some – with names and surnames; but not some sometime. Association of Disabled Persons of Slovenia – Association of Disabled Persons of Slovenia – Association of Disabled Persons, Association of Disabled Persons, Association of Disabled Persons, Association of Disabled Workers, Association of Disabled Workers Casino Portorož, Council of Workers of Hito Casinos, Association of Association of Blind and Disabled Slovenian Associations, Association of Disabled Persons of Slovenia, Association of Disabled Persons of the Republic of Slovenia, Association of Chronic Intestinal Diseases of the Clinical Department of Pediatry, Association of Disabled Persons of Slovenia, Association of Disabled Persons of the Forum of Slovenia, Karitas, Association of Association of Deaf and Deaf Slovenia, Sport Lottery, Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, Olympic Committees, Committee of the State Council announced by the veto, Lottery of Slovenia, Municipality of Nova Gorica. Let me add the European lottery association and many others that I will not list again and the statements that were made last year when it was submitted and this year when the debate was held in the National Assembly. Despite many calls for withdrawal from this law, only the Minister, whom we do not see in defending this law, which he himself has prepared without stakeholders, has withdrawn; with the impression that he is ready for a specific tenderer who will actually intervene in both special and classical gambling. It will probably be special with the purchase of Hita or any other Slovenian, perhaps even a state-owned company such as Hit, and with the entry into the market, which in most European countries, advanced countries are regulated, strictly regulated. And this, as I have already said, is also at the expense of the European Court of Justice, which practically deals with monopolies and encourages the liberalisation of certain markets, and points out that it is specific because of the addiction and the negative effects that such a sector in society may have on improper regulation. So there is no less or no more arguments if we want to remain a regulated country in this area, which has not only problems but also benefits from this sector, which we have been developing together for almost 40 years, and we have been leading this sector. In our area, this industry is practically retreating from some other giants who were still 30 or 40 years old with real sticks compared to our suppliers. So it is a decomposition of the industry, which not only encouraged the development of the region, such as the mountainous region, but in the best times contributed almost 2%, I am talking only about Hit, in the best years it contributed almost 2% to the Slovenian budget. I am disappointed at this, over the excuses and objections of the non-transparent preparation and involvement of stakeholders in amending this law, with the extreme conflict of results that we have the power to compare not only in countries south of us, namely Croatia, Bosnia and Serbia, but also in the Czech Republic, which have had this same experience with market liberalisation, and today speak only or mostly of the negative consequences of such behaviour, which is irresponsible, which creates a sense of lobbyist law with exactly the intention of doing so, untransparent, quickly, without public debate, without analysing the negative effects, so that all those who are stakeholders who receive money from this title are financed by this title are talking about humanitarian, disability, sports organisations, the European lottery association are directly against it, as well as local communities and trade unions in the gambling sector. Except – I apologize – the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, which is positive, and the opinion delivered by the representative of the SDS Group, there is no one here today who in any way advocates such doing. In one part I understood in the position of the members of the groups that Desus and Nova Slovenija would support this change of law, but there is no one who would hope to meet with the stakeholders and defend what you are doing today in silence and in an untransparent way in the National Assembly. However, I am talking about non-transparentness because of the drafting of a law that has been removed from the public. So it is an aggressive intervention by the Government into a sector that is extremely sensitive, which brings not only positive but also negative consequences; and by this you expose mainly vulnerable groups such as disabled people, athletes in one part, and of course humanitarians. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal is made by Dusan Shisko. I apologize to you, Member, but I saw you too late earlier that you wanted a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u84	President, there is no need to apologize. However, I missed the position immediately after the debate on the amendments began, and no one triggered it to see who would discuss it, and then we had a ping-pong. It's a good thing that Comrade Vojko didn't set up a network there to the speaker, because both Comrade Pogačnik and his colleague, the Germans, passed the balls, because no one else was there. Once, he told Jože something. That's what I'm trying to say is it would be advisable for you to start the list in the future and have them sign up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I must say, you're right. They were checking in from the front, and I was writing down who wanted to discuss it. And they also received the word, of course those who wanted the replica and were entitled to it also received it. Vojko Starović wants a word. A debate or something? [[…]] Here you go, Mr. Starovic, a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. I, when I mix apples and pears, as my esteemed colleague expresses himself, would only say so. I'm the one who told the joint responsibility that we will understand each other, that I will tell him clearly what this is about, because he obviously understands, but he doesn't want to understand. [[…]] If households, financial organizations, the state had been so indebted and banks had failed and gone bankrupt, then all those apartments, when they were loans — the answer to yours, my colleague — would have gone all the way, that's the danger, all the things would have gone. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u87	Your Honor, I'm sorry to interrupt. Mr Pogačnik, I have so far allowed a broad debate, even though we are discussing the amendment. And everyone's debate was very broad, and I'm also going to let Mr Starović do that. Here you go. Go on. [[advertising from the hall]] You'll get it when it's done. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u88	You don't when I'm talking.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u89	Here you go, Mr. Starovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u90	Look what would have happened. If the banks go bankrupt, what happens? It's a bankruptcy mass and it's all going bankrupt. And then all those apartments that the Slovenians bought would go for sale. After all, the Company for Bank Claims Management — keep it quiet — was set up by the then government, Janša’s government, because it knew that there would be no other way out, because it all went somewhere. Then we just kept going so we wouldn't mix things up, and the pears did, as my colleague says. One more time. We must, once again, stress, in this matter that we are not defending our national budget, the public budget, that money goes to those private people who will take it out of our people, is precisely this amendment and I am talking about it. And I feel bad. Let's say we read today, and you understand, I won't say anything wrong, because my friend Boscarol is fine. But we have subsidized his development and Europe – and he sells it to America. He's right, but why don't we ask, we don't defend our capital if we've invested to settle what's been invested. Here, that's thinking. We have to take care of our capital, our ability to produce. And not sell it out, please. Let's be responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Before I give a procedural mag. Mark Pogačnik's word, I would really like to warn all those who will discuss that I will act in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 75. Today we are talking about the amendment at this point, and I am therefore warning everyone that I will act exclusively as the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Pogačnik, please. You have a procedure? The debate, Mr. Marko Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u92	Yes, Madam President, thank you for the debate. But look, you have to have one red thread of holding a meeting, Mr. President. But we can't talk now, I don't know if we have a law on gambling, but here we are talking about the debt of Slovenia to banks. That's what I'm asking you not to let go. This point has been going on for quite some time, and I expect the width of the debate to be the same as it was from the beginning. Look, buddy German. The opening of the field of sports betting is also north of Slovenia, not only south. Dear German colleague, due to the existing legislation, there are many sports problems in the European competition. They have problems because they perform in European competitions, the main sponsors of which are sports betting. And when the competition is in Slovenia, these leagues, this competition, whose sponsors are sports betting, if they advertise them, what in the protocol in the leagues in which they play, they have to get a penalty in Slovenia. And that's not enough. A number of international competitions are under the umbrella or sponsoring of foreign sports betting in which leagues, competitions are performed by Slovenian clubs; and for this they get a fine. This means that the budget of sports clubs is falling. And according to my behaviour, the Hockey Association of Slovenia, whose president is a prominent member of the Social Democrats, supported the opening of sports betting and also publicly stated that the Hockey Association is receiving significantly less funding in recent periods. I think the Koskarska Association has also supported, a number of football clubs have supported or welcomed the opening of the market.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Pogačnik, please listen to me, first warning. My predecessor opened the debate on this amendment, the debate was very broad and I didn't want to change anything and I just kept doing it. So much for your knowledge. Mr. German, did you want a debate? Okay. How much time do you have? It's a bit extreme. Nothing, actually. You're already down. [[advertising from the hall]] Look, you're already minus 6, no, no, it's already minus. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Mr Matjaž German, you no longer have the time available. [[advertising from the hall]] Look, but I'm warning you in advance, I'm going to give you a warning if you're going to use the replica procedurally. I'm warning you in advance. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u94	Dear Vice President, I've told you everything that it is. I am calling this off to a procedural proposal. And I'm really asking all stakeholders not to act like children, they said everything. I thank you for your good intentions and debate, and I would like you all not to confirm this law. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I won't complicate it. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Boštjan Koražija has a word, a debate. Too bad you haven't waited a little longer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u96	Okay. Did Mr. Montenegro even want to discuss it earlier? No, no, no. Okay. This is the case, since, in fact, all the debaters have already raised more or less the main problems of this law, and I would like to point out one other fact that humanitarian organisations, such as Karitas and the Red Cross, are against this law as well as the Slovenian Philosopher's Conference. And in fact I would expect them to at least be by the NSI, Mr. Pogačnik at least discussed and told us [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] It's a general debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u97	Dear Member, if you have listened to me, I have said that I will apply the Rules of Procedure, regardless of the fact that a general debate has been opened before. I want you to talk [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u98	I don't know, you gave everyone a general discussion before, but I don't, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u99	I warned you because they asked me to respect the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u100	But they could have discussed it in general.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u101	I won't discuss it with you. I'm in charge of the session. I'm responsible for the procedure we're taking. If you want to discuss the amendment that has been tabled, you have the floor. If I don't, I'll do as I said. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u102	In fact, against this law, as has already been said, is the Slovenian Philosopher's Conference and I will just go to the first amendment or article 18.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u103	Mr. Ambassador, you obviously don't even know what point we're at. One amendment to Article 12 has been tabled to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u104	Okay. I'm giving up the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u105	Okay, thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. Mr. Chernigoy, please. We have concluded the debate on the amendment, which will be decided on Wednesday, 23 March 2022 in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. At the end of the day, that is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the State's Attorney's Office. The draft law was tabled by a group of 14 Members and Members with a first-signed Branet Golubović. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Justice as the working body at its 36th meeting, on 17 February 2022. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at this meeting of the working body. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u106	Nicely greeted, president and everyone else! The drafter of the law in question wanted to upgrade the record of the performance of the readiness and on-call procedure and the record of the working time of the state prosecutors with information on the name of the Attorney General. The fact is that personal data must be processed as much as possible and therefore no information on the name of the Attorney General is needed. The contents of the new law are not clear; it is not clear what to change the order that is good and which shortcomings no one has pointed to. Perhaps even the proposer does not know exactly why he prepared this novel. He explained on his mother's working body that he had drafted the amendment of the law in order to open the debate on European Delegated Prosecutors. This is a matter of certain manoeuvres that are unnecessary, and this is an abuse of the legislative and legal procedure. The position of the Slovenian National Party is that the European Prosecutor's Institute is unnecessary. It's an attack on the sovereignty of justice in a country. Likewise, certain smart EU Member States have not introduced a European Prosecutor and do not participate with their representatives in this body. In the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, we have in the 35th article of the State Prosecutor, so we will insist in the Slovenian National Party that the prosecution of crimes in our country is solely a state prosecutor and not a European prosecutor. However, the Ministry knows at what request of the Justice Minister we have joined the system of the European Prosecutor's Office. At this point, I would like to point out that we are working to ensure that the law enforcement body is professional. This is the only criterion under which the prosecutor has to act. Many times, it is because of the mistakes of the prosecution and the police that the cases in court do not experience a judicial epilogue. It appears in public with the finger to the work of the courts, although it is an unacceptable professional error of the state prosecutor's office. Of course, these errors occur to a large extent, and the prosecution has been alerting staff deficits for many years. The government should make sure that there is more interest in the work of the prosecutor's office, including in the way of calling for more job vacancies for paid traineeships. This would result in a professional staff that would stay in this institution in the long term. We estimate that the Prosecutor's Office is currently weak, both human and professional, so it will have to be the responsibility of the next Justice Minister to address this issue in particular. It would be good for the future Justice Minister to be a member of the prosecution for knowing the issue. I conclude with the view that, in the entire chain of criminal proceedings, the weakest member of the prosecution is.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u108	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues! By amending the law, the proposer proposed the establishment of a legal basis for the content of the alert, which would include, in addition to other information, the name of the Public Prosecutor in readiness as an essential ingredient. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we join the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which points out that in the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the draft law as subject to regulation, there are also provisions which are not regulated by the proposal for a law below. The proposed novel ZDT-1F merely complements the set of data to be kept in the record of the performance of the readiness and on-call and the record of the working time of the state prosecutors. The proposed amendment to Article 44, paragraph 4, of the ZDT-1 is insufficiently substantiated to the extent that it is not possible to explain the reasons for the extension of the data set in both records. As a result, the principle of processing the smallest amount of data is violated, which constitutes a violation of Article 38 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which, of course, lays down this type of personal data. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the collection of data on the name of the State Prosecutor for the purpose of keeping both records is not necessarily necessary, and the collection and processing of additional types of personal data without justification of justified reasons is also illegal and unconstitutional. We have not supported the draft law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group on the home labour body. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u109	Thank you, too. The positions of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Tina Heferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In the LMŠ Group we have no problems with honesty, we have never had them and we do not have them today. The fact is that the proposal for a new law, which we have considered under this point, came to our house on our initiative only and for one reason only, is that we have prevented further harmful interference with the law on the prosecution by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the current government. If we remember the saga, which we have been following for a very long time with regard to the two European Delegated Prosecutors, I will not be particularly renewing it now, we have been able to see the entire Slovenian public that the tendency and desire of the current government to politicise these functions, both the prosecution and the European Public Prosecutor's Office, is great. At a time when the case had moved from a dead point, it was at the time of the interpretation against Minister Dikaucič – in fact, one of the conditions for the Minister to stop interpreting, that these two Delegated Prosecutors would be sent to Europe – we thought in the opposition and also in the LMŠ that the story would be over. However, the Government surprised the negative and prepared a new proposal for a legislative text that would allow for the further politicisation of this function, i.e. the European Public Prosecutor's Office. So at that time in LMŠ we jumped on our feet and prepared, practically with today’s new law on the prosecution, a kind or very sincere change of law. With this we wanted to seal the law somehow. We know that other changes, when the law is opened or in the legislative procedure, must not be made. This is one of the democratic options, one of the democratic tools we have in the parliamentary democratic system. In this way, as I have already mentioned, we have closed the law for all others, according to our assessment of the harmful changes that this government has been making in the shadow of all developments. Like I said, honesty is our virtue. We know and acknowledge exactly why we have tabled this novel as our proponents. It's not that we don't know, it's not that we don't realize that the amendments we've proposed are really unnecessary, but it's that we, as we say, wanted to prevent further interference under the prosecution law. As has been the case so far in our four-year mandate, we have also listened to the Legislative and Legal Service on this occasion when, in its comments, she made quite a few comments in her opinion, which were very clear, very well-founded, professionally justified. As a representative of the applicant alone, I had no qualms about admitting my mistake if you want me to say that the proposal of the novel is not appropriate to accept it. I have also said and thanked all the colleagues from the Legal and Legislative Service who have drawn up this opinion. As we say, we have no problems in LMŠ. Moreover, we are always trying to follow professional decisions, informed decisions, and not politicise where there is no place for this. And for the end, I'd like to do the same as any of my predecessors, but I'm going the other way. I would like the next Justice Minister to be such that he is not in criminal proceedings, and I would like the next government to be such that it does not allow for the politicisation of the Prosecutor's Office in Slovenia, the European Prosecutor's Office and will treat all branches of government with respect.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats should be presented by the mag. Meira Hot. I see she's not in the hall. That is why the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented to us by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! The Group of Members and Members of the LMŠ with the first signed Branet Golubović submitted to the National Assembly, following a regular procedure, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. As the objective of the proposed amendment, the applicant shall specify the precision and upgrade of the record of the performance of the alert and the on-call procedure and the records of the working time of the public prosecutors who have given their consent in the work which provides for the content of the data required for the record. In addition to the prosecutor’s personal name, who does his work on a stand-by basis, the registries would necessarily include the name of the public prosecutor. The proposal to supplement the law therefore lays down the legal basis for the content of the preparedness register, which will also include the name of the Public Prosecutor in readiness as an essential ingredient. According to Members of the New Slovenia, this is a completely inappropriate proposal, which was intended only to block other legislative proposals, as confirmed by the bill-makers on the Justice Committee. You could say that this is an abuse of the right to legislative initiative. The bill is an attempt by the LMŠ to block the announced government proposal for the amendment of the State Prosecutor's Office Act. The draft amendments to the law were not supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or by the State Council, and many concerns were also raised by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. It is no wonder that the proposal for a law on the labour market did not receive support, nor did the applicants support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u113	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the production and traffic laws under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 42 Members and Members with first-signed mags. Diane Jew and Violeto Tomić. The draft law was considered by the Health Committee as a mother's work at the 17th session of 17 February 2022. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u114	President, once again, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, my friend! The purpose of today's draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Production and Trafficking of Non-Drugs is to establish, in accordance with the Single Convention on Drugs of 1961 ratified in 1963, a substantive and terminological distinction between cannabis as a cultural plant of the Cannabis genus and cannabis, on the other hand, as a drug that can be obtained from this plant if grown under special conditions and specifically for this purpose. According to the applicant’s assessment, the latter would help to establish a system of cannabis cultivation and production for medical purposes in our country. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not oppose systemic changes in this area, but the fact is that the proposal for a law that opens up an extremely sensitive social area, which ultimately also affects human life and health, is once again in the National Assembly only a good month before the parliamentary elections. Historically, this is nothing special, since this law always reopens right before the elections. Given the magnitude of the consequences of the adoption of the law, it is entirely unacceptable, in particular, that the law has not been made public, so that citizens and citizens can tell about the content of their law. We believe that such a change in sectoral legislation must also require a broad social consensus. The proposed amendments to the law fundamentally affect the existing legal order in the field of illicit drugs and thus fundamentally alter the view of cannabis as a illicit drug. From the point of view of health, social, security, financial and other consequences, such a proposal for legislative amendments also requires in-depth analyses, which are not contained in the law. The bill thus does not solve the whole problem of cannabis in Slovenia. However, the solutions contained in the draft law are not consistent with the Single Convention on Drugs of 1961 and the United Nations Convention against the Illicit Traffic in Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of 1988, which stipulate that regulation must be such as to prevent the abuse of cannabis, the movement into illicit trafficking and the negative effects on human health. Since the regulation in the draft law does not meet those requirements, a proposal for a law, if adopted, could also have an important negative impact on the overall public health of our country. The Ministry of Health has already approached and drafted a proposal for a law on the cultivation and transport of hemp for medical purposes, which is currently in intersectoral coordination, for the systematic regulation of the field of hemp cultivation for medical purposes. In the light of all of the above, we have not supported the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party in question on the Home Committee. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u115	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Željka Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u116	President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! In 1999, it is not yet clear, either because of negligence or because of bad intentions, that Slovenia has legalised the use of the term cannabis for the designation of one of the drugs, which is called Cannabis by the international professional term in the United Nations Convention. The use of this term was then abandoned by Slovenian legal language. The legal basis for the classification of plants among drugs and the automatic treatment of such plants as the production of drugs was also legal. Since the term hemp followed by the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language means a high cultural plant with palm leaves grown because of fibers and seeds, or its seeds, this has created a significant confusion between the so-called industrial hemp and hemp used as a drug, either used as a medicine or abused without authorisation. As knowledge of the medical potential of cannabis drugs grew over the years, so the cannabis plants became increasingly difficult to distinguish between cultural plants and drugs and their use or abuse. All who wanted to grow and transform cannabis into industrial, agricultural, horticultural industries or for these purposes were and are still exposed to stigma and excessive restriction and control. For many who wanted to produce or use cannabis for medical purposes, this was prevented. Some of them have criminal prosecutions, too. Any possession of suspected seed parts shall be evident from the possession of the prohibited hemp drug, not ascertaining whether it is a drug or merely a plant origin. Your Honor! All of this is more stringent and less precise than the previous six-year-old United Nations Convention. The original text of the Single Convention on Drugs, which is the basic framework for regulating the drug field in all countries of the world, clearly defines in its Article 1 all the necessary concepts and procedures to be followed by the signatory countries, i.e. Slovenia. The difference between plants and drugs is clearly defined, as well as the explicit difference between the Cannabis plant and the drugs it can give. The drugs, called cannabis, are only flowers and resins of the plant mentioned. Only the Slovenian text of the said Convention, which we considered genuine for almost two decades, does not take into account all these significant differences. The same term is used for drugs and for cultural plants, so farmers and food producers must explain that their, completely harmless crops are industrial or common hemp. Although without adjectives it is quite enough because we have a special name for drugs and procedures for their acquisition, which are unfortunately not available in the Slovenian translation. For almost five years now, we all know what was also recognised in the National Assembly — that the translation of the Convention does not have legal effect and that it is a personal device. The Committee on Health of the National Assembly has, on several occasions, unanimously recommended that the Ministry and Government eliminate this discrepancy, but unfortunately nothing has happened. For all this we have prepared and introduced a law, the only consequence of which would be the introduction of an appropriate designation, the expression of hemp without adjectives. This term would be limited to plants and their use in agriculture and for food, industrial and horticultural purposes. For all others now banned substances and activities would only use the appropriate name, that is cannabis. But at the committee's meeting, we witnessed organised resistance to civil society work, which is linked by large-scale funding, of course budgetaryly, by the Ministry of Health, which gives us the impression that there is more to the opposition and to some other interests than just professional concerns. If guests were to use the correct name of drugs — cannabis — instead of using the term “cannabis, ” the vast majority of them would still be true, but they would still be depressed. The agenda item and the content of the legislative proposal were clear, merely the restriction on the use of the term hemp on the agricultural plant and the introduction of an appropriate designation of cannabis for drugs the abuse of which has harmful effects were widely explained on the Committee. In the Group of Social Democrats, we therefore regret that advocates of fear and mud water are always able to prevent the adoption of a law the only consequence of which would be the proper designation of known terms and the removal of stigma from legal and traditional activities of cultivation and processing of agricultural plants, in this case cannabis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u118	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. For the second time in Levica, we are actively engaged in the regulation of the Cannabis plant, which has been misdiagmatically stigmatised. Guilty. Whenever we want to take a step forward, they appear from the Ministry of Health and offensively destroy every proposal we make. Thus, due to two or three officials in the Ministry, Slovenian farmers cannot compete equally on the hemp farming market. Our proposal this time went solely towards clarifying the wrong terminology, which, contrary to international conventions, wrongly equates the term cannabis with drugs, plants and their cultivation, and defines it as the production of drugs even when it comes to cultural plants and regardless of the THC content itself. The entire regime in force is based on the incorrect translation of the Single Convention on Drugs, under which all restrictive legislation is based and cannot be found to produce adequate legal solutions for the production of cannabis for medical purposes or to allow the cultivation of cannabis plants as a whole as a cultural plant for seeds, for fibres, for horticultural purposes, thereby causing serious and unacceptable economic damage. It's like cutting all the pears, apples and plums just because, all over the country, it can be cooked from them. We have drawn up the bill in a desire to harmonise the legal terminology in order to properly define substances and procedures and to clearly distinguish hemp as a cultural plant and cannabis, which also has medically useful value. This means, in particular, aligning the Slovenian regime with international and European regulation. Its adoption would also serve as a basis for the subsequent arrangement of plant cultivation for the production of medical cannabis. Of course, drugs remain regulated and unauthorised property and production of fines. We suggested deleting the hemp plant from the list of illicit drugs and replacing it with cannabis. Therefore, the fundamental issue of the bill is that in order to establish any appropriate legislation in the field of hemp, it is necessary to address the area of terminology as a matter of priority, since this constitutes a basis on which any more or less restrictive regulation will be based. Since cannabis and cannabis are not synonymous, their equations are significantly above the existing Convention Frameworks, which specifically lay down control measures for drugs and for plants from which drugs can be obtained. The term hemp is used in the sense of drugs in the Slovenian normative language and has never been used in practice before 2000, when this applicable law entered into force. In any of the many historical, professional and linguistic definitions, the term hemp is nothing more than a cultural plant for seeds, fibres, Horticulture and herbalism with a long and rich tradition in the Slovenian countryside. The conventionally inadequate definition of cannabis and the non-use of cannabis in reality are not only a hindrance to medical use and a 100% dependency on imported pharmaceutical products, they also allow for extensive repression and prosecution of patients and users, the onset of patients on the black market and high costs for the judicial apparatus and law enforcement authorities. However, the development of promising industries, which have no impact on public health and safety, is disproportionately and severely hampered. We therefore strongly regret the rejection of this proposal for regulation by the coalition, as all reasonable and factual arguments have been heard.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as well as Minister Mag. Matthew Tonin, who's already with us today! The proposal foresees that illicit drugs would no longer include plants from which drugs can be obtained but would only be identified as substances of natural and synthetic origin. The definition of the production of illicit drugs, which would no longer include the cultivation of plants from which drugs can be obtained, would also be changed. As plants from which drugs can be obtained and can be grown, opium poppy, coca bush and Cannabis plants would be identified as proposed. The proposal foresees that the poppy could be grown for seeds for nutritional purposes and that hemp could be grown for seeds and fibres for industrial, nutritional and horticultural purposes if the THC content did not exceed 1 %. However, the proposed content and percentage of THC in hemp plants that can be grown for seeds and fibres could pose a risk to the health of the population. This would mean that one gram of hemp contains 10 mg THC. In view of the opinion of the European Food Safety Authority, the dose of 2.5 mg THC per day for an adult represents the lowest dose at which adverse effects on human health have already been identified. Both psychotropic effects, such as euphoria, dizziness, confusion and somnolence, as well as the effects on activities, particularly the effects on reaction time and memory. For THC, the European Food Safety Authority has set a reference dose, thus a safe dose, which states that for a healthy adult the daily intake should not exceed 0,06 mg THC. If we look at what THC content is allowed by neighbouring countries, we find that the proposed 1% is much higher. In Croatia only industrial hemp containing less than 0,2 % THC may be grown in Austria less than 0,3 % THC and in Italy less than 0,6 % THC. The problem of today's proposal is that, with the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, it does not contribute to the proper regulation of the area of hemp. The terminology and definition are not consistent with the legislation on medicinal products, the European Pharmacopoeia and the Slovenian National Supplement to the European Pharmacopoeia. All Slovenian regulations must comply with international law and with existing international treaties and the proposed regulation is not in accordance with the provisions of the Single Convention on Drugs and relevant European Union legislation. In Novi Slovenija we respect international commitments. There is concern for healthy society and public health among our priorities, so we have not supported the proposal of the law on the labour market.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u122	Thank you, Vice President. Since 2017, when hemp from the first group of illicit drugs has been classified as second, nothing has happened in this area between plants and substances which are otherwise dangerous to health, but can be used in medicine. We discussed this in depth in the National Assembly and the conclusions adopted to date remain unfulfilled. Even in the SAB Group, at the beginning of the previous year, we went to this Gordy knot and, in order to determine the conditions for the cultivation and processing of cannabis, of course for medical purposes, introduced a new Law on the Production and Trafficking of illicit drugs. We were concerned about all those who were forced to serve the black market and to expose themselves to both the production of dubious quality and the uncontrolled doses and the law enforcement authorities. Therefore, the SAB party also supports the key solutions to the law before us today, which finally addresses the problem of outdated legislation in the field of hemp. The new proposal introduces the appropriate translated terms of the Convention on Drugs and International Law and thus lays down the legal basis for further regulation of the cultivation of plants for medical use. This is how we correct the mistake of translating the European Convention on Drugs, which has also led to the stigmatisation and criminalisation of the plant. The legislation on the production and trafficking of illicit drugs also eliminates the wrong definitions of cannabis plants and clearly establishes that it is a cultural plant, unlike cannabis, which is a illicit drug. The amendments define, inter alia, the conditions under which hemp plants can be grown lawfully for industrial, nutritional and horticultural purposes. In the SAB Group, we believe that incurable patients and many other patients in Slovenia are needlessly deprived of treatment aid due to hemp incrimination, especially in pain relief. This has been promoted only by outdated and non-living treatment of cannabis, while in the most developed countries of the world legislation clearly defines the safe and controlled use of preparations successfully introduced by modern medicine. The man in whom hemp extract only works in dealing with the disease, but only a man who has spent the last months of his life trying to survive as much pain as possible, can be helped by at least mutilating modern methods and preparations, rather than leaving him to Black Market blackmail and illegal. That is why we have co-signed the bill and we regret the deafness and insensitivity of the coalition. The danger of an addictive trap spreads in Slovenia to other areas that could threaten our society more than cannabis. When there is no force to stop the first dactylographer in the country from labeling 280 signs of dissension, let us look the truth in the eye — Twitter is also a powerful drug for some. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u124	Thank you, Vice President. Hemp is a plant that could certainly help bring about the new rapid development of Slovenian agriculture. It's a very unwelcome plant that, in addition to the most mentioned hallucination, can do a lot of things. The calculations showed that a farmer on just one hectare could enrich his stake with at least twice the profit. If I'm not mistaken, they also wanted to build a plant on Polzel to take care of hemp textiles. Many doctors believe that cannabis oil and tea are very healthy. Recent studies in cancer treatment have also shown that cannabis resin is very effective at least to relieve pain. I could list a number of cases where hemp has proved effective, but what if all things stop in the first place when an average citizen and also those who are supposed to control hemp do not separate between concepts. I believe that the applicants wanted to achieve at least a clear definition of cannabis as a cultural plant and should be separated from cannabis as a illicit drug. The bill is intended to eliminate the professionally incorrect assumptions of the informal translation of the Convention on Drugs. It clearly identifies the difference between cannabis and cannabis. However, because something has been lost in the translation, we still cannot define legal economic and amateur activities related to hemp, which should not be controlled by the drug system. It is sad that due to inadequate translation our producers pay a 300% margin of monopolist who markets hemp seeds, which proves only that hemp is a profitable plant and that it is essential that terminology is also regulated. I would be very happy to support this proposal if it were good, but unfortunately it has quite ambiguity. It is certainly a start, a warning and a call to start looking at hemp as a plant of the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u126	Today, the legislative path for the amendment of the Law on the Production and Trafficking of illicit drugs is ending. With the novelty, we wanted to eliminate the wrong definitions of cannabis plants as drugs and to make it clear that cannabis is a cultural plant and that cannabis is a prohibited drug. Obviously, we have misjudged that it is time to finally lay the legislative foundations in line with international conventions and established standards that will enable its safe use for medical, nutritional and industrial purposes, to lay the groundwork for ending stigmatisation of cannabis as a cultural plant and to lay the basis for its further regulation in the field of medical and personal use. As co-proposers, once again, we would like to point out that our purpose was not, as the Government accuses us in its position, that we want to have a negative impact on human health or that we want to achieve legalisation that will contribute to the greater use of cannabis for recreational purposes. It's a pure delusion. We just wanted to correct the mistake caused by the wrong translation of the Single Convention on Drugs, which led to the stigmatisation and criminalisation of this plant. The Convention distinguishes between cannabis and the cultural plant hemp, which is essential for the definition of legitimate activities, namely cultivation for industrial, nutritional and horticultural purposes. As you probably know, agricultural areas planted with industrial hemp are shrinking. While there were about 500 hectares years ago, today there are about 200. €900 million was a valuable market for industrial hemp in Europe in 2019 and €3.3 billion worldwide. In 2025, it is estimated to be eight times higher. Hemp is increasingly used in food, cosmetics, textiles, and cotton. The Slovenian tolar was made of hemp paper. The question is therefore not whether anything should be done against the reduction of the production of industrial hemp, but also when and what, and whether it should also allow the production and processing of hemp for medical purposes. More than 40 countries have so far made it possible to use cannabis, and six years have passed since we adopted decisions in the National Assembly of the Health Committee which imposed regulation on the Ministry. But all that has worked so far for the Ministry and Government is that in 2017 they moved cannabis from the first to the second group of the list of illicit drugs. Since then, we've only heard promises. In the last 20 years, the interest of patients in the use of cannabis and cannabinoids for the treatment of various conditions, including chronic pain, cancer, depression, anxiety disorders, sleep disturbances and neurological disorders, has increased, thus also raising the scientific interest in substances found in cannabis plants. At the turn of the millennium, Israel and the Netherlands, and later Switzerland, the Czech Republic, Australia and Germany, adopted legislation allowing the medical use of cannabis. Most EU countries are now allowing or at least considering the use of cannabis or cannabinoids for medical purposes. The need for a fundamental and comprehensive change of legislation in Slovenia has been pointed out for many years by the growing awareness and increasing number of civil society, as well as doctors and scientists. They support research and appropriate regulation of cannabis for medical purposes, increased agricultural production and increased use in the economy, and, last but not least, for the awareness and prevention of young people for protection against abuse. The Cannagiz Hemp Economic Interest Association has also called on the competent ministries and the government to regulate the area of hemp so that Slovenian farmers producing industrial hemp can be internationally competitive and the industry can develop. The largest victims of long-term debates on possible legalisation are patients who are not available medicines and cannabis products. Medical inaccessibility, the stigma of drugs and the availability of different information mean more black market and quality and health of harmful products. And that's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 43. On the agenda, that's for discussion on the response of the Minister of Defense. Matthew Tonin at my employer's business inquiry in connection with the system's regulation of the gassiness area. At its 29th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response by the Minister of Defence of Magi. Matthew Tonin referred to Mojce Žnidarič's question on the systematic regulation of the field of firefighting. I give the floor to Mojca Žnidarič for further explanation of the proposal for a discussion on the Minister's response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present, especially to the Minister! At the previous 29th ordinary meeting of the National Assembly, I am Minister of Defence of Magi. She posed an oral question to Matthew Tonin concerning the systemic regulation of the field of firefighting. In the field of firefighting, we have waited a long time for better systemic regulation of the area. The parliamentary procedure has just been amended and supplemented by the Fire Protection Act and the Fire Protection Act. Both marriages were also adopted in the last week. In the parliamentary question just a month ago, I wondered how the proposed legislative changes would affect the regulation of the status of voluntary and professional firefighters, what changes the fire protection legislation brings, how the conditions for the operation of representative organisations in the field of fire protection are improving. I further wondered why the age for a voluntary operative firefighter is increasing to 65 years and whether the retirement age for professional firefighters is also increasing or whether there is any deterioration in their current status, such as the innovations in the organisation of operational fire brigades in companies and when and how we can expect the regulation of the field of fire insurance. I also wanted to receive confirmation or denial of the claim whether they maintained the statement of the Slovenian Trade Fire Union that the legislative proposals were not in line with the representative organisations in the field of firefighting. Since the time for the Minister's answers was limited and there were many questions, the Minister was unable to answer all the questions raised, so I propose that a broader discussion be held on this important subject concerning our firefighter heroes at the next meeting. Today we have this opportunity to check how we have contributed to improving the situation of firefighters and where the common challenges lie ahead. Slovenian firefighters are key in the protection and rescue system, and without them we are virtually unable to imagine intervention in any accident. Firefighters become key rescuers that respond to all kinds of accidents. Compared to other countries, we are extremely successful because we maintain and nurture the combination of volunteering and professionalism. We have a wide range of voluntary fire companies, which are almost professionally trained in different centres and thus acquire appropriate knowledge. This is what gives our fire department great weight and validity. Therefore, it is not unusual that Slovenia is the one to host the Fire Olympics this year. Our firefighters were also heroes in Northern Macedonia, where they practically led the entire intervention. Our role, i.e. the task of our legislators as well as the executive branch, is to adopt appropriate system laws that can further improve the status of Slovenian firefighters. In the last week, we have adopted two such laws, taking into account even three income laws. That is why I will be happy to listen to everyone today, both to the competent minister and to all Members and Members, including some firefighters and fire extinguishers. With a fireman’s greeting: “Help!” Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Minister for the Defence of Magi. Matthew Tonin for further explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u130	Dear Vice-Presidents and Members of Parliament! First of all, thank you so much for this opportunity that we will be able to talk today about Slovenian firefighters, which we all support in one way or another. I believe that with our collective strength, we can move our system to an even higher level. Organised firefighting has a long tradition in Slovenia. For 150 years, our societies have been operating in different ways. Currently in Slovenia we have a thousand 299 fire companies, voluntary, of course. There are currently 35,000 operational firefighters in voluntary fire brigades and an additional 12,000 700 trainee firefighters. We also have 13 professional units across Slovenia. These professional units employ about 650 professional firefighters. These figures give a clear picture that firefighters are certainly the most numerous and at the same time the most operational organisation in the Slovenian system of protection and rescue. They also do virtually everything or a large majority of interventions in different natural and other disasters. For example, last year there were a total of 24 000 600 interventions, of which 23 000 575 were attended by Slovenian firefighters. In the past and this week, three important laws were passed in this Chamber in the National Assembly, which were also mentioned in the initial reply to the question. Let me mention them. The Fire Action Act, which finally updates the basic system law in the field of firefighting after 17 years and allows for the further development of Slovenian firefighting. Second thing. New Fire Protection Act, which will be the basis for the state to take over standardised fire insurance on its shoulders. Thirdly, however, it is also an important issue of the new Income Act, which brings a special fire-extinguishing benefit of EUR 1000 to Slovenian firefighters operating for 10 years. In this way, the firefighter with an average net salary will have an additional annual salary of around €600 to €700, thanks to our society for serving the communities in which they operate. In addition to these important laws, there has been a historic breakthrough in this mandate concerning the use of European funds. In the next six, seven years, the protection and rescue system itself will be made available with €70 million of European money to further strengthen our protection and rescue system. EUR 20 million of European money comes from an old, previous financial perspective. All procedures have been launched here, the call has been published and from these 20 million euros is planned to purchase special fire vehicles to deal with climate-related natural disasters. Then there is an additional EUR 25 million planned in the Recovery and Resistance Plan to make an important reform of our security and rescue system in centralising and better coordinating all these rescue services. To this end, it will also happen and build a special national centre for civil protection, where all these services will be gathered under one roof. Then, in the new financial perspective, it is also envisaged EUR 25 million for the construction of new regional centres for professional training of Slovenian firefighters, both professional and voluntary. In addition, let me add that we are constantly increasing the funds we are earmarking for the co-financing of firefighting equipment. At the beginning of my term of office, 1 million 700 000 euros were available, today 2 million 600 000 euros are available for co-financing of equipment. In addition, in 2020, we provided the municipalities with funds to pay the firefighters' part of the cost of 6 million 500 000, a cod of funds, and also more than 3 million euros for all Slovenian firefighters' companies to receive a special compensation due to the loss of their income during codida. In the end, my sincere thanks to all firefighters and firefighters for their work.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Robert Pavšič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u132	Today’s present minister – because we haven’t seen much of him in Parliament so far – recently said that the truck and I were only a victim of an attempt at fraud. The same scam is here today. You know, enough fooling around, cheating, or lying all the time. Today we should actually have an interpolation at the plenary session, but we have a debate on the Minister's response to the state of firefighting in Slovenia. Otherwise, in view of the total and absolute uncriticism of the right field of Parliament, together with the aiders, it is clear that either the result of today's debate or the interpretation would be identical, because it is not content that is important to you, but only blindness. In this case, belonging to a lie. Even if we are used to these lies because there are so many that we meet them every day, it does not mean that we are not paying attention to them. It is easy to talk to or by force to favored journalists, but it is a little more difficult for those who have information, facts, and know the truth. If you're trying so hard, you can't change the truth. And the truth is that you have also succeeded in bringing dissension into Slovenian firefighting. It is sad that even the 150-year tradition of one of the most important humanitarian, cultural, educational and security movements in Slovenia is not the world, because everything is allowed for political points and chairs. Fire department. In the places where I come from, they say with pride that firefighterry is not a job — even though we call it public service — is a profession. So the people involved in the fire department were called to do so and carried out the mission. Members should also think the same way. We monitor everything possible and impossible and you do it in order to politicize firefighting, to separate it. And for that, absolutely everything is allowed, isn't it? We are today, and we will certainly listen to all kinds of bragging, but not to help, but to take advantage of it for ourselves. If I were you, I'd be very ashamed. And the details later.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Predrag Baković will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we will talk about the Minister's January response to the oral question of the adopted legislation on contents relating to firefighting and firefighters. At the 98th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, the amendment of the Fire Act was adopted two days ago on Wednesday, which is 16. 3. at the 30th regular session, as well as the amendment to the Fire Safety Act. The rapporteur asked how legislative changes would affect the regulation of the status of voluntary and professional firefighters, what changes the legislation on fire protection will bring, how the conditions for the operation of representative organisations in the field of fire protection, i.e. the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters and the Association of Firefighters of Slovenia, why the age of a voluntary operational firefighter is increasing to 65 years – we have not heard the answer today – whether the retirement age for professional firefighters is increasing or whether their status is deteriorating or so on. The Minister responded by summarizing and quoting proposed legal solutions. And since the Minister did not answer the question of the Member in his reply and also later in his consideration of the marriage proposals, I quote the question: “Do they hold the statements of the Slovenian Trade Fire Union that the legislative proposals were not in line with the representative organisations in the field of firefighting?” - Maybe today I can say more about it. For example, when and what was coordinated and when and why coordinated decisions were withdrawn. Both novelties have been subject to both support and criticism in the process of amending the legislation. On the amendment of the Fires Act, not only critics of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, but also trade firefighters' union. Let me remind you that the individual provisions of the Firearms Act were already harmonised before the proposal was put into the legislative procedure, but the Government has concluded that this does not belong to this law. Despite the fact that the drafters of the law by the professional firefighters union were once again aware of the comments concerning the age limitation of firefighters, the firefighters at the airport, the records of personal data bases, the firefighters in the professional core, the voluntary firefighting units and the obligations for the joint firefighting units in the industry complex, as already stated in the proposals of the law, they were not taken into account to a greater extent. How these two novels, the Fire and Fire Safety Act, will affect the regulation of the status of voluntary and professional firefighters and how the new fire safety regime will affect the development of firefighting, we will be able to assess only later when the legal solutions are implemented in practice. Only this will show whether marriage solutions are appropriate. Respected, the 150-year tradition of voluntary firefighting in Slovenia is reflected in the fact that fire-fighting voluntary societies are practically in every Slovenian village, involving more than 165 thousand members. According to the website of the Republic of Slovenia Protection and Rescue Administration, the fire department and one of the 11 voluntary protection, rescue and rescue forces are carrying out firefighting units organised as professional, voluntary firefighting units in firefighting companies and firefighting units in companies, institutions and other organisations. There are over a thousand 400 active fire brigades in the country, of which about 100 are industrial. In territorial fire brigades, of which 15 are professionals, more than 60 000 volunteer operational firefighters and more than 570 professional firefighters operate. Firefighting today is well organized, we can call it a job or mission of people throughout the territory in Slovenia, which has grown beyond its basic task of firefighting and rescue and has evolved into a modern, humanitarian and non-party organization. Members and members of the firefighters’ societies unselfishly help anyone in any kind of accident and give people social support. That is why we treasure them and trust them. Social Democrats support efforts to follow the news in Slovenia and develop it also through European means, if and, of course, when it is possible to draw or obtain them. However, legislation in this area should be clear and understandable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Andrej Černigoj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u136	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Honourable Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Defence of Magi. Matthew Tonin, the esteemed choir! Firefighting has a 150-year tradition in Slovenia, which has been registered in the DNA of all Slovenes and Slovenes. Many are involved in firefighting organisations, either voluntary or professional fire brigades. These interconnect and complement each other so that they can effectively prevent and extinguish fires. The task of fire companies is not only to put out and rescue fires, but people in firefighters have found social support and solidarity and unselfish assistance in the event of any accident. Through fire companies, members show their commitment to the Slovenian people and strengthen the existence of this consciousness. Today, in many places firefighting companies are the ones that unite and unite citizens in activities and activities specifically in the field of fire protection and in cultural and other fields. Fire brigades and societies have developed over the years into modern, humanitarian and non-partisan organisations. In Novi Slovenija we are aware of the importance of firefighting in Slovenia also due to the great activity of citizens in all firefighting structures, which have had many suggestions for improving the status of firefighters in Slovenia. We have accepted the leadership of the Ministry of Defence in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats with pride and patriotism. From the very beginning, the Christian Democrats treated fire and civil protection of the Republic of Slovenia in the same way as the vital part of the department at the side of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. We are aware of the great responsibility to the country at the time of the dissemination of covid-19, when this part of the department played a very important role in local communities. The good response, equipment and skills of firefighters, of course, need to be taken care of on a regular basis. The current government and New Slovenia have moved from words to actions and provided firefighters with better conditions for their operation to the welfare of all Slovenians. We also discussed the field of fires several times in the National Assembly, where we last adopted an amendment to the Fire Protection Act, which we have adapted to the Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities. With it, we predicted that the cost of standardised fire insurance for firefighters, their vehicles, equipment and facilities would be transferred from the municipalities to the country. According to the Ministry of Defence, the funds allocated to local communities to co-finance the purchase of fire-fighting vehicles and fire-fighting and rescue equipment in fire-fighting units will also increase from €6.3 million to €9 million. With the support of the coalition, Nova Slovenija has taken the biggest legislative step in the field of firefighting by adopting the amendment of the Firearms Act, which will allow the further development of firefighting and increase the coherence, rationality and effectiveness of the implementation of the operational tasks of firefighting and the public fire service. In New Slovenia we have proposed solutions that introduce additional concepts in the field of voluntary firefighting, namely a firefighter trainee and a veteran firefighter. We believe that the proposed solutions will further strengthen the types of voluntary firefighting in Slovenia. The Association of Firefighters of Slovenia has also acquired the competence to train volunteer firefighters and thus we have also listened to the economy and proposed a novelty to organise on individual industrial complexes an operational firefighting unit, together with several economic companies, establishments and other organisations that carry out their activities in this area. Such a unit will also be substantially more operationally prepared for fire and other accidents due to the increased number of firefighters and equipment. The law also made it possible to bring together professional firefighters in an interesting way, within the framework of the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters. In this way, we believe that comparable associations of interest are both voluntary and professional firefighters. The Ministry has drawn up several regulations and regulations to facilitate the operation of firefighters in the future. We did not forget the firefighters in Novi Slovenija and the coalition when preparing other legislation. Thus, we have proposed and adopted an additional €000 relief in the Income Act for operational firefighters who have been voluntarily and unprofessionally carrying out protection, rescue and assistance tasks for at least 10 years. In the VAT law, we reduced VAT for the purchase of personal protective and rescue equipment. The rules on training for small fire vehicles, police vehicles, ambulances and civil protection intervention vehicles have been drawn up. However, the Fire Prevention Regulation will regulate the implementation of fire protection activities in geographical areas where security services or firefighting units are unable to carry out tasks in accordance with the prescribed response time. The Regulation on the use and management of unmanned aircraft systems to carry out tasks in the field of protection, rescue and assistance will allow firefighters and other rescue, rescue and assistance to use drones in the field of intervention, exercise and prevention activities. Finally, the Regulation on the organisation, equipment and training of the security, rescue and assistance forces, including criteria for organising and equipping firefighting units, is one of the key rules for regulating the public fire service. When we talk about firefighting and the systemic regulation of the field of firefighting in Slovenia, we must not forget the key activities and tasks in the field of firefighting in the period 2020-2022. I would also like to recall the co-financing of the purchases of fire-fighting and rescue equipment, for which we provided €1.7 million in 2020, €2.4 million in 2021 and € 2.6 million in 2022. In 2021 and 2022, activities for the system of fire safety management on public rail infrastructure continue. Christian Democrats are aware of the challenges with regard to the legalisation of firehouses, since a large number of firehouses did not have or do not have adequate construction and utility permits. The active inclusion of GZS and URSZR has been reflected in the formulation of appropriate solutions in the regulations in this area that will allow the legalisation of such facilities. At the request of the Ministry of Defence, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia provided funds to pay for the work of the costs incurred in the area of protection, rescue and assistance during the outbreak of communicable covid-19 disease of EUR 6 and a half million. The municipalities could use part of these funds to pay the costs of hiring fire brigades for covida-19. To voluntary fire companies, the State has paid a total of more than EUR 3 million to compensate for the loss of revenue since it was unable to organise its social activities at the time of the expansion of the covida-19. The funds could be used to operate and purchase equipment. Allowances were paid to volunteer firefighters who intervened during the epidemic. In the first wave, 6 000 808 firefighters combined with almost 200 000 euros, in the second and third waves, 13 000 255 firefighters almost 600 000 euros. Also in the fourth wave, PKP10 provided for the payment of the hazard allowance and special burdens for paramedics, students and students in support of health care, we are talking mainly about volunteers, professional firefighters in professional sails and directors of professional fire department. Finally, I would add that in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats – we estimate that firefighting is a key area for the protection system against natural and other disasters, and because of its diversity and competence in each local community has an important role to play in a broader sense. Firefighting is a good example when, with uniform rules at national level and with the implementation of a public fire service at local level, there is a comparable response system across the country. We Christian Democrats believe and will always take care of the community whose important article is firefighting in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u138	Dear colleagues and colleagues! A colleague of Mojca Žnidarič asked the Minister for the Defence of Magi a question. For Matthew Tonin, with regard to the systematic regulation of the field of firefighting. The colleague asked the Minister very specific, clear questions. Indeed, in the field of firefighting, we have been waiting for a better so-called system regulation of this area for a long time. She has asked eight real and concrete questions, to which the Minister has not answered practically nothing. If I could quote -- because I also have time and I can be here, that's what I'm saying. These issues were discussed as already mentioned by colleague Predrag Baković. But I'll tell them again. This is: "How will the proposed legislative changes affect the regulation of the status of voluntary and professional firefighters?" This is a very clear question that requires a clear answer. “What changes do legislation bring in the field of fire protection?” Very clear. »How are the conditions for the operation of representative organisations in the field of fire protection improved, i.e. for the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters and the Association of Slovenian Firefighters?« The only question you answered was the fourth: “Why is the age of a voluntary operative firefighter increasing to 65 years?” You tried to answer something here, but in the SAB party we saw it very superficial, because then in the end you even said you might answer further. There probably wasn't time. Then it is a very interesting question: “Is the retirement age for professional firefighters rising or, in any way, worsening their current status?” »What are the news about the organisation of operational fire brigades in companies?« In general, here are very real, clear, clear questions, which would also require a clear answer from the minister responsible for this area. In your response, here I have a magnetogram, a respected minister, you were saying something your way, you were saying something. We will not talk about what firefighters are, because we all know what they are and what they represent in Slovenia, and this must be the case. But then you said that compared to other countries, we were extremely successful. Successful at what? Volunteering, I guess. Then you were talking about the invitation, some fire olympics, fire guards, mostly, everything you were talking about, except what you were being asked questions about. Here's the question. We have a question in the SAB because you didn't say anything. All you answered was to answer one more time later, after a colleague Mojca Žnidarič sent you back a question in the second part, she gave you specific questions, and there were no answers. As a result, she then served under Article 249, in order to have a broader debate so that we know what was going on. Dear Minister, the client of the SAB reminds you in your position that we have a feeling that it is more than obvious that on that day, Minister, you have not come to these questions and you probably don't know the matter either. I hope for those who are watching us – not for us Members here, but for firefighters, because this is a question for firefighters and for citizens – that you have all the answers today. Because, as I say, these answers are practically not intended for us Members, but for citizens and firefighters themselves. Mr Minister, what we are missing from the Sab party is also a photograph of you in certain firefighter situations, because you were always so prepared to take pictures, if I say so, when bombs were being dropped or when mud and things like that blew you away. You were always ready at the time, but in firefighters we didn't notice any big, important pictures to give importance to the category. However, what we missed — since the law also discusses systemic regulation — is a systemic regime in the field of firefighting. As you recall, we mentioned several times in the SAB party, Minister, about the payment. The SAB party has also repeatedly warned that wage obligations would pass to the Ministry of Defence. We've been saying this for four years, and we've been saying it for four years, but obviously it doesn't matter to you. Because this problem would burden the congregations, all those congregations where there are professional professions, where there are professional institutions for shutting down and saving. As you know, the Minister – I hope you know – does not pay all professional firefighters the Ministry of Defence, but they are paid by the municipalities. And in this way I would be burdened by the congregations in this situation, given that you're buying 780 and I don't know how many millions of equipment and we have one resolution worth 2 billion, which I've heard from you that it won't be until 2035, but it will be reduced to 2030. With what kind of money, we don't know. We don't know. It's nice to write, to write things like that. With regard to my constant question about the transfer of wages to the Ministry of Defence, I hope that one day they will get an epilogue to support this. Because in this way we would probably relieve — and we know that we would relieve — the congregations, not a little. I therefore absolutely welcome this broader debate on firefighters, and I also expect specific answers from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The position of the Group will in particular be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u140	Thank you. Have a nice hello to everyone again! Organised firefighting has more than 150 years of tradition in Slovenia. The first professional fire department was established 100 years ago. The public fire service is carried out at the level of the municipalities as a compulsory local public service. In larger cities or municipalities and in municipalities where this is the case, such as industrial development, transport infrastructure, fire threats to the natural environment and so on, the municipalities have established professional fire brigades. Currently, nearly a thousand 300 firefighters operate in voluntary firefighters companies, with over 35,000 operational firefighters, over 6,000 reserve firefighters, and nearly 13,000 trainee firefighters. In addition to voluntary fire brigades, we have 13 professional units in Slovenia that are organised as a public fire department and jointly employ around 650 professional firefighters. All these figures give a clear picture that firefighters are the most numerous and at the same time the most operational force in the system of protection against natural and other disasters or in the field of protection and rescue. Our common core objective is to allow for the further successful development of firefighting and to enhance the coherence, rationality and effectiveness of the implementation of the operational tasks of firefighting and the public fire service. Since we are aware of the importance and urgency of the fire service, we know how to listen to firefighters at the SMC and now at the party specifically. At the beginning of 2019 we adopted a supplement to the Firearms Act, in which we arranged a permanent allowance comparable to other uniformed professions. With the amendments to the Firearms Act at the time, the position of professional firefighters in relation to the permanent allowance has become comparable to other uniformed professions such as police officers, members of the permanent composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces and authorised officials under the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions Act. In the middle of 2020, we adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Traffic Rules Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 52 Members and Members, among whom I was first signed. With these changes, we have facilitated the transport of their young members, i.e. primary school younger children, with vans where the use of tachographs is no longer needed, since this was a unique one that was only applicable in Slovenian legislation. The Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities has also been supplemented, inter alia, by the Firearms Act, in an article which redefines the provision by the State of funds for standardised fire insurance for firefighters and vehicles, equipment and facilities. At the same time, amendments were also made to the Fire Protection Act, which provided for the provision of funds for these purposes from the Fire Fund. The regulation of this area was crucial as these funds are an important source for updating fire-fighting equipment at local level, ensuring the appropriate operationality and efficiency of fire-fighting units carrying out the public fire-fighting service. In the last week, we have also adopted very important amendments and additions to the three laws that contribute to the better situation of firefighters and firefighters, namely the amendments and additions to the Fire Prevention Act, the Fire Prevention Act and the Income Act, which have adopted a reduction of the annual tax base of EUR 1000 for residents who, in accordance with the rules on protection against natural and other disasters, voluntarily and unprofessionally carry out operational tasks of protection, rescue and assistance for at least 10 years. More in the debate. To conclude, let me point out that, and in the Group of Members in particular, we will continue to strive to improve the situation in the field of firefighting as one of the most important humanitarian activities in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u142	In our country, we can boast of over 45,000 operational volunteer firefighters. But we also have over a thousand professional firefighters who do more than 9,000 interventions each year. Firefighters are the first on the scene of any kind of accident. By their quick and professional response, they save lives and possessions and protect the environment while risking their health and their lives for others. Their self - sacrifice and willingness to help their fellow man were never questionable. We are aware that firefighting is not just a fire extinguisher. Firefighters help rescue in floods, in the face of the worst traffic accidents, in the protection and rescue of people and property in the event of natural disasters, accidents in running and standing waters, in the case of hazardous substances, and could also list them. This tells us that firefighters and firefighters are indispensable in a system of security and rescue forces in the face of natural and all other disasters. They are among those citizens whom we are all very proud of because they are most important to them, such as solidarity, assistance to fellow humans and cooperation. That is why we see firefighters as heroes, and among us they enjoy a special city and a high trust. People rely on them, and we don't care if they're professional or voluntary or they're professional in voluntary societies. Everyone's doing the same thing, everyone's risking the same. Compared to other countries, we are quite successful because we are developing a combination of volunteering and professionalism in this area. We have a wide range of voluntary fire companies that are almost professionally trained in different centres with the aim of acquiring adequate and professional knowledge. It is not surprising, therefore, that Slovenia was selected host to the fire-fighting Olympics this year, which will take place in Celje in the summer. For all of this, it is important that we cultivate firefighting all the time. This profession is obvious and, unfortunately, all too often overlooked in the drafting of the substantive legislation. While we are all well aware of how invaluable the role of firefighters was in providing collective security during the epidemic, the Government, with intervention laws to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic, has created even greater imbalances within the wider professional group of firefighters, since they did not provide for the payment of allowances for work in the risk situation for firefighters employed in the professional cores of voluntary firefighting units. The task of the Authority should be to remove such anomalies without delay and develop systemic solutions to significantly improve the status of Slovenian firefighters. I am pleased that I have contributed to this in the last two mandates myself. Let me remind you. At the end of the previous mandate, at my initiative and with the support of the Slovenian Fire Department, the Ministry of Health has amended the Regulations on the establishment of the health capability of operational firefighters. The maximum innovation is a medical certificate issued to an operative firefighter on the basis of a statement issued by his selected personal physician or specialist in medicine of work, transport and sport. This medical certificate replaces the medical examination to be carried out by the operational firefighters after the then applicable Regulation in the case of specialists in medicine of work, transport and sport every five years. At the end of the previous meeting of the National Assembly, I also proposed an amendment to the amendment to the Motor Vehicle Act, which was approved. The completed supplement shall be governed by the deadlines for carrying out technical inspections of vehicles used for the carriage of children's groups if these vehicles are owned by voluntary firefighting companies. Since the adoption of the law, technical checks shall be carried out only once a year and not every six months for these vehicles owned by firefighting companies. Let me also recall that, at the beginning of this term, we, together with my colleague Doblekar, as a first-signed Member, have prepared and submitted to the legislative procedure a proposal for a amendment to the Drivers Act, whereby firefighters with a category B examination and appropriate training at the Protection and Rescue Authority can also drive smaller fire trucks weighing more than 3.5 tonnes. This is the case for vehicles which, due to equipment, exceed these 3.5 tonnes, which required a category C1 driver’s licence. Such vehicles are located in more than 800 fire companies in Slovenia, so before the amendment was adopted there was a major problem in ensuring a sufficient number of drivers with a C1 driver’s licence, which is not available to most firefighters. Today, after several years of implementation of this revised law in practice, it has been shown that this change has significantly facilitated the provision of operational readiness and increased their efficiency and the speed of intervention. These changes, which have proved to be very useful, also apply to ambulance drivers and special ambulances for emergency medical care, police operating vehicles and civil protection intervention vehicles, mountain, cave and underwater rescue services. However, the last important innovation that we have achieved in the previous parliamentary group is the amendment of the Road Traffic Rules Act, which reduced requirements and thus facilitated the transport conditions of children's groups for firefighters, sports and other societies and institutions, as well as for larger families. Since the entry into force of that amendment, for example, firefighting companies for the transport of children with a van to a firefight need no more tachograph or special marking. The amendment of the legislation was also welcomed by the Association of Firefighters of Slovenia, where they pointed out that the previous regulation had been difficult to implement and, in practice, that the new rules would greatly facilitate work and reduce the costs for firefighters who have 40 000 young firefighters, pioneers and young people with whom they also carry out many transports, most at local level. In addition, they added that they would ensure that these children would be transported safely in the future. In our view, in addition to the comprehensive regulation of the field of firefighting, it is also crucial that the European funds now available to our country are effectively and in good time to upgrade our system of protection and rescue. These funds could be used mainly for the construction of new training centres or the acquisition of intervention vehicles, which would further improve preparedness, skills and working conditions for both professional and voluntary firefighters. To conclude, Members of our Group throughout these years have been committed to improving the situation in the field of firefighting as an important humanitarian activity in the public interest, including the improvement of the status and rights of both professional and voluntary firefighters. I am pleased that, with the above-mentioned measures and the approved legislative changes to improve the situation in the field of firefighting, I have contributed by myself and my colleagues. We support today's in-depth debate on the systemic regulation of the field of firefighting, and we believe that our common objective must be to ensure, as soon as possible, an appropriate regulatory and systemic legislative framework that will regulate the status of firefighters and establish a career path for professional firefighters and, on the other hand, ensure safe conditions for the work of firefighters and sufficient funding for their work, quality equipment and appropriate intervention vehicles. This would also represent a symbolic gesture and recognition of the sacrificial work of firefighters and firefighters, which is not comparable to any other profession due to the few specifics of the profession. Allow me to thank on this occasion all those who have devoted their lives to firefighting and have a desire to help people in distress with all their knowledge and power. I also want many successes for all young encouraging firefighters and firefighters who have courageously entered the firefighters to continue the path of the human mission, and strive to preserve the values that your predecessors have put under pressure. With a loud fire salute, there are many years of successful and safe operation. Help!
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Lenart will postpone the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. All present, especially the Secretary of Defense! The message of Mojca Žnidarič is 31. 1. 2022 at the 29th ordinary meeting of the National Assembly, the Minister of Defence, Matthew Tonin, raised an oral question concerning the system-wide regulation of the field of firefighting. The question covered a number of questions regarding the amendments to the Fire Protection Act and the Fire Protection Act, which were in the parliamentary procedure at the time. Among other things, she was interested in: how the proposed legislative changes will affect the regulation of the status of voluntary and professional firefighters; what changes are being made by the fire protection legislation; what are the new developments in the organisation of operational firefighting units in companies; whether the legislative proposals have been aligned with representative organisations in the field of firefighting, i.e. the Slovenian Union of Slovenia and the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters, and others. In his reply, the Minister of Defence, Matthew Tonin, stressed that Slovenian firefighters are a key protection and rescue system and that without them today we cannot imagine any serious intervention to help with natural or other disasters, so it is important that this system, this combination of volunteering and professionalism are constantly being nurtured. The Minister was further questioned and then requested a broader discussion on this important and complex subject in the National Assembly, in accordance with Rule 249 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that we are, in comparison with other European countries in the field of firefighting, above average success. We also agree that the subject of systemic regulation of the field of firefighting is important and also very difficult, so it is good to discuss it today. Firefighting is a humanitarian activity and a noble mission. The work of firefighters is responsible and also risky and requires good physical condition, health, and also courage for firefighters. In voluntary firefighter companies operating in the public interest, Slovenia has a thousand 299 fire brigades, with 35,000 firefighters registered, about 6,000 reserve operatives and 13,000 trainees. In total, more than 160,000 members, namely firefighters and firefighters, are included in voluntary firefighting companies. When I attended the All-Slovenian Fire Congress on Ptuj in May 2018, I actually learned their power and greatness. There were 5,000 firefighters in a bird sports stadium. And of course, the vast majority of the viewers of this passage did not remain indifferent. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the contribution of firefighting, as we know that firefighters are the largest and most operational force in the system of protection against natural and other disasters or in the field of protection and rescue in the country. Therefore, we have also embarked on this coalition in a systematic resolution of the area and in a time during the oral parliamentary issue that is the basis for today's debate, and we have already confirmed the amendments to the Fire Protection Act and the amendment of the Fire Protection Act. Therefore, we thank all those who have proposed changes in favour of firefighters and their fire brigades and societies and in the final stage for the well-being and greater security of citizens. Our firefighters also thank us for our support. 54 members voted in favour of the Fire Act and 52 members in favour of the Fire Protection Act. If I were a little snooze, my brother would go to the list, but that wouldn't be in the position of the delegation. With these amendments to the Firearms Act, we have enabled the further development of firefighting and increased coherence, rationality and efficiency in the implementation of operational tasks of firefighting. With amendments to the Fire Protection Act, we have established the conditions for financing standardised fire insurance for members of the fire organisation and standardised fire insurance for vehicles, equipment and facilities used by firefighting organisations in the performance of their tasks, whose financing was transferred to the country by means of the Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities from the municipalities. This government therefore understands the needs of firefighters and the importance of ensuring protection against fire, protection of property and the home of our citizens from all natural and other disasters. It is particularly important to realize that firefighters also save the lives of us and our citizens. It is likely that each time he remembers a traffic accident where the firefighters cut the vehicle open and thus helped the accidenter to receive medical care as soon as possible. It is right that we Members are always the first to be aware of their assistance, which is already important in peace and would also be irreplaceable in times of crisis or war. We are also aware that without adequate financial support there is no security, no fire or protection against other natural disasters and no defence security. Therefore, the necessary resources for all mentioned by this successful government, and with this minister, we also provide. With the support of the amendments to both laws, the Government, as a proponent, together with us, has achieved better operational working conditions for our fire brigades. We have also set up a number of areas of expertise in the public fire service, and we have also thoroughly updated the field of firefighting. There is also a serious dialogue between the Ministry of Defence and Trade Unions at this time to improve the social and economic situation and to regulate the working situation of professional firefighters. We are living in a turbulent environment that is changing rapidly, and we are changing as a society over time, as well as the needs for protection and rescue are changing all the time. The job of firefighters was no longer just to put out fires, but they had become increasingly different, more numerous and more comprehensive over the years, and this area also needed to be systematically regulated. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we express our support and respect for all firefighters for their courageous work and noble mission, and we are always looking for good solutions and support for changes that will ensure the quality work of firefighters and their organisations in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u145	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The debate is open to Members and Members. First he gets the word Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u146	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. What I want to do first is to personally thank the distinguished Minister for all that they have done at the Ministry of Defence to improve the status of the firefighter in actions and not in words, as it has been in the past. I am also a member of a voluntary fire company, and I have a lot of association with other firefighters, but these other firefighters are also members of other political parties. And despite the fact that they are members of other political parties, we are nosy when we begin to talk about what we have done for the firefighters. They sincerely say that as much as was done in this mandate, in the mandate of Matthew Tonin at the Ministry of Defence, not all governments have previously done so in the field of firefighting. You don't have to believe me, go to the field, ask firefighters, ask those who do this intensely not only in their free time, but also professionally. If someone makes a logical change, he is aware that the Minister of Defence has recently taken up a lot of time in Ukraine, that virtually his entire mandate has been devoted to crowning, solving problems concerning the crown. But regardless of what you're doing, you've put the fireman's status among the top priorities. I appreciate that you've been a firefighter yourself for 30 years now, that you've appointed a secretary of state, who is also a fireman himself. With this, you have already made clear at the beginning of your term of office what you want to do for firefighters. Why is that important? It's important because as a firefighter, you understand and then you save them. That seems very important to me. I am very grateful that you have been trying to improve the status of the firefighter all the time, but I would like to remind you of some things that have already been done in the past. One of the things that were very welcome in these times is certainly aid in the PKP7, where a number of companies, a thousand 300 companies, received financial assistance from 2 000 to 5 000 EUR after Slovenia, and the main companies received an additional thousand euro. You know, Minister, I'm a member of the Voluntary Fire Company Prekop-Ceplje-Stopnik from Vranski. This money's gonna come in handy for us. This year we get a fire truck, a new fire truck, because our service vehicle is already very old and practically not driving anymore. With this money, we will buy a new fire truck so that we are even better prepared to help citizens when needed. And I thank you very much for that, and I am very grateful to you. From €1.7 million to €2.4 million, funding for the co-financing of firefighting equipment and vehicles is increasing. As a volunteer firefighter, I understand very well what equipment means, what it means to have more money available to buy firepower. I'd like to point out the National Centre for Civil Protection. Last year, they signed an agreement with the mayor of Ljubljana on the construction of a national centre for civil protection, where all rescue services will be joined under one roof. It is not only firefighters, rescuers, lobsters, mountain rescue workers, divers and so on, everything will be coordinated with one point. In this context, three other sub-centres will be built, existing in Sežana will be updated, for flood safety in Murska Sobota and for stomachs and grips. I am grateful to the Minister for knowing how important it is for us firefighters to be able to act very well when intervention occurs. At the Ministry, they will provide appropriate equipment, funds and vehicles for regional, local intervention units in the event of weather-related accidents. I often say that we are well qualified in Slovenia. We have a lot of firefighters, as we've heard before, a lot of fire companies, we have good equipment. In the past, however, floods and other natural disasters that threaten us have been ignored. I am pleased that the Minister is aware of this and that we are now going to make this investment. I'm talking about 40 hydraulic-armed trucks and 160 specialized flood containers. The equipment will, of course, be distributed throughout Slovenia in view of the flood threat, because we want to ensure a rapid response system and accessibility of equipment in the event of a natural disaster in the event of a flood threat. I hope one such vehicle will also be in the Lower Savina Valley, where we have a very large flood threat. Finally, but we are finally regulating all insurance for volunteer firefighters. Two days ago, the Fire Protection Act was adopted, thus establishing a legal basis for regulating this area. At the same time, we have provided additional EUR 4 million to all municipalities in Slovenia to co-finance the purchase of firefighting equipment, because firefighters deserve it because firefighters and firefighters deserve it, not least because our citizens deserve it. And if, earlier than eight years ago, our predecessors were unable to slip together the Fire Act, our Minister, Matthew Tonin, did so within four months, within just four months we found agreement and passed the Fire Act. This also improves the fire extinguisher’s status, setting out more clearly what will happen when an accident occurs, the responsibility now covered by the congregation or the state. We also add veteran firefighters who will be able to perform operational tasks in firefighting companies after 65 years, of course if health and psychological conditions allow them to do so. As a result, the operational unit in the firefighting companies is still improving, and it is increasing. The fire extinguisher link of Slovenia is also legally defined as the competence of the training of voluntary firefighters. I often say that people understand politics when they hold onto their wallets. With the Income Act, which brings higher wages to all the people employed in our country, you will not believe, we have not forgotten the firefighters, and we also reward them. An increase in the general income relief for them is another thousand 500 euros. What does that mean in practice? This means that someone who is a 10-year-old operative will receive 650 euros a year in cash on his own account. You know, that's the way it works for firefighters, but it's not like they're taking pictures of them before the election. I'd like to put this in particular right now. This isn't about praise. This isn't about bragging here. All we're saying here is what we did. And here I have to get my hands on the words of Mr Pavšič, who said that we will be listening all this time to the various praises we have done. It's what we did, it's true. While you prefer to throw a rifle into the corn and now from the opposition criticise what is wrong. You had scissors and a canvas in your hands, you could work for firefighters as much as you wanted. One thing I've learned is that it's much easier to be in opposition and say what's wrong, and it's much harder to do. And New Slovenia has something to show for it. It's got to show what we've done in the field of firefighting. There's a lot of this stuff, and I'm grateful for all this. I would also like to say the facts about the lost truck, which was previously spoken of by Mr Pavšić, and here I very clearly state: there was not a single cent lost in the state budget. So the state budget was not damaged by a single cent. You know what? But he was injured in a bank hole for 5 billion, he was injured at Tesh 6 for half a billion, and so on. I don't hear much of you here, you don't talk about it, but you can, of course, speak populistally about this truck and you talk about it all the time, even through your Facebook Facebook Facebook Facebook Facebook Facebook Facebook profiles and elsewhere. The state budget here has not been damaged by a single cent and the type that has communicated with the Ministry of Labour, of course, judicial proceedings are ongoing and will most likely be closed. But I believe that this kind of truck comes to you just fine because you just don't have any arguments. You have nothing to say what you've done, and then you're pulsistically throwing out the word lost truck. And these are simple facts. Today’s session also clearly shows what someone has done for firefighters and what is not. Here again, I would like to point out that it is not a matter of self-pity now, we are simply citing what we have done. We've done a lot. I believe we could do more, but we've done a lot, and that's what we can see. But I would like to say one more thing, and that is likely to be observed by our viewers and viewers who are now monitoring this meeting. The meeting usually lasts all day, today the set, almost a set of opposition, has dropped out of the debate. It is practical to discuss only 10 people reported, of which six are from Nova Slovenije. So everyone's hiding somewhere, nobody's gonna talk about firefighters today, nobody's gonna talk about what we can do for firefighters today. There's practically nothing to say. If the sittings last all day, today will be a meeting, I don't know if it will last another hour, it will probably be much faster to finish, because this topic is not after year. If we were to discuss a lost truck today, I'm sure we'd be talking by 3:00 in the morning because we'd have something to say. Let me get this straight. Minister, I appreciate everything you've done good for firefighters and firefighters. I hope that we will be given another mandate and that we will continue at this pace in the future. Thank you very much. Help!
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! First of all, when I asked this question, or these questions last month, those laws that we passed last week were not yet adopted. These are amendments to the Fire Act, amendments to the Fire Protection Act and also to the Income Act. Although they had long been forecasting, they had not yet been accepted. Moreover, he actually blocked them — and thereby threatened their adoption — of the opposition law. When I heard that the candidate, i.e. the opposition, even in the State Council, said or admitted that he wanted only to block government law with his law, then I was even more concerned. My question has been honest and I really want to talk honestly about what we want to do good, even better for our firefighters, who certainly deserve to improve their status. So I am glad that these laws were now, and I will not list them again, adopted. Even in the Income Act, we helped them with this special tax relief. I am also pleased – because I have also checked on the ground because there were not all of these answers last time, and I also like to check things on the ground – that they say the representative of our fire liaison said and confirmed to me that the laws were actually in the vast majority or that everything was adopted in the vast majority. What little things are not, of course, just as every marriage cannot reconcile exactly everything. So there was nothing small, but in the vast majority it was really aligned with representative organisations. After I said that, I checked it myself. However, as a candidate for the question of the Member States, I will then come to the attention of you in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u149	Thank you very much. He asked the Minister of Mag for a word. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u150	Thank you very much. First of all, my sincere thanks also to the Member of Parliament for asking and showing interest in the subject of firefighting, because we can talk about these things today. But it was interesting to hear that. Some people hurt to the end that we're doing it. Somehow they can't bear what we've done. And when I listened to Ambassador Pavlovich, I don't know, I'm listening to a minute, two, three, time is passing and one specific criticism is not. Just stuffing one or the other. Okay, we're used to you throwing a rifle into corn once, these things hurt, but it's not our fault. By throwing your president's rifle into the corn, you gave us a chance. We took this opportunity and did good and great things for Slovenia. Now that he will not again, I don't know, Member Bandelli, I already know him, is of such character that perhaps because of his other activities he doesn't have time to sit and listen, maybe he hasn't read the law either, because there were some indications that I don't know these things that I'm not aware of. But you know, if you're making a marriage, then you're probably familiar with it. However, there are limitations on sent - out questions as to how much time you can talk and what you can say. That's why I'm going to comment on some of the things that have now been exposed. First. Mr. Pavšič always brings this lost van. You know, it's kind of a flimsy manipulation, but here's the thing. The state budget was not damaged with anything. The man who did this is now in court, and I believe he'll be locked up. And they picture it as if I lost it. But they don't tell the fact that this guy's been manipulating and making up on the phone all the time, trying to figure out how the van was supposed to go somewhere, where it wasn't. And I'm supposed to work even for a firm that was seriously involved in the delivery of the masks at the time, and we all honestly believed that this thing was real. So that we could be so intellectually honest, if I may say so, that you're not lying, you know. I didn't lose any vans. None. But it was about someone trying to cheat the country. But thank God that our institutions are working for us, he failed. Pika. That we've been fighting firefighting. Really? Where? Let me know. I must say that there is only one approval on all organs from the spoils to other things, the fire liaison, wherever I come from, that there has been a great deal in this mandate, that the things that have been coordinated over the years are now finally accepted and confirmed. So I also have to say and thank the Firefighters Association of Slovenia and the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters. Both associations have proved to be outstanding and all that we are saying now, without these two organisations and without you Members, who have supported these things in Parliament, would not be. In the first place, this is due to these two fire associations and to the Member States. I was just a tool to bring these things together and bring them here to Parliament. I don't know, Mr Pavšč, if you were ever at these meetings, where more than 100 firefighters are gathered across Slovenia, when these people who have been in the fire department for 30, 40 years say they never believed that they would wait for a time when a provision would also be adopted that those who work 10 years in firefighting have a special income relief, that they had only dreamed about these things and wrote on paper and never believed that it was possible, is now possible and is a great thing. No one believed in the past that it was possible to obtain European funds also for the protection and rescue system. Until I brought on my team the operative fireman of State Secretary Jakalin, who lives for firefighting and works in these spheres for a long time, and he simply laid our officials on the table and said: "Wait, you are convincing us that it is not possible to draw European funds for protection and rescue. Now tell us how this is possible, for example, in Poland, Hungary and Croatia. Since we have demonstrated with concrete examples that if they can do this in other countries in the same European Union, we can also work in Slovenia." Yes and again, for the first time in history, we have managed to have €70 million of European money in the future for the development of our system of protection and rescue, in particular for the development of firefighting. It's a big deal! So much money alone has never been available to the protection and rescue system in history, and there will be substantial progress. I speak in particular in terms of establishing specific centres that will enable firefighters to be trained realistically. Now we have one of those on Iga and he's very busy. When they presented to me the idea of what a flood training center would look like, it was illogical to me, but how can you train for floods, how can you do training? And they simply showed an example of a Swiss training centre where they have a particularly large swimming pool, especially built buildings in this pool, which they water or flush out, so that firefighters can train, what it looks like if the water is outside the door and enters the room or if it is in the space and out of the room penetrates in case the door opens. In short, fantastic things. And that is exactly the kind of center that will be set in Prekmurje, opposite the center of Expano. It's definitely a big deal. Mr Baković had the right debate and asked some questions that might not have been answered in the past. Why does the age for operative firefighters increase to 65? That's what the fire department wanted. This was the desire of the Firefighters Association of Slovenia, because there are a number of firefighters who are over 60 years old and are physically fit and who did not understand why they would now have some limitations. This was their request, however, by making it clear in the law that this has no effect on the retirement of professional firefighters. Professional firefighters who are in a working relationship will retire in accordance with the PPIZ, so there are no such changes here. Coordination with the Firefighters and the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters was excellent and therefore we have the Firefighters Act. We have coordinated with these two organisations, but we have not coordinated, and I admit that, with the trade firefighters' union. But systemic regulation of this matter is not a union matter. He fights and works to ensure that firefighters have the best working conditions possible, while systemic regulation of the field of firefighting is the responsibility of these two umbrella organisations. And I thank them, too, because, in order to reach this marriage, everyone had to compromise. Since there have been a number of conflicting views, I must say, in the very early stages of coordination between professional firefighters and volunteer firefighters. But where there is will, there is a way and we have successfully resolved these things. If I move on. The Fires Act was Mr Bandelli's question. I ask that you go to the marriage alone to read the main solutions of the law so that I don't read these things out here and imagine because I would waste my time needlessly. But it also says everything that we've worked out more precisely, what we've defined more precisely. It's all in there, and it's possible to read these things accurately. I would like to conclude at this point because there is likely to be any further misinformation then, and it will need to be commented on. Once again, I can say that we can be justifiably proud of the Slovenian firefighters that they have reached extraordinary standards, that this service is envied by a number of countries, that the approach, based primarily on volunteering, is the only right one, because it provides a broad base of people, while this volunteering is also based on the fact that these volunteers are highly qualified. Here, of course, it is also the duty of the state to help firefighters to be highly qualified by various forms of setting up and designing training centres or other things. And we'll keep doing that. We have done a lot in these two years with our collective strengths.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll start with a thank you. First of all, dear colleague Mojci Žnidarič, who asked this question of the Member State, which was placed in one of the real timeframes when we adopted the Income Act, which also talks about firefighters, about the system law, about the amendment of the Fire Protection Act and about the Fire Protection Act and, of course, about other acts under the law. If ever, this is the right time to do some kind of analysis of whether these marriage solutions are optimal or how they were seized and how to proceed. Because we have to go forward with the field of firefighting. We can't just stop here and get some rest. I continue to thank the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, personally Minister Matthew Tonin, who, together with his colleagues, coordinated the very important legislation I mentioned earlier, the whole marriage package. Of course, thanks are also given to the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue, the Fire Union of Slovenia and all those who have coordinated the Firearms Act in particular. And of course also to the Members and Members who have participated in the examination of all these laws. Not only to those who have approved this marriage package, but also to those who have cooperated, I repeat. And not last but most thanks to our firefighters and firefighters. It's amazing when you look at statistics and you see that there were almost 25,000 activations at the annual level last year. Twenty-five thousand. And that these activations had raised, activated, or intervened, such or otherwise, nearly 143 thousand firefighters. These are fantastic numbers that speak of a very important system. These are not just some societies, which some people, these are people who are qualified, whose verbal link “Help!” is not only a greeting, but also a command. Greetings and an order in one. You've talked a lot about numbers. I will not repeat them, but I say, as I have always been in the National Assembly, that Slovenian firefighting is in fact part of our Slovenian culture, part of our traditional Slovenian, if you want a European way of life. We're kind of world champions here. And what I'm most pleased about is, it's not that I remember my two grandfathers who were founding members of a voluntary firefighter society in the 20th century in my village, but that I see the youngest among the firefighters as well. And I see what this means to them that in some way means a status symbol to them, that they can be organised in one way or another within a voluntary firefighting society. We find these practically, thank God, in every village. Maybe just one sentence, local-patriot-coloured. Interestingly, in Prekmurje — of course, historians and those dealing with the history of firefighting — voluntary fire brigades or fire companies began to form massively when freedom came. So after 1919, when Prekmurje was liberated, and so you will find the years of the establishment of fire brigades and societies, voluntary societies there in 1920, 1921, our domestics say 1924 and so on. Moreover, at that time firefighting equipment began to be purchased, from today's perspective very primitive but effective. It was really very effective when I look at what architecture was like back then, there were houses with a straw roof, you know what that means about fires. Not to mention building firehouses. You may laugh at me, but I say that in my village the firehouse is the most beautiful in Slovenia. It was built by locals themselves in 1936, as reported by the then - day newspapers, the Kleklov newspaper. What I consider to be a tectonic shift in these two years is that we have started a long time ago and we are going to draw on European funds. It's like we didn't know that until now. It has already been said, 65, about 70 million, in fact, funds will be made available for such and other equipment. And notice, the equipment is certainly not enough, here we need to train teams who will also be able to use this equipment effectively in case of intervention. Colleagues and colleagues, I believe that I can share with all of you the view that the work is not finished, that we must monitor how this legislation has been adopted or how it is adopted, and that, of course, we are going forward decisively in the field of firefighting in the next term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! Firefighting is a point that Slovenia is expected to connect, in particular from a humanitarian perspective, including in terms of protection and rescue. This is what our community, as part of a community, our villages, our cities, our peoples, is supposed to connect us. I must say, I'm in pain of words, Comrade Pavšič, and there will probably be replicas. You were talking about some fraud. I don't know what a scam is, where someone sees a scam. It would be a scam to tell me about firefighters, how important they are, how urgently we need them — what happened in 2014, when we had our stomachs and strong floods — and then we would do nothing and not allow them anything. It's a scam. However, I must say that in all the PKPs we have adopted in the National Assembly, we have been very helpful to all voluntary firefighting companies, from the smallest to the largest. Because of the fact that it was not possible to bring out all the joys that were, I will say, financially those who help each society survive, to have modern equipment, because there were no other means – we have all already participated in the firelights and activated and helped – because it was not possible to carry out general assemblies, the Minister has allocated thousands of euros to the smallest firefighter society and then onward. This was the most urgent assistance to voluntary firefighting companies in times of crisis. Of course, the picture is different now, because we simply recognize ourselves on what we have been saying all the time — the status of an operative firefighter needs to be regulated. And now it's settled. Firefighters are important. Here, I cannot help but mention Anžet Albrecht of Logatz, who was also able to encourage, with the help of the New Slovenia Group of Members and all Members, that we have decided that the middle lane on the highway is now the belt that must remain empty so that fire and rescue vehicles can intervene. He personally engaged and was also recognized as the person of the year of the Inland Sea Program or the On or Him event. I was proud of him, and I reached into his hand, even here in the National Assembly. Firefighters are the ones that connect. Having given them a special relief for operational firefighters, a thousand 500 euros a year, which will bring about, as the minister said, between €600 and €700 a year, is between €60 and €70 a month at pay, it seems to me that it is the step that we can reward and say thank you for being ready for every rescue, for every intervention, because you are here to help people. And it's only right for you to admit it. Firefighters have been working on the humanitarian drive for years, and it is only right that they once, and this is the time now, to acknowledge and thank them by doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The word is Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Today we talk about truly wonderful people who are willing to help everyone in distress. We often say that an accident never rests. Just as an accident never rests, firefighters never rest when there is a need to help. Today, I welcome this debate, and at the same time thank my fellow Member, Mojci Žnidarič, that she has put this question into question, because firefighters, volunteer firefighters should certainly be talked about more than once. And not only firefighters, we should talk about all services or voluntary civil protection organisations. Let me just mention that voluntary organisations working in the field of civil protection, such as firefighters, mountain rescuers, lobsters, rescue dog guides, are essentially refugees in Europe. They carry out the voluntary work of the public service. They're the ones who go help in their free time, many times for their money. We have to say thank you here many times. Do we ever wonder how their families feel when they leave in the middle of the night? Just yesterday, a terrible accident occurred in my hometown, and the barn burned down. 90 firefighters rushed to help, left their jobs at home, at work, so they went to help unselfishly. Here I have to thank this reference that he was listening to such organisations. That I will not repeat myself because it has been repeated many times today that we have changed everything – yes, we have done a great deal, but at the same time we could say too little. But this government has had a hearing for all these organizations. I believe that even if all things are not yet arranged, we all have them in mind that they need to be regulated in the future. Not just in the field of operational firefighters. Perhaps only in the case of income relief, which I also very much welcome, for operational firefighters, I hope that the operational status will not be determined solely by firefighters, as mountain rescuers, including rescuers and others who fall under civil protection, are entitled to this supplement. I therefore appeal here to the Minister to pay attention and listen to smaller organisations that are not so large that they can determine their own operationalities equally. Nor should we forget, I have not heard of this, that we have also allowed voluntary firefighters a covidal supplement to which volunteer firefighters were entitled at the time of the covida, who were then called for intervention. And if the memory doesn't deceive me, then the minister and I have been making an amendment for the last minute to actually make it possible for them. Much work has been done, and we must not forget that we have also abolished the tax on motor vehicles for new vehicles that these organisations will be able to buy. In fact, we've done a lot for firefighters and organizations. And that's because we have hearing, listening to these organizations and listening to them. I believe there's much we can do for them. Those who feel that we have not done well for them have had many times, but they have had 30 years to prove that they would do something for them, and unfortunately to this day they have only spoken many times, but they have not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The word is Tadej Shuštar Zalar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. I am pleased that today we have a debate in the National Assembly on firefighting and our professional and voluntary firefighters. I am even more pleased that they belong to the resort covered by Nova Slovenija and the President of New Slovenia, Matthew Tonin, who is of course an active firefighter and well knows the situation in the field of firefighting and their problems. The firefighters are very important to the Slovenians. As a member of the Committee on Culture, I can say that this is also very expressed in Slovenian culture, since 36 churches in Slovenia are dedicated to St. To Florian, who is the protector of firefighters. For chapels dedicated to St. Florian, I'm afraid I don't have the data, but I'm sure there's five of them. In 2022, co-financing of the purchase of firewoods from 2014 onwards will continue from the fire fund provided for for a wider purpose. The aim of co-financing is to ensure adequate preparedness of firefighting units in urban centres for successful and safe firefighting and rescue of people and their property in higher buildings, whose height still allows rescue and extinguishing. The basis for co-financing is a risk assessment and a plan for protection and rescue in local communities. However, new fire-fighting vehicles suitable for fire-fighting and altitude resolution are co-financed. The Fire Tax Committee has concluded that the amount of fire-fighting vehicles co-financing will increase from EUR 500 000 in 2022 to EUR 600 000. In 2021, there were no major fires in the natural environment in Slovenia, but the deployment of two firefighter missions within the framework of the temporary composition of civil protection to an international mission, to put out fires in the natural environment to Northern Macedonia. Firefighters and members of civil protection who carried out management and logistical support tasks have done their job at a high professional level and have promoted the reputation of Slovenian firefighters in an international environment. Currently, all over Slovenia, except in areas where there is still snow, is declared a danger of fires in nature. I believe our firefighters are always ready when the call comes to help save lives, property, and even nature. I would like to thank all firefighters and firefighters who sacrifice themselves for their profession and provide us with security in the event of natural and other disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Firefighters are the ones we think about first when we need help. Both voluntary firefighters and professional firefighters are well-trained, organised and technically equipped in Slovenia. We often wonder if, like the military, they really need such good equipment. Of course it is, but it's better to be used as few times as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Now he has the word Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Not that they need the same good, but they need better equipment than the military. I'm sure we all agree on that. And rising from 500 thousand to 600 thousand euros, I don't know if you know, it's not enough for a single truck with a high ladder. I'll tell you from my own experience. That's exactly what happened, what I expected. The whole series, the flood, the beach of bragging among client colleagues. I'm glad you guys love each other so much and you're backing up, great. But you, Mr. Tonin, don't listen well or you don't hear what we tell you. The first sentence I said to you today, I'll tell you, and you manipulated him, threw him in your way, in your manner. Now listen well: “Today the present minister recently said that the truck and I were only a victim of an attempt at fraud.” Where's the obvious you lost him? [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, no. Where's the receipt?Oh, my God! You're the one who told me to tell you things that you didn't check out. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u163	Look, please, we're having a discussion. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u164	Wait a minute, Mr. Tanko, that's what Mr. Tonin said. If he can, then I can answer that too. [[advertising from the hall]] No, it's not fair of you, and I expect an apology because you lost it, I haven't said it today or ever before. But I did say what you said on television publicly. And yes, I agree, the state budget has not been damaged by a single cent. But trust was damaged. You flew out with a desire for, I don't know, fame, I don't know what. “But we have made something now.” You didn't, because he was never there. You jumped first, and then you said hop, which is what already [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u165	My colleague, I suggest you go to a debate on firefighting, not other matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u166	Of course, trucks can also be fire trucks. If you'd let me go, you could have developed [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u167	We know what we're talking about, and I suggest you go to the matter submitted.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u168	If you let that happen to the Minister, then you have to let me.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u169	I'm warning you, I'm going to stop this.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u170	No, the minister started it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u171	You're the one who started with Koleg Pavšič, and you're not going to argue with me. [[…]] You can discuss, I'm holding a meeting and I'll tell you to discuss it in accordance with the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u172	I'm not embalming. All I can do is explain myself. If they'd left me, I'd have moved on.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u173	I'll leave you to it, but don't joke.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u174	I'm not kidding.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u175	Can you stop this discussion with me?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u176	What was the problem now, can I continue or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u177	We are discussing what has been submitted and about the system regime in the field of firefighting. We'll talk about the others some other time. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u178	Another thing that needs to be very explicit, and here I also expect you, Minister, to respond to the very vile statement of the proponent, or one that has raised today's question that the opposition has blocked your so-called Systemic Fire Act by means of a bill. That wasn't true. We have already explained this at a meeting of the Commission on the State Council, and we have explained this to the Defence Committee, where you were not present, probably not the colleague. If that were true, then on this committee, which we have concluded, and also on the plenary session, we could not consider this law at all, because our third treatment was only concluded in the previous plenary. I expect you to finally explain that it was not an attempt to block or block, but the incompetence of your lawyers. But as for the law itself, which you have warned so many times today. My friend Reberšek gave me a wonderful point. I will quote: "If they have not failed the law policy in 20 years before, this has succeeded Minister Tonin in only four months." It's a literal quote. Yeah, you've managed to screw him up in four months, and I'll prove it to you. If you look at the other side of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, because we cannot reach the opinion of the Government's legislative service – I really want to know which lawyer dropped it through – I quote: “Explanation of articles does not help you understand the text in most cases, because it does not explain the purpose of the amendments, explains several times about the proposed solutions is missing, but sometimes in breach of the legal provisions, so that the introductory assessment of the proposed solutions is already difficult.” Now, the most interesting thing is: “It is most unusual that the explanation also contains indications of changes that are not in the bill, which indicates a lack of careful (continuous) preparation and review of the bill.” This is an element of the assessment that the reasoning is not inconsistent with Article 115 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Both the legislature and the Parliament have received a proposal for a law, which, of course, has been adopted by this Parliament in uncritically with your support. And let me put it again, we didn't object to the law, but the slempy went through. You said yourself today, Minister, that if you're making a marriage, you know him very well. In view of this, we should be very blushing right now, because this means that you have given away a product that someone has not even finally examined but has confused out matters that have remained in it after the changes. So much about knowing about matter when you come to the committee, and you haven't been on any committee, you've been replaced by your secretaries by directors, which is perfectly normal and in line with the rules of procedure. We could have dealt with firefighting before, but don't tell me, please, about the intentions. The EUR 230 000 contract with the MORS should not be paid by the MORS for the construction of a fire rescue centre in Postojna. When you came, you stopped it. We had to deal with the matter twice in this House, that you have carried out the issue for the poor EUR 230 000. So don't tell me, please, about the intentions and how you'll give everything for the firefighters because it's not true. And this constant conjecture, I'm just gonna say lying, is wrong. It's not ethical, it's not moral, it's not right! March 15 – Did you monitor the media? They got you on a whole series of lies. From your department. Can I read it to you? [[advertising from the hall]] I'd love to. On March 15th, political recruitment according to the principle of New Slovenia, your denial, okay, for Dars might even agree, and then list: Elektro Ljubljana, Elektro Maribor, GE-I, HSE, SODO, Borzen, Post office Slovenia, Talum, AVP. And you have nothing to do with it. 16, just a day later, more people in the Slovenian Army will put you back on the line. Then we'd better get back to the firefighters. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I will then bring you the articles, this is not today's theme that it will not be the President again or that the President has now arrived, it will probably not jump on me as quickly as the former Vice-President. That you have increased the coordination of firefighting in Slovenia – no, you have caused dissension. Trade unions are not a representative organization for you to coordinate the Firearms Act. I don't know why all the governments have coordinated with them so far. You came and said no. Now, not only have you not cooperated with them, but even all the already harmonised content in this law have been erased from this draft just because of this — why? Because they're union representatives? We had two different sides on the board here. On the one hand we had the Fire and Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters, on the other hand the Trade Fire Union and the Association of Municipal Communities, which opposed the law. So the two umbrella organisations are in favour of not letting them make one more key point: whether they support every single article in the law. On the other hand, there are two umbrella organisations against it. Those who work and those who have to organize by law. We know, Mr. Minister, that firefighting is a compulsory local public service is not a public service. And when roof law changes, it is also important to be very careful about the autonomy of local self-government. And that's what the Legal and Legal Service warns you about, but it didn't stop you either. Such a marriage goes awry in four months — yes. In fact, we can say nothing but victory to this marriage. And that's how it's done for firefighters, so you can hit your chest again tomorrow. That's how it's done before the election. First, the opposition is accused of blocking the law by doing what is right – I will return to this story – and then removing disruptive elements such as trade unions and the Association of Municipal Communities from the process of harmonising the law. It's such a very simple and naive approach, but don't then tell me how everyone supports it. They don't support him! And it's not true that everyone doesn't support him. That's why I didn't personally object to the law, but far from supporting it, because it's April 24th and April 24th, the opportunity to fix this victory. But so that everyone will be involved. Why did I mention earlier the evidence of the positional blockade of this law? You know what I'm talking about, these fabulous additions to work in a risky situation to employed firefighters in voluntary firefighting companies. What was that for, Mr. Secretary? In September, they would accept this issue without a large pump and the matter would be resolved – but no. According to your opinion, because this comes from the opposition, this law is unnecessary because you are preparing your solution, preparing a system law, preparing what else is not necessary. Okay, let's file it again. Same reasons again. Then you come with the so-called PKP10 and in it – what? Yes, precisely this identical solution, which you have twice rejected, is unnecessary. By also spoiling it and again breaking up in one of the professional groups themselves. We've already explained to you what the problem is, and I hope that someone has already heard and done something in this direction. Because you added another article to the PKP10. Do you know which one or one indent in there? That all those who have received supplements to work in risky situations are exempt from all duties and taxes after the PKP10. Which is great and good, and I welcome it. But you know what the problem is? Since, in PKP7, these exemptions have not been introduced for professional firefighters who were already eligible for these supplements. And how are you going to solve this mess now? I advise you to go straight to the Finance Minister's colleague and return this difference to the professional firefighters who got paid before the PKP10. That they can be equal and that they will be equally paid for identical work. You have not looked so far as not to cause any discrimination within a single professional group. Now tell me this was thought-out right. You can't say that. Because you jumped again, and then you said hop. The last thing that should be happening right now is these discussions here because there is no bad word or from one side or the other against the firefighter. It's not. No, we all respect them, honestly, deeply. But that attitude and your a priori excluding someone who has so far been in these procedures of law harmonisation, this is what causes discord, not debate in this national council. So I can tell you in confidence that you are personally responsible for this conflict. Because while you had a press conference with the firefighters' association and a professional firefighters' association, they also had a press conference in the union and said, no, the law wasn't in line with everyone, but only with those you said would be in line. It's not what you do, Minister. In 150 years it has not been possible to fight firefighters – and I hope it will not now – neither Austria-Hungarian nor Italy, nor Yugoslavia, but now I will make three picks. [[…]] It's not right. I don't know. I've got enough time. I can talk for ten more minutes. Since you're always in such a hurry, you avoid disturbing elements. In this case, they were trade unions, and in this case this association of city halls would probably have been found. And you haven't tried or tried to take one step further but to establish a dialogue and at least talk about how to save the marriage. Since collective bargaining is ongoing, this is not a question, but the collective agreement has nothing to do with the Fires Act. Except for setting up their work in some sort of roofing sense. The collective agreement regulates other matters, but here experts from work have had – you cannot say that employed firefighters, professional firefighters must not participate in the drafting of a system-wide roof law simply because they are a union. Is that a reason? They can also have professional concerns. Not the ones in the collective agreement, but the substantive concerns. Since this is about raising your age, it's not just a matter of this law. Now imagine what the difference is, let me know what the difference is between a volunteer active firefighter and a professional active firefighter, except that one is paid and the other is not. A volunteer active firefighter will now be able to do this, of course if he has all the vocational education, medical examination and so on, his work, even when he is older and professional. These are questions to be answered, I am not saying that one is right or the other is wrong. But the same work can only be done within a different status, identical work. Because an active firefighter in a voluntary society also responds to interventions. If he's busy, then at all. This is just one of the issues that they have raised in all these debates that you haven't been in. One very interesting thing is that you have introduced a profitable activity for firefighting companies, which are also engaged in humanitarian activities. These two are mutually exclusive. How are companies going to report profitable activities on Furs now? Because if it is a gainful activity, it is necessary to exempt taxes. These are all the things you left open and let anyone deal with them. No! No! In the end, they'll all go to the presidents of society, to the secretaries of society, because you were in a hurry! Then this is where your secretary lied. The Information Officer drew attention to very serious doubts about the establishment of some new records, and the Secretary strongly agreed that this was in line with the Information Officer, which was already in November. Then we are looking at the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which points out with an identical sentence to the same problem – that there is no justification for additional records. So it wasn't harmonised or you sent the wrong law to Parliament, the wrong version. Because no one seems to have even read it before he came to Parliament. A really professional attitude, not just to Parliament, to the people for whom we have written or dealt with this law. I know you'll find now, because you're a great pianist, a lot of reasons why I'm wrong, how I've misunderstood everything, or you'll probably tell me how I've even deliberately deceived myself. [[advertising from the hall]] No, we'll hear about that. There's only one difference, you know, Mr Tonin – I'm listening, and you're not.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Alexander Reberšek has the replica. [[advertising from the hall]] Right after the replica, you get your word, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u180	Thank you very much. All the words are completely superfluous. Mr Pavšič just presented his position, who voted against the higher salaries of all operational firefighters and firefighters last Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u181	There's a minister's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u182	Ambassador Pavšič, I admit that you are extremely good at rhetoric and that you know how to say things well. I feel sorry for you. Have mercy on me, for this bitterness will bury you. Being bitter makes it hard to do something good. Instead of taking advantage of this debate today, if not all, in order to praise at least your local firefighters, you have some negative energy coming out of you, what is wrong, what everything should be. I think it'll be easier for you to live. Even after April 24th, the sun will still shine. The gun was thrown into the corn and there's nothing here. From here on out, we're gonna have to move on and there's no point in crying old mistakes. Yes, everyone has made a mistake in life and must live with it in one way or another. Now for your questions. You know, you see your bitterness here because you don't even try to explain things the way they are, but you deliberately put some doubts inside, in the current time of Russian action, I'd say it's a hybrid act. You're deliberately confusing. If we continue to discuss what this means for volunteers and what it means for professional firefighters, this limit is 65 years and so on. The first thing we need to know is that the vast majority of professional firefighters are also voluntary firefighters in their local societies. That's one. And that we work hard together in the system not to make differences between professional and voluntary firefighters. Under this Firearms Act, which is good, by the way. You may criticise him as well, but we have written assurances from the Firefighters Association of Slovenia and the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters that they support the law. After the adoption of this law, the two presidents of the two organisations thanked me and told me that this was a historic development. That's not what I said. That's what they said. You can ask them. I will always support the fact that we must not distinguish here between professional and voluntary, that they are all one and that when intervention comes, they all work in accordance with the same standards. That is also why we have such quality training for professional firefighters. About those 65 years. Professional firefighters may retire in accordance with the rules applicable to all working relationships when they have reached the age of 40 years. It is also the case that professional firefighters will be subject to the same definition as all other employees, which, of course, does not prevent them from doing anything after they retire as professional firefighters to work as operatives in their voluntary firefighting companies until the age of 65. That's their business. In the case of volunteer firefighters, however, this limit of 65 years was put to the will of volunteer firefighters because, I said, there are many of them physically exceptional fit and they want to continue to work and help. Then there's one more thing that shows your hybrid activity. The law defines, for example, what is the operational task of firefighting, where it clearly states that those tasks performed by firefighting organisations as a public fire service and are in line with the fundamental principle of firefighting as humanitarian activities free of charge. We've written this down in the law that someone won't remember tomorrow, but they're going to start charging for shutting down because it's a public fire department. That's one thing. On the other hand, we have also written down in the law that other firefighting tasks can be carried out and thus create a legal basis for the performance of these tasks, which must be done under precisely defined conditions and restrictions laid down by other sectoral laws for these activities. Let's say you're going to imagine more plastic, maintenance or repair some fire extinguishers, and that's some kind of profitable thing that firefighters can do to fill their budgets. It doesn't make sense for me to continue reading these provisions of this law to you because you know exactly what it says, what it is intended for, but on purpose you propose or explain them in a way that spreads some mistrust or some doubt, how everything is wrong and what a disaster is. And then there's the professional firefighters. Our interlocutors are, of course, from the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters and this special status of representativeness we have now written in this new Act on Firearms. But the union is concerned about the status, the position of the workers. I don't deny them anything here, I don't deny them anything, I recognize their status, but I don't allow union leaders like Mr. Schwarc to go to the trade union this morning, and politics to organize anti-government meetings, to support one political option, and to do some kind of political circus out of union work. I'm not gonna let that happen. And I said that I will not meet with Mr Schwartz's politician, because I don't need it, or I will when he sits here in Parliament. I have no problem with the other union representatives. And let me tell you again, because you tell me what was not done, a special strike agreement was signed in early 2018 and then – which government was already in 2018 and by the time the rifle was thrown into maize 2020? Which one? I think it was the government led by your party president. Then why didn't you solve the problem with professional firefighters, you who know everything? I'm asking. Then I took over my duties, and all of a sudden, Schwarc's politics became active, started organizing protests, and everything was wrong. Before things were done for three years, everything was great, and I didn't jump for the first time when he said hop, but it was all wrong. But okay, I'm not angry, and I went through it and we negotiated. For your information, we have had – wait to see – huge negotiations, 21 different meetings. 21 times our negotiating group met with Mr. Schwartz. And these negotiating groups lasted five, six, sometimes several hours. 21 times, figure out how many hours it's all together. Of the 49 articles, we have harmonised all but three articles we have not yet harmonised, which was left open by the Schwarc policy just in case for me not to finish this story, but will always be able to speak, see, negotiate or not agree. However, the negotiations on Article 43 are not yet concluded on annual leave, because there are differences. Larger fire brigades have more of these vacations, less of them, and some compromise needs to be found so that no one gets hurt. Then there is Article 46, which tells us how work will be done with them at the holidays, and Article 60, with regard to the insurance of firefighters. But we have closed everything else, Ambassador Pavšič. With all this crowding, how we do not negotiate, how there is no union dialogue and so on. So you can hardly read these things to me. It is clear, however, that I will not allow myself to blackmail a politician named Schwartz. There's no problem, and I'll make it clear. For everyone else, the door is open and we can agree without any major problems. And I think that if there were no Schwartz policy in the negotiations, we would have concluded those negotiations a long time ago and would have benefited mainly professional firefighters because things are more or less appropriate. They'd benefit more. And because Schwarc's policy excuses his union work, we're just right where we are. But no problem, we will sit for another hundred hours, if necessary, because the dialogue will continue. But it takes two for each deal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Reploco has Mr. Pavšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u184	You see, Mr. Tonin, how well you turn your words and then you accuse me of the same thing. Initially, I have pointed out that it is not my problem, my problem or the problem of Parliament, that older firefighters can also perform active firefighter service, but that it is a matter of coordination. But what you've just finished elaborating in the end, but it's terrible for me, I'm sorry. If the Vice-President of the Government, the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, dares to say things, I will not talk to politics, it is a complete egotrip. And you're making me feel bitter. So you don't mind?Oh, my God! You're not going to talk to a union because of one man, because you resent him for having a different political attitude than you! Where did we come from? Who are you?Oh, my God! Letters of support from the Firefighters Association of Slovenia. The President of the Fire Association of Slovenia – in which party? We have also heard of deception before: the possibility of a trade union of professional firefighters within the association. No, you just legalized him and made him mandatory. And that's also controversial. “The law is good.” It's not! Law enforcement on 16 pages says it's not good! On 16 pages. It is in conflict, and I will quickly count, with the Society Act, with the Law on Local Self-Government, with the Labour Relations Act, with the Law on Public Servants, the Law on Fire Protection, the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents. Not to mention potential constitutional disagreements. The law is good for you. I've read to you what they wrote before. “Explanation also contains indications of changes that are not contained in the bill.” You've given yourself the slempard, and you're making sure she's good for it now! This is that the firefighters are very kind to me and to commend them – I will not praise them here, in this place, but I will go to them personally, as I do several times. Your own thanks go under the table, and you're just proving it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u186	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. In the last few days, we have been making good decisions in this national assembly for weeks. As has already been heard, there were three laws that touched the work and, of course, better conditions for firefighters. These are the Fire Protection Act, then the Fire Protection Act and, of course, the Income Act, which has somehow contributed to all the people in this country who are working to have a little more in the account at the end of the year and to the firefighters in particular the tax relief of thousands of 500 euros. We also have something to show in this mandate, so I must say that in these matters only common sense prevailed and we had a covered majority. It was voted, as we have already heard twice today, once with 54 votes, once with 52 votes. These are the fire and fire laws. Now I also have to touch the fact that some colleagues, even here today, have mentioned themselves that they have squeezed perhaps for shame or some other reason, fear of criticism of this cross or quorum, or as we say, I abstained. If we know that we have a letter here, an appeal from the Firefighters Association of Slovenia, support the law, a roof organization under which we said that there were about 160,000 members and members from firefighters and active firefighters, then we need to know that this was not something written overnight and that nothing was wrong. You can't believe I'm talking about the Income Act, and I'm saying that someone is unhappening to their people for those few euros or a few hundred euros more at the end of the year, and because of this law, they don't support them. Then I feel the same way that those who do not support such proposals as the Fire Protection Act and the Fire Protection Act — in fact, you must be very greedy not to support it. I have to say, if firefighters were as greedy as those who didn't support it, they'd be driving to the scene of the accident or fire for four to five hours, so it would be a hell of a time. One more time. Already in the previous week, when I read the Opinion on the Fires Act and after the vote, when it was adopted, I made my call in my constituency at the General Assembly of the Fires Society. I have to say, there was a good, really good atmosphere for the adoption of this law. So I say, we felt connected and we felt useful. This is bilateral – what am I going to say? – Pleasure is also what makes it seem worth being a Member. This mission of ours, which some would like to show with the help of journalists, I don't know why, even some of us here today would like to show it as if I didn't know what, it's not worth anything. But I am not given to understand why a man, a messenger, would spit in his bowl. We've never been taught that in a farmer's environment. Sometimes we just have to walk together. But it is true that there are different views, and now one of the opposition Members tells you why you did so, it was not fair, there was no agreement with all stakeholders, the other at the same moment, how you will now cover it, because you are actually spending huge millions for the military. No, he's not spending huge millions on the military, he's wasting the necessary resources on the military and for the defense of the state, for our own safety. Just as our soldiers must be in comparable equipment and in comparable vehicles, our firefighters must be in comparable protective equipment and in comparable modern vehicles in order to actually save us. Because otherwise, we would have come too late for an accident that happened to us. If you don't break the eggs, you can't burn the pancakes in any way, and for that reason this government and the Ministry of Defence, as well as the Defence Committee, where I am a member, are working and laying the groundwork for providing sufficient resources for firefighters and for the security of the state to work well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Reploco has Mr. Pavšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u188	Apparently, my colleague doesn't understand what I'm saying or doesn't know what we're talking about. We are not talking about firepower today, we are talking about firefighting in general today. Firearms are provided more or less by municipalities, most depending on the mayors' hearing, by listening to local self-government. Some are fortunate enough to listen to this, but some do not. And, Mr Tonin, you haven't answered two key questions. Were those 230 thousand euros completely for your egotrip? I'm sure you don't have to answer that now. What will you do with false taxation before the PKP10?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u189	My friend Pashov, this goes beyond the replica, so I'm gonna stop you here.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u190	I agree, Vice President. I'm gonna hang up right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u191	Thank you. Now we've exhausted the list of discussers. Would you like to take the floor at the conclusion of the debate, both the speaker and the Minister? [[Yeah.]] First of all, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u192	So there wouldn't be another misunderstanding. With Schwartz's policy, when he abuses the fire syndicate, I'm not ready to talk because he's not looking for a solution, but he's looking for a conflict with me, and that's how he's hurting a professional firefighter. I want to get rid of these things, which is why I don't want to talk to him. But when he is elected as a Member in Parliament and when he is elected, then I will be forced to talk as with every politician, even though I do not agree with him. With regard to EUR 230 000 for Postojna, it was only a matter of meeting each other's obligations. Since the municipality of Postojna did not fulfil its obligations to the Ministry of Defence, we temporarily retained it. That was the main point. But for another thing, there's no time left, and I hope there's still time to share.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Given the time remaining in the debate, there will certainly be a sharing of time. Before that, I am asking whether the proposer wants a final word. [[Yeah.]] Here you go, Mrs. Moica Znidaric.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. As the minister said, and everyone else, we can be truly proud of our firefighters. Every word that has been uttered today or ever before to thank the firefighters is certainly welcome, if not necessary. Everything we have done today has been heard much, and we have already done in this mandate, and everything we will do to improve the situation of firefighters is more than necessary and welcome, and they actually deserve it. More than that, they do their work voluntarily, self - sacrificingly, using their hours and hours of volunteer work to help people, people, and of course there is no way to pay for it. My personal thanks, as well as thanks from the Group of Ambassadors, specifically to all firefighters and firefighters for their unselfish help. Without you, firefighters and firefighters, we can no longer imagine our lives at these difficult times in the event of accidents, and therefore we respect and appreciate you immensely. However, since Mr Horvat mentioned in the debate earlier that they have the most beautiful firehouse, I would only take this opportunity and say that we have the most beautiful fire museum in Miklavž near Ormož, very rich, small, not like that general All-Slovenian, but a small, very rich and invited to visit us in Miklavž near Ormož. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u195	Thank you very much for this debate. As it is said, you have received the floor of all the panellists, but there is still time for discussion. I therefore ask whether you wish to discuss this further on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I see that it is an interest, so I also warn Mr Minister and the proposer that they must also apply to the debate with the microphone switch. Now I'm opening the application. Please sign in. We have three reported discussers. The first is Mr Robert Pavšič, followed by Mr Andrej Chernigoj and then as the last Minister. Everyone's got five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Madam President. I left a few things behind on purpose before, and I will now mention them because my colleagues were putting them out in the debate. How you spent more time at war in Ukraine than crowns, but apparently you also had enough time in between for all personnel interventions outside the Morse system. But it doesn't matter anyway because it's not true. I can't get past this. [[advertising from the hall]] It's true, it is. You know, being a minister is an institution, being a unionist or a union secretary is also an institution. You really reject conversations and coordination because of your egotrip. Not only do you reject them, I believe that what has already been harmonised since 2019 has fallen out of the law. Right now, I'm asking you to answer some very specific questions. Not that Postojna did not carry out her duties, Morse did not carry them out. And you know where else you wanted to plant pollen in the bicycles and even with respect to the military stadium, the leases were extended. Due to the sobriety of the leader of your delegation, we have managed to resolve this matter through the media, but this is slowly enough, you know, Mr Tonin. This is evidence that you are in fact – you have been affected by a higher disease, or how? [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, it's a topic, it's the minister's attitude to the security mechanisms of this country, to the people, it's a topic. It's not the subject of my health, I'll always be so passionate when I defend my views, if this is wrong, it's just wrong. If I get a stroke, I'm gonna get a stroke, but that's not your problem, that's my problem. You don't have to worry about me. Come on, give me a very precise answer to how you're going to solve this, I'm not going to say tax misunderstandings, I'm going to say tax fraud, I'm going to say tax fraud that you've caused by your jumping without thinking about it. That's essential. So that we don't have to file a special law again, which then won't be necessary for you, and then we'll argue for six months, and then you'll adopt a solution that's actually the only logical thing to do, you'll make a copy of what the opposition is proposing. And the explanation of this – I asked you earlier, but it seems you can't even do that – that the opposition has blocked your fire laws. Because there's too much of that, you know. That's not how it works. Even because of your own actions, you denied this statement of your own. But that one can take that step and admit his mistake, and that's the hardest thing in the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Just to clarify. The evidence of a higher disease is equal to the evidence of bitterness, which is why, Mr Minister, I have now not scolded my colleague Pavšić in this implementation. Mr Andrej Chernigoj has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u198	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The task of firefighters, societies are not only to put out and rescue fires, but people in firefighters have also found social support and solidarity and unselfish assistance in the event of any accident. Through fire companies, members show their commitment to the Slovenian people and strengthen the existence of this consciousness. At this point, I am pleased that their unselfishness goes beyond Slovenian borders. Here I would like to thank all the companies, including the Municipality of Ilirska Bistrica, who have jumped to the aid of Northern Macedonia, and in particular I would like to thank the voluntary firefighting companies Ilirska Bistrica, Vrbovo, Knezak and Podgrad. Once again, thank you for your unselfish act. As Vice-President of the Defence Committee, I can say that the current government has done much for firefighters. But I must also say that today's debate, at least some, has exceeded the framework of good taste. These late onsets, including the mention of interpolation, without content, a lot of negativity – how many times have we seen this and seen where it leads. Nor does coastal passion justify intolerance and resentment and the negativeism we witnessed a little earlier. I'm never going to ad persona, but that's enough slow enough and you have to say bob beans. The swan singing of a fellow member from LMŠ, colleague Pavšič, who had the President of the Government in his party, was in the coalition, but, we must stress this, he did nothing for the birthplace Postojno, except for the rest of Slovenia. To make the irony even more ironic, colleague Pavšič can be commended, and here we also allow and leave him only with the achievements of this government. With one call from the Prime Minister, your Prime Minister, the fire department could be settled and the matter resolved. But this problem has only been solved under this government. Even firemen's accessories and all that. In his opinion, he said a word of praise, I felt that if you can't praise, if you can't give a better idea, it's better to be quiet. Here I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Defence Minister and the whole of New Slovenia for their outstanding work, for the work that connects firefighters across Slovenia. And that's what firefighters like to tell us. They like to lead. Unfortunately, there is someone here, alone, who makes confusion and unfortunately also health. That's not how they taught me at home, and my way of doing things is not what I'm going to do, so I'm going to commend every good thing. Let me finish. We Christian Democrats believe and will always take care of the community whose important article is firefighting in Slovenia. If possible, in the future I will be happy to vote for all good ideas that will support firefighters throughout Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u199	Thank you very much. He has Mr. Robert Pavšić on a procedural basis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u200	I would ask you, Madam President, to obtain the documentation of the Mayor of Postojna, in which it will be evident that the contract to co-finance the construction of the fire rescue centre was signed by the former government, but the failure to carry out the account or not to make the difference of payment was caused by this minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u201	Mr Pavšič, this is not a procedural proposal, it does not belong to the work and my management of this session, so you overstepped or abused a little, but it is, which is, I cannot take back the words. [[advertising from the hall]] That's what happens. That's true, Mr. Secretary. Do you have the final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'd really like to invite Ambassador Pavšič for a cup of coffee or tea. Today we have opened a special pre-election cafe on the Slovenian road and perhaps to clear up these things and to be a little more relaxed to get this bitterness out. And coffee always helps with these things. It is, however, a fact that we will have to talk to each other in this Chamber, we may have to spend some time with each other, so that you will certainly benefit from coffee or tea and I am inviting you to participate, I pay. That maybe we can break that ice and that tension. And once again, it's not my fault your president threw a rifle into the corn. If she wasn't, it would be different. Second thing. One thing I would like to do by the end of this term is to reach this agreement between the unions, because this would also significantly improve the working conditions of professional firefighters themselves. Of course, I hope you understand that I am avoiding a conflict with the Schwartz policy, because he wants this conflict, he yearns for it, and I want results. And since I want this thing to be settled, I'm the one who cut myself out of these negotiations. Just because I don't wave a red dress to the Swiss politician there all the time, my co-workers are taking these negotiations. In short, we're doing everything we can. I said, we've met 21 times to bring these things to an end. I also ask the other trade unionists to give some encouragement, however, to the policy of Schwartz to reach this agreement so that professional firefighters can have better conditions. On our side, all things are ready. I said that only three articles are open, which are non-essential, and remain open to supply on the side of Shwartz's policy, so that it can always talk about how this government does not negotiate with it. My sincere wish is to close this chapter as well. Of course, I will be happy if the Schwarc policy decides and when he can run on the list of Lefts and he will be in this House and we will have different discussions. As far as Postojna is concerned. We have paid 250 000 euros, so I believe that we have done our part. Now we will pay another 150 000 euros, as confirmed by the municipal council, and I believe that with some patience we will do so in the future. It is in the interests of the Ministry of Defence that it also develops infrastructure in the Postojna and its surroundings, so here you can always count on our generosity. With regard to CAP 10. If the problems prove to be problems, we can also use the opposition solution, but we have solved many more difficult problems, it is certainly one of the easier ones, and if the practice shows that they are causing problems, of course we will solve them without major problems. Let me point out once again that the Fires Act brings really big things, that I am sincerely pleased with this support from the Slovenian Association of Firefighters and the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters. Today, many mentions were made of what this law brings. There's a whole series of recruits. I might just mention the next two things that were less exposed. The proposal also introduces the possibility of organising a joint fire brigade for several companies operating their activities in the area on individual circular industrial complexes. So we also went across from the economy, that it is not necessary for any such company that by law needs this unit to have its own unit, but for more companies to organise one common unit. In short, it's one of those important things. It's an income law. Thank God the operative firefighters will receive this income relief and will be familiar with all the hours they spend and all the money they invest in firefighting in the fire department, but they also know little about it in their wallet. Of course, I'm inviting us all to our fire-fighting Olympics. This is a great recognition for Slovenia. I am sure that our firefighters will be successful and that we will be able to enjoy them together this year. Thank you very much to all who have seen good work in Slovenian firefighters, professionals and volunteers. They do a lot of good for Slovenia, and we will continue to support them in these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-18-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u203	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I also conclude the agenda item and interrupt the 30th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed on Monday, 21 March, at 9 a.m. Let me read the notice. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to take all their belongings out of the Chamber in order to prepare the hearing room. Thank you very much, very nice weekend, everyone. (The sitting was suspended 18.) MARCH 2022 AT 16.53.)
