ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, good morning! I'm about to proceed with the 95th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Bojana Muršič, Predrag Baković, Maša Kociper, Franc Jurša, Matjaž Germany until 14:00, Gregor Židan from 11.30 to 13.30, Brane Golubović from 20.00 to 22:00 and Igor Zorčič from 12.00 to 14.30. I welcome all those present once again! We're moving on to 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY — FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE MORNING LAW. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 39 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Matey Tashner Vatovci requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Blaž Koshorok, State Secretary of the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u2	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! You have before you the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Mining Act. This proposed amendment to the Mining Act removes the various shortcomings already contained in the original version of the law and has not been corrected by previous novelties. This corrects some mistakes with the novel. Corrections and simplifications shall deal more appropriately with certain areas, remove administrative barriers and others. It has also been shown by the implementation of the law that certain areas are not or are not sufficiently regulated. In this regard, the amendment is subject to a new set of procedures. Offences that have been released in the current law are further identified, so the inspectors did not have effective leverage to prevent irregularities. In addition, the area of hydraulic fracturing, illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials, compensation for mineral raw material obtained in the course of illegal exploitation and suspension of exploitation after termination of the concession and others are covered. Thus, the new law brings about the following fundamental changes. Definitions relating to the rehabilitation of premises are added. The concepts in the field of rehabilitation are used in practice at all times, but are not contained in the law in force. In practice, it has been shown that in order to avoid various speculations and to ensure effective recovery of the premises, as well as to ensure the effectiveness of the proceedings before the courts, a uniform understanding of concepts is essential. The novel also refers to newly defined concepts such as: technical recovery, biological recovery, recycling, re-enactment, opposite recovery, phase recovery, partial recovery and final recovery. The novel adds a ban on large-scale hydraulic fracturing and adds requirements for safe hydraulic fracturing below the limit of extensive hydraulic fracturing. This is not regulated in the existing law, although it has been occasionally carried out for over 50 years. It is significant for this hydraulic fracturing that sandstones are carried out, as opposed to media reverberating hydraulic fracturing, for example in the United States, where they are carried out in shale. For hydraulic breakage in sandstones in our country, it is essential to carry out lower pressures with smaller quantities of printed quantities and so on at significantly larger depths. Here I would like to point out that, as far as I am aware, an amendment to this article is also being prepared, which will amend the amendment of the law by completely prohibiting any hydraulic fracturing with the aim of implementing or exploiting hydrocarbons, so this definition of large-scale hydraulic fracturing will probably no longer be necessary. The amendment further deals with specific cases of extension of mining rights and concessions. Special cases are envisaged where mining rights and concessions may be extended even if the concessionaire does not have all the land within the premises of the acquirer, so that it does not have the right to carry out mining works on the land. In addition, the exemption for obtaining the right to carry out mining works on land shall be permissible where, in the case of large-area mining areas, which can be used gradually in individual fields. In this case, it is sufficient that purchases of land and legal transactions with owners can be concluded for individual rounded land or fields. It is, of course, important in terms of costs, since the conclusion of legal transactions for land on which exploitation will take place only over a number of years or even decades, constitutes an unnecessary cost of renting or of unnecessary fixed assets for early purchase of land. Further updates will also be made regarding the collection, management, publication of mining data and the added basis for the inclusion of electronic preparation modules and the submission of applications for notification of forms. The amendment continues to transfer the competence of a mining operator for municipal spatial planning from our Ministry, namely the Ministry of Infrastructure, to the Geological Survey of Slovenia, which is already preparing professional bases for our ministry for the preparation of guidelines and opinions in the municipal mining spatial act, with an amendment introducing the responsibility of a space regulator for that area while our ministry continues to monitor [[sign for the end of the debate]] over his work. Further provisions concerning the payment of compensation for mineral raw material obtained in the recovery of illegal bathing in cases where mining rights and concessions for exploitation cease before implementation. In addition, the transfer of mining premiums in the event of bankruptcy is regulated, certain issues relating to the decommissioning of mining rights are addressed, the area of construction works and the construction of forest infrastructure is regulated, the area of complete and permanent abandonment of mining infrastructure is re-established [[Incomprehensible]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Part and in addition, the area of regulation of occupations in mining and, of course, some other offences are covered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the positions of the Group. The first is Mr Robert Pavšič, who will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u4	It was interesting to hear this opening statement. And a promise to table an amendment on the general prohibition of fracking. We will certainly do so in the opposition along with the support of some parties, because unfortunately we cannot trust you. After all five, six runoffs about the Petišovci and the general prohibition of fracking, today we have a bill amendment on the table, where, after the original content, we again weigh people's right to a safe environment. We're talking about cracking again in Petišovci, we're talking about government deception again. Just before the plantation, the government changes its mind. Nice, better late than never. We have talked too much about this subject, and too many times the coalition side or government side has been citing the perpetuity of the solution. Today we have this systemicity on the table. In its original form, however, it makes it possible to say quite simply that in Petišovci fracking could be carried out. The applicant states in his explanation that the novel is totally banning large-scale hydraulic fracturing. What is this scale, and that's not known, is only a few numbers are imposed. Everything just assumes and fundamentally undermines security principles, fundamental principles. In the event of a planned injection of thousands of cubic metres or more of water into the well at the breaking stage or 7 thousand 500 cubic metres or more of water into the well, a mandatory environmental impact assessment is envisaged throughout the breaking process. However, it is in vain that the preliminary procedure in which an assessment is to be determined whether an assessment is necessary or not. Great. Instead of making it perfectly clear what rule needs to be met, the possibility of assessing whether an assessment is necessary at all. We will decide whether a decision is necessary to further address this law. And then the proposalr dares to point out that he has followed a precautionary principle in the design of the amendment. The precautionary principle is to prevent all potential dangers in advance. We've pointed at you at least six times. The burden of proof is on the operator, not on the people living around such establishments. In advance, it is necessary to prove safety, not backward, and it is already too late. The precautionary principle referred to by the applicant provides that a measure should not be implemented if there is a possibility that it could cause harm to the public or the environment and if there is no scientific consensus on the matter, policy or measure concerned. Practice is different around the world. In the LMŠ we advocate the fact that human health and the provision of a healthy living environment are always and absolutely in the first place. In cases where there is an unanimity opinion of the section on possible negative impacts on human health and the environment, the precautionary principle should be the main argument when deciding on the admissibility of such interventions. To this end, we have supported all the past proposed novelties of the current law, the purpose of which was a complete ban on hydraulic fracturing. Maintaining the possibility of hydraulic fracturing, which you allow with your proposal, will potentially affect the degradation of the area. On the other hand, both at European Union level and in Slovenia, we establish and implement mechanisms for a fair transition to a carbon-free society that is aimed at the rehabilitation of already degraded areas such as Anhovo, Shaleska Valley, Celje and so on. However, the government is proposing to us a hydraulic break with only a partial limitation. Cosmetic solution. By doing so, it created an apparent boundary between harmful and harmless hydraulic fracturing; fracking. This limit does not exist in practice. Each hydraulic fracturing is harmful to the environment, the question is only to what extent. The Frequent in 2011 was legally banned by France, followed by Bulgaria in 2012 and also by Ireland in 2017. The UK, too, has banned the production of natural gas by means of hydraulic fracturing technology, as the new scientific study has demonstrated an indisputable link between frequency and earthquake. And today we will decide to what extent dangerous activity is permitted. In LMŠ, we are strongly against the proposed solution. Fraking must be absolutely prohibited, not partly permitted. Pika.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Diane Jedhan. He will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u6	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State and co-worker, welcome! Everyone else here is very welcome! Of course, in the opposition, the current form of the Mining Act is understood as six attempts to prevent what you have already prevented us five times. So, we're talking in particular about dangerous and harmful technology, which, of course, you probably understand, we who come from Prekmurje are further interested. We're talking about whether fraking is harmful or not. Today, during the presentation by the Government, we have again – let's be careful, once again – heard the promise that during the legislative process an amendment will come, which will finally do what you have prevented us from doing five times, so that it will protect Slovenia from harmful fracking, and whatever it is called, small, large, medium and I don't know what else. If we did not already have similar experience, i.e. at the time of the debate, I think that the second or third attempt was made clear by the Government or the Secretary of State at the time of the debate, and this was also the reason that some Members stated that you did not support our proposal to ban harmful technology so that the Government would come with its proposal and protect us. It was nothing. We waited and waited, and that's why we had the number 3 test and the four and the five. By substantially changing the Government’s position in the meantime, the harmful fracking was suddenly no longer harmful to fracking. What is harmful in France, which is harmful in Germany, Great Britain, and elsewhere, for the Slovenian Government at some point was no longer harmful and there were arguments about what is big, what is small. There is a limit set by administrators at European Union level. What is forgotten is that all countries that have so far banned have talked about a precautionary principle. Most of the prohibitions are based on the stated fact that it is simply not possible to prove that any form of fracturing does not cause earthquakes. They are not the only dangerous thing that can be caused by fracking, even if chemistry is used, which is sometimes used, this chemistry, harmful, highly harmful chemicals can also be penetrated into the water system, groundwater and life-threatening. However, chemistry can also be eliminated and the injection remains due to the potential for earthquakes. And that was the main reason that they were banned and that they were significantly larger countries than Slovenia. We probably all understand that if, in fact, it is spoken within Poland or Germany or, say, Canada, the United States of America, it is a territory that is incompatible with Slovenia. Slovenia is more beautiful but much smaller. In fact, we cannot afford unexpected events of this kind, so we are predicting that the opposition has agreed to make a joint contribution to the next debate of the amendment, which will discuss the complete ban on fracking for hydrocarbon production. At this point, I would also like to say, once again, because, for this space I have already said, it was extremely inappropriate of those who were spreading rumors that the opposition, when it wants to ban fracking for hydrocarbon purposes, was deliberately trying to impede the use of geothermal energy in Prekmurje. This was such a very low blow that it is simply inappropriate to use in politics. For example, today, when it is announced by the Secretary of State that you will come with what we have been investing in the opposition all the time, I believe that at least at this moment those who promote such rumors will be ashamed to bow their heads and also excuse one of us. Everything must not be allowed in politics, but in particular not a lie. Of course, this law is broader, it's not just a cracking. Fracking is just the point that sticks the most. Some of the solutions in this marriage are good when we examine it. Some are still controversial and we will want to change and improve them further, but once again, because we do not trust you because we have assured you of a complete ban, that the ban on fracking on your part has already been obtained and has not been realized, the opposition itself will table an amendment and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs Natasa Sukić. It will present the views of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye! Of course, the opposition itself will table this amendment, which was announced by the MP before me, because we do not trust you. Why don't we trust you? I will stand in my position once again on what is written in your marriage, because your phantom amendment, which you have foretold today, has never been seen before, and I don't even know if we will really see it or see it in the form that it would be appropriate. Five times in Levica, in this mandate, we have proposed a ban on fracking. Five times. And five times the ruling coalition lifted that ban. Twice on the committee, three times at the plenary session of the National Assembly. Finally, in spite of the fact that 47 votes are clear in the National Assembly for a total ban on fracking, but the working-body relations in favour of the coalition are broken, however, which are totally contrary to the Rules of Procedure of those who break the opposition's legislative proposals even when, as it is said, in the National Assembly, a clear majority of them are. As for them is the State Council as in the case of fracking and also the Municipality of Lendava. And that coalition doesn't care. In spite of the rules, he cynically plays a democratic procedure in Parliament to undermine people, to undermine environmental degradation, which, of course, will suffer the consequences if anything breaks in the cracking process. And experience from abroad says it's pretty likely it will be. The Petisov field, the composition of which is identical to that of Groningen in the Netherlands, will be able to change something into another Groningen, where mining with hydraulic fracting, i.e. fracking, is constantly shaking, so much so that the houses of the local population are destroyed. The Dutch Government, however, ordered more than 200 companies that carried out fracturing there to have a moratorium on such mining. But all of this, Janša's government, at least for the time being, based on the proposal of this marriage without the phantom amendment that we have never seen, does not see and does not want to hear. She cares about human health, the biosphere area of the Mura River, which is UNESCO's natural pearl. No, Janshev is only interested in dirty business, capital and not people, even with a corporation that has even threatened to threaten the former environmental minister just to finally force this fracturing of its own in the UK, how interesting, where it comes from, because cracking is forbidden there. But we're obviously the third world. The boys of the grand capital. Everything can be done here, from the roommate in Anhove to the fracing in Petišovci. Who cares about our people and our natural wealth. The Government's argument at the outset was that we must not ban fracking, because then the British corporation will sue us at an ad hoc international tribunal where we will lose and Slovenia will have to pay millions of damages. They said we'd better wait for the British to run out of gas concessions in Petisovci. The procedures for obtaining permits are drawing them in one way or another, and the problem is that they will get rid of themselves. Then the same ruling coalition voted an anti-Korona law in which the government imposed an article on the extension of mining concessions. Thus, the Ascent Resources concession will not expire this May, thus eliminating the threat, but the government secretly extended their lives for another 18 months, bringing us closer to the great likelihood that the cracking in Petišovci will still take place. In Levika, with our efforts to completely ban fracking, of course, we are not and are not going to give up. We have continued to put our law into perpetuation, which has obviously been so annoying for the government to spread rumors after Prekmurje that we will ban, watch, the exploitation of geothermal energy, which is the absurdity of all absurdities and is indeed an extremely repulsive lie. We have clearly stated in our law that the prohibition applies exclusively to the use of hydrocarbons, namely oil and gas, peaks. Only for the use of hydrocarbons. In our fifth attempt last month, the ruling coalition broke our marriage by preparing its amendment to the Mining Act, which will systematically prevent the cracking. A typical Janšev trick, when there are no more arguments, this government demolishes the opposition's legal proposals and prepares its own, even though much worse and full of tricks, deceptions and even abuse. And now we have this government novel ahead of us. A novel that, as expected, prohibits so-called extensive cracking. And what was the famous large-scale cracking supposed to be? According to the government, this is the fracking, I quote, “where a vortex impresses thousands of cubic meters or more of water at the breaking phase or ten thousand cubic meters or more of water throughout the process”, the end of the statement. This will therefore be prohibited, which will be less than the gabarites so placed. It's clear from the plane what's going on here. After they had broken the law five times to completely ban fracking, after they were hypocritical and insidious with a plant on the British anti-koronic package, a concession for the use of natural gas in Petišovci, after spreading fat lies that we want to ban geothermal energy in Levica now prohibits something that no one wants to do anyway. In short, the ban on freaking in this law is set so that everything the British want to do in Petisovci is allowed. I will read Geoenerg’s PR Communication of May 2018 entitled “Petišov gas field plans for further development”, in which they announced that they would stimulate the PG10 and PG11A wells, which were not then hydraulically stimulated for years since 2017, and have not been included in production. They wrote: “The hydraulic stimulation process will be carried out to a similar extent as in 2011 and we will not need 10,000 cubic metres of water, as some media have misreported. For hydraulic stimulation, a maximum of 1,000 cubic metres of water per well is foreseen throughout the fracturing process, which is also recorded in the application.” It's an interesting coincidence that I'm comparing the dictatorship in the bill that's before us. The fact is that this Freaking Act makes it possible explicitly to do so in Petišovci. Even now, this law makes it possible for this to be written even more unequivocally. The depravity, defiance and shame of the ruling coalition in the case of freaking is indeed something remarkable. The first opinion received by the National Assembly in relation to this law is the opinion of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. This is what they wrote, stating: “In obtaining natural gas by means of hydraulic fracturing, there is a risk of accidents and pollution of the environment and of endangering the health of people with chemicals. In the hydraulic break of the sandstone Petišovsko polje lies on the sandstone. Many chemicals are used to produce natural gas to improve the efficiency of the process, but these chemicals may also pose a risk to the environment and health. The risk may already be posed by individual chemicals in addition to individual chemicals, posing an even greater risk of a mixture of injected chemicals. These are not the only ones that have not been identified and have never been checked. The total toxic carcinogenic and teratogenic effects are unknown. Injecting a mixture of chemicals can lead to an unpredictable risk to human health and the environment. New potentially toxic compounds are also emerging in the hydraulic fracturing process. The decision-makers are therefore invited to take into account the precautionary principle and the prohibition of hydraulic cracking for natural gas or from sandstones in Slovenia in order to prevent environmental degradation and health protection when deciding on a government proposal." Fraking must be banned. Very clearly and clearly and definitively just freaking out as such not freaking up to 9 thousand 999 cubics yes, freaking out over 10,000 cubicles no. All forms of hydraulic fracturing should be stated once and for all. Now someone is going to say, "Let's just give it to the law, because it can, then, happen to the amendment in further consideration as we've heard it. This must be said immediately, although this is indeed true, but that the five-fold rejection of the prohibition of hydraulic fracturing, the extension of the corporate concession that I would like to carry out in Petišovci and the fact that the law on the prohibition of freaking was finally rejected and on a committee where the composition does not reflect the majority support that this same law had previously received at the plenary session of the National Assembly clearly show that this is a pure illusion. This law must therefore be rejected now. And not just because of the freaking, there are other things that are at stake in this marriage. One central solution to the bill is also to extend mining rights to the concessionaire in the event that the concessionaire cannot, for justified reasons, satisfy the condition for the extension of the mining right. It is completely illogical, let's say that the law has written down some of the requirements that concessionaires have to meet in order to protect the land and the environment in which they are mining, and now these requirements will simply be thrown out because the concessionaires do not meet these conditions. If I go back to fracking. Fracking will be prohibited in such a way that it can be carried out smoothly to the intended extent. Failure to comply with legal obligations to extend mining rights will, however, be remedied by amending the law in such a way as to adapt the legal requirements to the situation on the ground. Do you see what kind of law we're dealing with? Not only is fracking a problem as said, but because fracking is the painful point we've been dealing with for a long time, we've tried five times already, but I'm focusing mainly on fracking. In short, it's simple, how this government imagines it. It is best to simply amend Article 3 of the Constitution, which says that in Slovenia the authority of the people will be stated that it has capital in Slovenia, so that the regulation will be aligned with the actual situation on the ground. It's crazy, but it's real. In their opinion, the Municipality of Šoštanj, the Municipality of Velenje and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia wrote: “We note that there is no legal basis for a starting point from which the proposer appears to have any specific legal position for the holders of existing mining rights, which would require amending the conditions of the Mining Law to extend the right.” (Final reference) It's true that they don't have it, it's clear to everyone, I mean, we get it. It is also clear to everyone that the Government gives it to them by this law, without any justification whatsoever, except that they will lose these rights because they have not taken care of themselves and have fulfilled all the legal conditions so that they can be extended. What the congregations say is true – the law is read as if the miners have a natural right to them, and it is necessary to adjust the law so that they can continue to have it. Of course, the municipalities propose to the National Assembly that the law be rejected, which is and would be the only right. The Novelo contains other provisions which, in the first reading, seem to have been disputed, although there was time to examine them better, relatively little, since this law, like most of the other contested laws of this Government, will be adopted by emergency procedure, at extraordinary and urgent meetings of the National Assembly, even though it has been proposed to be adopted on a regular basis. Here we have a simplification of mining abandonment procedures, and that the application for a decision on the cessation of rights and obligations of mining law will no longer have to be accompanied by a revised rehabilitation project, because the mining projects by which they exploited and abandoned exploitation are sufficient and recovery is clearly a third concern. And there's probably something else we could find, like we said, if we just had time to dig around. Then there are changes to the greater possibility for the public to look into the mining book and to the fact that all data and mining acts are available here and to supplement the provisions on inspection control, which are otherwise good, positive changes, so that we will not only criticize but not roughly outweigh all the bad solutions of this law. The prohibition of fracking, which is not, adapting legislation to mining rights, instead of adapting to legislation, again some administrative burdens, which are likely to go back to capital and to the detriment of nature and people, and more and more. Now let's wait. While we will make, as we say, an amendment of the opposition, proposing a total ban on all forms of fracting, such and other forms, but the right path – at least in Levica we are firmly convinced, we would be firmly convinced that this law should be rejected today and that we should re- table our law on the prohibition of cracking and adopt it immediately tomorrow. Discussions on it have been ongoing for more than a year and a half and further explanations and discussions I do not think are necessary anymore. With the bill on the table today, we will strongly vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mr Michael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u10	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, all of them have a good day. The proposed amendment to the Mining Act removes some systemic shortcomings of the existing law and simplifies and shortens certain procedures that are unclear. In this way, the procedures regulated by the amendment will be clearer and more transparent, and some will be considerably shorter. With the amendment of the Mining Act, the Geological Survey of Slovenia, in addition to the tasks of the public service and the public authority to manage and maintain the mining book, also gives public authority to carry out the tasks of the State operator in the area of mining in relation to municipal spatial planning, except in cases where municipal spatial planning is in influential areas of State spatial planning. The new law also regulates the concept and content of the mining book, which is a new online computer program and not a physical book. This improves accessibility, eliminates data access costs and reduces the burden on the Ministry and the Geological Survey of Slovenia by preparing data transmission. The renewed mining book will make it easier for officials of the Ministry to deal with customers more quickly, and it will enable mining inspectors to prepare and carry out inspections more quickly and efficiently. The amendment also regulates the extension of mining rights to concessionaires where the concessionaire cannot, for justified reasons, satisfy the condition for the extension of mining rights. Therefore, economic operators whose activity is the extraction of mineral raw materials, the adoption of a new law of vital importance, are said to be at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. This applies in particular to those undertakings which are already or will be short-lived by a concession for carrying out activities which, due to long-term bureaucratic procedures at the level of local self-government and which cannot be restored in time by countries. The fact is, as they say at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, that the current legislation in practice is difficult to apply, so two key conditions, i.e. the mining right or the right to perform mining works within the entire area of acquisition is virtually impossible to fulfil. They also welcome the intervention extension of the concession for a year and a half in the Chamber of Commerce, and point out that this solution is still not systemic, but despite this amendment of the proposed law at least currently solves the problem. In the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, however, it is stated that companies dealing with mineral extraction will not be able to meet the conditions for the extension of concessions after the present legislation, potentially causing large and irreparable economic and social damage, which will certainly have a broader impact on the effective implementation of both state and local projects and the threat of 7 000 jobs. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats in particular we welcome the measures of the complete prohibition of large-scale hydraulic fracturing, to end once and for all with the populist agenda of fracting, which scares the opposition throughout the country. This solution in the draft law is even more restrictive to take account of the precautionary principle than the European Commission proposes. It should be pointed out, however, that the general prohibition of hydraulic breaking of stones from a professional point of view is not justified. The amendment of the law thus retains a completely non-hazardous method that will continue to increase the efficiency of wells for thermal and thermal water production, activate wells and geological research. For all these reasons and because the adoption of the law is in the vital interest of all the economies and countries alike, we will also support the Mining Act, which is now on the table in Novi Slovenija – Christian Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u12	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The bill before us addresses various areas. Among other things, certain new concepts are being identified, it provides for compensation for the mineral raw material obtained for debtors of the recovery of illegal bathing, and it is also clearer to deal with certain issues related to the extinguishment of mining rights and the acquisition of mineral substances when public works are carried out. The mining sector is therefore an important economic sector, so it is essential that it is managed hand in hand with actual developments in practice and that the umbrella law is adapted in accordance with the shortcomings shown by practice. It is only in this way that the industry can be at its highest level of efficiency and the strongest and we know that only a strong economy leads to a strong social state, to higher wages and higher pensions. Many of the solutions that the proposal brings have already included a law that arose at the time of the Ministry's leadership by our mag president. Alenka Bratusek. These are changes related to the management of mineral raw materials that are necessary, some also because their inadequacy has been revealed by practice. Thus, the bill before us refers to various complex areas of mining. Mining is inseparably linked to permanent interventions in space. As a result, quarrying, gravel and coal mines are most often detected in the space, but for the customer SAB, a healthy and clean environment is an important priority, which we also consider to be our geostrategic advantage. However, there is a huge difference between the law of the day and the version that we received in the parliamentary branch in January. The 2019 proposal did not touch the extremely hot area of recent years, fracking. The harmfulness of fracking technology recognizes an increasingly large part of Europe and the fact that it is harmful is not an assumption is a fact. Its effects are reflected in various environmental impacts. There is an increase in seismic activity, possession, water pollution, if I only mention some. In our view, therefore, the only appropriate solution would be related to the prohibition of fracking which we have proposed in the opposition, and this is, of course, a complete ban on fracking. The solution proposed by the Ministry in its version of the law is, in our view, controversial. We do not agree that it will only be sufficient to prohibit large-scale hydraulic fracturing, as this in practice means that the fracking would still be permissible under certain conditions. In its opinion, on the government law, we were also attached to the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, which also calls for a complete ban on hydraulic fracturing, with a view to obtaining natural gas or hydrocarbons. They point out that there are risks of accidents and pollution of the environment and of endangering the health of people with chemicals. For example, people in areas where hydraulic fracturing is carried out are more likely to suffer from cancer. As an example, leukemia is highlighted in children and neonatal developmental disorders, as we know that a mixture of injected chemicals, hydrocarbons, and chemicals in wastewater may contain toxins, carcinogens and tetarogenes. [[?]] chemicals and chemical agents of hormonal disorders that cause a risk of multiple diseases. Is there anything else you need to add? Over the past two years, we have heard nothing of the need to listen to a professional. Let us also listen to it this time and say no to hydraulic fracturing. By doing so, we will protect people's health to the greatest extent possible and prevent environmental degradation. In view of the importance of regulating certain other issues of the proposals, it is concluded that the law is suitable for further consideration, otherwise we will not oppose the SAB Group. We also expect, therefore, to now predict that we will continue our struggle for the population of northeastern Slovenia when we consider the law on the working body, when we try to tighten the criteria for fracking by amending the law and ban the law in its entirety. [[…]] We therefore expect, even in the light of the announcements made by the Secretary of State, the amendment to be tabled in the opposition, the ban on fracking, including the support of the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak is next. He will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment to the Mining Act, which is now on the agenda of the general debate, removes some systemic shortcomings of the current law and, on the other hand, simplifies and shortens procedures. The draft law thus provides the basis for a uniform and effective management of mineral raw materials and allows for the extension of existing mining rights for exploitation. It also introduces simplification and better regulation of procedures in the field of suspension of exploitation. The proposal further details the areas of management of regulated professions in mining and inspection supervision. It also provides for more effective action in the event of illegal excavations and creates better conditions for reducing the grey economy. The law also touches on the prohibition of the use of hydrocarbons with extensive hydraulic fracturing, which has already been discussed in this National Assembly. In the Desus Group in the field of so-called fracking, which may potentially endanger the natural environment, we propose extreme caution. Otherwise, the novel doesn't count. [[?]] a number of conditions under which, to a certain extent, hydraulic fracturing could nevertheless be carried out. In the next legislative process, we propose to follow the precautionary principle and to carry out further consideration if we have really protected the environment and the people living in the area where these works are being carried out with the proposed restrictions and conditions. As we have already said in previous discussions on this subject in the Desus Group, we understand that the people in this area want to live in a healthy environment. The potential development of Prekmurje is recognised more in the direction of agriculture and tourism than in the intensive and potentially dangerous exploitation of soil. The Novela further extends the competences of operators for spatial planning at the local level from the Ministry responsible for mining to the Geological Survey of Slovenia. The concept and content of the mining book are newly defined, the possibility of including various records and various applications to assist in the application, notification of the bases for the assessment of mining concessions and means of recovery, stock and resources reporting and so on. Issues relating to the management of mineral raw materials are also addressed. Data is the basis for the extension of existing mining rights in specific cases. It is a newly regulated process for abandoning exploitation, and the possibility of temporarily or permanently depositing excess mineral raw materials in the implementation of state projects is added. The proposal for a law sets out more clearly the regulation of certain issues relating to the elimination of mining rights and the acquisition of mineral raw materials in the execution of construction works and the definition of specificities in the execution of State projects. In the Desus Group, we believe that marriage brings the necessary and good solutions. The next legislative process will be a time for possible improvements, and in particular a time for re-thinking, if the novelty is indeed sufficiently regulated by the area of the prohibition of hydraulic fracturing. In our view, this will require a subsequent amendment, which will definitively and unequivocally regulate this. In the context of today's vote, we will support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Šisko will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Recently, in the temple of democracy, we have debated a lot of arguments about the mining law. We have in mind, in particular, the disputed article 4 of the present article, which lays down, under Article 6, the conditions for obtaining a permit for exploration and mining rights for exploitation. On the left side, it has consistently argued in a fracturing manner, both at regular and extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, in order to prohibit fracting altogether. Of course, the SNS has always supported this, because in Slovenia we are masters, not foreigners. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that this would definitively prevent the plan of a foreign multinational to drill in the Premurian extremities. It has been quite a while since we received this government law, which, in addition to the other objectives or proposed solutions, is intended to prohibit only and only extensive hydraulic fracturing. In our view, all of this is beautifully written according to the articles of the law, but we still have doubts that in practice or in a moment, there might be problems in the execution of the break if something were to break loose and then find the culprit responsible for all these unloving consequences. The proposed solution should allow for a very limited and controlled implementation of hydraulic fracturing, where harmful consequences for Slovenians are expected, not for our animals, the environment and nature. Do you really think that mining rights for exploitation, including hydraulic fracturing technology, can be obtained under certain conditions? We are confident that the well over the floor is not capable of breaking 100 percent tightly in such a way that there is no leakage of hydrocarbons, soil and surface pollution, water and passage into the air. We are also rightly concerned about our groundwater, the aquifers, so that there may not be an unloved spill. In the Slovenian National Party, we further assess that the limit is between a large hydraulic fracturing and one that is not largely relative to the tank. The general prohibition of hydraulic fracturing seems to us to be highly professionally justified. For a good example, we can have all the countries that have completely banned fracking. They're very aware and certainly a step or two ahead of us. So why do we Slovenians have a fig in our pocket and go for our health to a partial, partial solution that will make us worse than good? Our future and our children, we must not put our grandchildren at risk, for we have the right to live in a healthy, clean environment, to drink clean drinking water. Let us not forget that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia also commands us to protect the rights of our citizens and citizens. On the ground, it seems to us that the bill removes certain systemic shortcomings of the current law, which have been in practice for many years. This means that it simplifies, shortens, or regulates certain procedures in unclear terms. We agree that the latter will certainly contribute to clearer, more transparent and shorter procedures. In all of this, however, we were greatly disturbed by the fact that, unfortunately, only extensive hydraulic fracturing is prohibited, and also by the fact that the law is written on the skin of foreigners or for the megalomanic interests of foreign profitable capital. Your Honor, I'll say it again. In Slovenian territory, we are masters, not foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u17	Thank you very much. As the last position of the SDS Group, Mr Franci Kepa will be presented. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u18	That's a nice greeting for the chairman. Nice greetings to the secretaries, colleagues, colleagues. [[Incomprehensible]] The Mining Act is currently in force on the date of 14. Seven. 2021 The Act on intervention measures to assist the economy and tourism in facilitating the consequences of the COVID-19 epidemic, by virtue of Article 11, which, irrespective of Article 50 of the Mining Act, provides for the validity of mining rights for exploitation, for which concessionary relations expire in 2021 or in 2022, may be extended by 18 months on the proposal of the concessionaire. The government has promised to prepare a new, better proposal for the Mining Act, which also deals with the management of mineral raw materials, namely the prohibition of large-scale hydraulic fracturing. The proposed amendment thus eliminates some systemic shortcomings of the current law, simplifies and reduces certain procedures and regulates those that are not clearly regulated. In this way, the procedures regulated by the amendment will be clearer and more transparent, and some will be considerably shorter. The amendment also complements certain provisions on inspection supervision and lays down fines for offences for which the inspectors were aware but did not have the legal basis for action. The draft law provides for the following main solutions: the definition of certain new concepts and a clear definition of those that may have been interpreted differently; the prohibition of large-scale hydraulic fracturing; the definition of the role of the Geological Survey in the preparation of general and concrete guidelines in municipal and state spatial planning procedures; the determination of the compensation for the mineral raw material obtained for the debtor of the illegal bath; the clearer regulation of certain issues relating to the elimination of mining rights; a clearer regulation for the extraction of mineral raw materials in the execution of construction works; and the definition of specificities in the execution of State projects; the simplification and regularisation of the complete and permanent suspension of the implementation of mining works; the regulation of the extension of existing mining rights for exploitation in certain specific cases. A number of positive environmental impacts are expected by the adoption of the law. Further regulation of the area of illegal mining is expected to reduce illegal environmental interventions or premises by further regulating the procedures for the suspension of mining works and by defining different types of rehabilitations and restrictions in this regard, and an improvement in the situation in the area of the rehabilitation of production facilities is evident after the completion of the exploitation of mineral raw materials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and Members on the proposal for a law. I also inform you that the current order of the following five Members and Members of Parliament who have been invited to the debate is shown on the screens in the Chamber. However, the entire order of the panellists reported is shown on the internal website of the National Assembly under the title list of the panellists. The order of the applicants may, of course, change during the course of the debate. The first one's up to dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. The bill under consideration, the topic under consideration, has several dimensions of one four, and I will start with the five principles first, which I wrote my submission. After a good seven years in the National Assembly, I would like something to say that is true in the German Parliament that you do not read. You read some numbers up, down, but get ready for the meeting and you know how to actually discuss things because we're not some guy who doesn't know what reading class. Another time. The issue of legal uncertainty. Now in that Cerara government too many lawyers and so on. [[Incomprehensible]] Under this coalition, even the Government has changed its internal rules because we have recently read that let's say that the government's legal service is some more non-binding group of people obviously for this Government's justified criticisms, the well-intentioned advice of our Law-Legal Service, this government is too often reviving it and the coalition. I remember even when Branko Grims was talking, and he even called for one lady to be from the Legal Service, because he didn't like something that was thrown out of the closet. We're not getting any better here. Laws fall into Parliament without some serious nomotechnics, let alone some serious definition. Now in this particular law, because quite a few colleagues told me what was extensive and what was a little less extensive. Now in the fabrication we know the XXL that I wear is something like L or M, which Montenegro probably carries the difference in scale. In all this story, I have another question to ask me. How long have we spent in this National Assembly for this freaking, or if I may say in Slovenian circumstances in a large or less extensive manner, hydraulic fracturing, not scaffolding, but in sandstone hours and hours. Instead of allowing these hours to come from an unthinkable and happy story of the transformation of Zasavje to focus on transforming Velje, Šostjanj and so on. How can we not put out some territorial and human energy potential that we have there as we have too much in Zasavje, and it is likely that Soni will say more about it. On the one hand, I do not yet know such an untalented politician will be drilling for shit about the green transition and smart transformation on the other hand, we will be talking about this freaking for a long time. And then I always wonder who's crazy here. It's probably Franz Runk. You've all stayed smart, but maybe a century behind, except for the rare exceptions left, right from me sitting. And now we have pre-eminently had some digital vouchers, and then, if I go to read Umar's report, about the smart transformation are behind us on the scale of investments, if we give NO together cohesion 2021-2027, only Czech Republic, Malta and Cyprus. These are the things I'd like to talk to you about. And a productive Slovenian economy, which is not exactly brilliant, but I have no illusions that this will be the topic of pre-election confrontations. And now we're all going to get a little tense here, by choice, including those Members who have slept for three and a half years, how we, as a young Scotch, are going to throw ourselves at this fracking instead of dealing with some serious challenges. Why is that possible? Because of some ease of lobbying. One of my good acquaintances happened to be in a Ljubljana restaurant when there was a Grammy of Belarusian NSI members who hosted Emčam and a lady from Emčeva went out for an uncle and was quite easily on the phone talking, but, look, no problem, we'll just half-pick you. That's just the fact that my colleague told me, he even wrote it down on Facebook somewhere. It's not just this side of the street. You remember the Sharche government and lobbying the global tobacco lobby at the time, and we barely somehow defended this attack and then it's the way it is. And then the SNS comes in and there's a colleague who just said out, and we're the master among strangers here. But yes, then probably someone who was in Lendava yesterday for SNS is not a foreigner in the Republic of Slovenia. I don't know. Jani Möderndorfer would say, I'm just asking myself out loud. You know, these are some stories. Of course, it is difficult for me to object to the fact that there is a clear dictatorship in the law of a matter, but if at least the legislative and legal service of our National Assembly were taken into account, this law would already be more specifically written in the original, and our President up or down or down, as colleague Reich has said. I could talk for a long time, but I won't take too much time if we're somehow a green destination, as Restoration spoke in the first term, and in the second, a little less in the third, if we're for a green transition, if we're for a smart transformation, if my colleague Montenegro is going to be talking about some digitisation up and down, a little over and over again in Nezbita's way from the 1980s, and I've been reading some professor's performances, because I should obviously deny that I'm a professor in departure, and that I've probably spent a hundred grand interest on books not on cars, and then we've got some beaks. Then we have the country we have. And we will now continue to waste time instead of following some societies that can think of themselves and shake this fracking out and out. Period. Amen. Let's start with some serious development challenges. Also serious reflections on some of the rehabilitations that I have mentioned before. However, I fear that, with this principle, some as positional, who have now woken up a little bit, will end up with this law if it is passed, something that I know will probably have an article that will have a semi-large hydraulic fracturing or I don't know what. Someone like that, but you know. Constitutional parliamentary democracy is supposed to be governed by laws. These laws are supposed to be clear. The National Assembly is not an area for nettles and untalented poets, much too often the laws that we have been dealing with here since 2014, which I am here, are, and under this government are markedly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Koražija has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u22	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. Yes, this spin, which is now, I will say in response in these parts of Eastern Slovenia, and in general Prekmurje, that someone wanted to fabricate the truth, that by banning franking, also the possibility of drilling or drilling also in relation to geothermal energy or in general others, I will say thermal water. And as a colleague of France said before, in fact when we are talking about Slovenia, we are also speaking unfortunately or we should also speak locally, it is said when we point out these themes. And in fact, people in Prekmurje disagree with the idea of fracking or even with the consequences of fracking and disagree with it. That's a fact. If you had made a referendum in Prekmurje today, whether you're for fracking or against it, you'd have lost 95 to 5%. Yeah, and more than that. And I also see the biggest problem with this fracking story, that it never listens to this local environment, and unfortunately too little takes into account these environmental impacts, not only on nature, but also on humans and animals, which, as a result, suffer from the consequences of the cracking itself. Another matter, which is very sophisticated. When it comes to fracking, it is never clear that we are talking about fracking in fact about hydraulic fluids that are mixed with sand and also water. And in fact, whatever you are going to inject into, according to domestically said garden or land or in this area, will have a unfortunately negative effect on biodiversity, on groundwater and then on all other things. And when I spoke earlier, we are also very proud of the thermal water on which we can boast in Prekmurje or even in the vicinity of Murska Sobota, and we are all very proud to have such an opportunity or such natural wealth as we can boast and with which we can, yes, expose ourselves in the sense of Europe when we like to point out that we are trying to become a healthy destination, not only green but also boutique. You do this many times in your government. So we're trying to do this, or it's supposed to be trying to make the tourism offer healthy, green, and then everything else. What is also important when it comes to fracking is the fact that they descend into the ground and into the groundwater and also into the air of various toxic substances from arsenic to toluene, then benzene. And in fact, these are poisons or chemical compounds that cause cancer in humans and also other diseases that have a particular environmental impact, in this case Prekmurje. And if you know, if you take a good look at the map, where we currently have the most cancer patients or even the most severe patients, it is unfortunately eastern Slovenia and even the area of Prekmurje. Look at the cards, you'll be very shocked. And after we start talking about fracking, you're actually going to marginalize this area even more, or you're going to make it even more healthful, and you're going to destroy the real health of people. That's it for now. Then I'll give my colleague his word that he'll say something. The fact is, let's listen to the local environment. And the Prekmurks are against fracking, let's get this straight. People live there, understand what this is all about. But if you don't understand, then we have a serious problem because you don't understand people, even from that environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Chernigoj has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u24	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank my colleague, Duck, for mentioning me twice in his speech. I am honored, and I must say that I support his investments in books, and we need them. I can say that I invest in people, in their experiences, in help and in integration. But since I want to be exact and go back to the Mining Act, I would say very short, but clear and exact. [[?]] that an exemption is added in the amendment to the Mining Act to extend mining rights to coal miners. In these cases, it is not possible to establish a rounded whole within the acquisition of space, as the impact area is spread across the entire acquisition area due to specific exploitation technology. It is also not possible to ensure the acquisition of mining rights on all land, since these land is more than 2 000 units. Coal mines have been successfully and without the need for special legal arrangements through a special institute, and this institution is called mining damage. To this end, the company plans and monitors the effects on the surface in line with the progress made in underground exploitation and, if necessary, purchases property before exploitation or takes care of substitute real estates and pays compensation for any minor damage in such cases physically. This is how I will support this Mining Act, because I think it is in the general interest of everyone, both the economy and the countries, so I will also support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u25	Thank you very much. There's a replica of Dr. Runch.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u26	Thank you. I'm glad my colleague appreciates people who read books. I also appreciate people who have written a beautiful book seriously or more of them, our colleague Sukič. But, you know, what's interesting, what a colleague has read now, he's actually said that classical mining is already causing damage, some damage that needs to be remedied for centuries. Not very extensive - although we do not know what is extensive - hydraulic fracturing is cool, is it not. And then New Slovenia, whose leader of the parliamentary group is coming from Žižkov – Žižki are still in Prekmurje, as far as I know - this is the subject of ten minutes' total, even though they will splash on the other hand how they have a responsible minister. I mean, this could be some question for those - what they already have - of the logic contests for the first three classes of primary school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr. Robert Pavšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, I don't know, it's usually been the practice in this Chamber or the committees that the proposer responded at least to the views of the members of the groups and advocated the proposal of his own law. But today we will again answer the blanks of all those who are actually asking questions for the sixth time today. The proposer should state how the applicants, i.e. the Government, will prohibit fracking. But I'll respond to your views. Obviously, the proposer also did not inform his coalition MPs that they would table these amendments because they were confused when they read their views. And I wonder if they were not worth at least this information because everyone or Nova Slovenija even praised the existing form of law that allows for less extensive cracking. However, the SDS did not even mention these matters in the position, which means that they are either irrelevant to the coalition species or a debate is left to be held for a more appropriate time. Politics is a matter of compromise, it is the art of possible, but not always. Sometimes it is necessary to draw one absolute limit over which it must not and will not be overstepped. And such harmful technologies as fracking are actually this limit. I really hope that you recognize this too, because otherwise things will get worse politically, so that you don't understand it as a threat, they will get worse. However, it is as we have pointed out in our positions primarily on the issue of trust, credibility. We've seen what can be done with individual special laws. Let's think about the earlier mandate of lex specialis on Magna. This was a disaster for Slovenia because it opened the door to potential similar interventions. And it is very similar to the one we are discussing today. Why do I show credibility? Your ministry is a major contributor to the Water Referendum. Your arguments in people have not stood up. You made a big deal of it, whether you didn't know how to explain it to people or if they didn't believe you. Both resulted in total defeat. Is that why you are more credible with Members or with people? You're not. You, for example, have also included taking away the legal interest of NGOs in environmental procedures. I know it's embarrassing to listen to these things, but you've been trying to set up some mechanisms that don't arouse trust, but just the opposite. And then if the system we're living in alerts you to this and confirms that you've been thinking wrong, even unlawfully, it's just reassurance of mistrust. What credibility do you have for this? And today you're going to get us back in trouble. Today we will vote whether the law is suitable for further consideration. The law we have on the table is not suitable for further consideration, even if it has some good solutions. But for further consideration, it's not only because of the content of the law, it's not appropriate because we just can't trust you. In the light of the past, we can't trust you. At least some kind of written commitment would be given something in writing, because who knows what will write in this amendment, which you will propose and which you have not even revealed to your coalition MPs. Today I'd be looking at you very badly from that side. What Comrade Trček constantly points out, you answer to the National Assembly, is not the opposite. You're proposing laws, and we're accepting them. But the government is responsible for its work to the National Assembly, not the other way around. This is what we have done in the last term or in the last two years, because the machinery is such that it raises its hands to the command, no matter what the content is, and today you have only confirmed once again that you do not communicate with your own, let alone try to get to the opposition Members, and try to find a solution in advance, but not just to file a law, then expect support from us, or at least not opposition, because it's always so damn urgent, but this time it's in a hurry for completely different reasons, it's running out of time, and it's not going to turn out again as a pre-election matter, you know when we've started to deal with this subject far before the elections, but you've always found an argument that we can't make this, because we're going to make a better solution. And they believed you. We don't. And the evidence is back here, we have it on the table. So it will be difficult to convince us that your intentions are pure or, at least, tell me what happened in the middle, why did you change your mind and, in your opinion, will you completely ban the fraking? What happened? Because if you're going to explain this to me without then distancing yourself from past arguments, you're also inconsistent. I understand that the thought, the idea, can change, according to some data, that rationally approaches the design of the solution, but given all the warnings that we have given you from the opposition benches, you have always found in your argument a rational one again, of course in the notes and on your part rational reasons how this is not good. Now I'm really curious, but why did it all of a sudden become good to ban it? I really urge you now to answer at least this question, how has your thinking changed, and it depends on how I vote today? Well, you're going to get the law through, in fact, you wouldn't have to say anything today because yours would vote any way you would, but my vote depends on how you explain your change of mind and what the final solution will be, what this amendment you've put in your position today, by the way, and then we haven't even talked about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Now, the topic that we are talking about today, in fact, about the law that regulates everything else, not only is this fracking, which is both for us in the opposition, but also for the residents, where this fracking is supposed to happen, of course, unacceptable, environmental dispute, not to mention, because we have been looking so much at five meetings when we tried to make a legal ban on the use of this technology in Slovenia. Now, this topic is relatively simple. If I recall a little bit that we have very, very ambitious goals ahead of us, in the area of environmental objectives, nature protection and a healthy natural environment, it is totally unacceptable that we are talking today, and that we are opening the way to a technology that is, I would say, environmentally controversial, affecting the environment that pollutes water resources, releases into the air, in short, technology that is banned in many countries, and we are trying to give it a green light for operating on the Slovenian market or in our country. Now, if we talk about this story, because all the judges around these potential wells in Petišovci are not completely any reason or economic or environmental reason to turn on the green light in the first place, I wouldn't say anything that isn't negligible to foreign corporations, so that it can interfere with such technology in the environment, because it definitely leaves consequences. If I see for myself that the fact that in Petišovci about 90% of all the revenues from this well would be good for British corporations and that all the quantities of this gas would essentially cover less than 10% of our needs, then I think that this is already enough eloquent data to avoid the need to turn on the red light for the use of this technology in Slovenia. Last but not least, since my colleague Trček mentioned earlier, I come from Zasavje, where we also have hundreds of kilometers of trenches left us after the closure of the Trbovlje Hrastnik mine and tell you that the earthquake that shook us two days ago was – I think it was 2.9 on the scale – I did not know how high he would have invited you to listen to what was happening in Zasavje when the earthquake was relatively low. Drumling underground is also, of course, due to the collapse of trenches, water, quantities flowing and we are trying to reintroduce or re-initiate a green light for technology that will once again reach the environment at some other end of Slovenia, where I think we need to exploit everything other than gas, geothermal technology, which has been mentioned many times today. In short, I think we are too aware that, in the fact that this one, as I said before, is essentially a lot of dangerous water resources besides releases in the atmosphere, too, that we are not aware in Slovenia, that we are one of the rare countries in the world that have this privilege, that we drink pure drinking water from the pipe, which is in our own right, and that is unfortunately, respected colleagues and colleagues, already luxury. Few countries have this privilege, and therefore I must do everything I can to protect these resources and this beautiful land of ours. All this calvary around this freaking thing is, in my opinion, only one reason from behind, and it's the pressures of foreign corporations. The shameless have taken them into all procedures and that now I do not think that even a few of my colleagues have mentioned from threats to the former Minister, with lawsuits against countries and not least come from a country that does not allow this freaking and we do not know what to allow. In short, the arguments are more than enough not to do so. Now the promise made today by the Secretary of State or by the Secretary of State to prepare an amendment, if I have understood correctly which one should have drawn or banned the use of freaking in Slovenia, I will be very happy if this is done here, but because we have already heard some promises from the Secretary of State in recent months that they have not kept. Let me remind you of the promise made at this National Assembly in early November when we asked you to prepare measures to help people with the energy crisis at higher rates. You promised it'd be a few days, one month. You have brought this law after four months, when the vast majority of countries have already helped their citizens in one way or another and you brought it to the citizens in February, but you will pay for it at the end of the smoking season. These are the facts, and you are likely to come up with some other measures in the coming days. I don't think we'd be thinking about withdrawal either, because of your beliefs or your amendments, you're probably afraid of those, as I said, that this change in attitude was also influenced by the upcoming elections. To conclude, dear colleagues and colleagues, we are not, we, which are a small country, will never be important in the field of energy resources, but we have a very beautiful country with a lot of unspoiled nature, with lush forests and a lot of water resources. We need to do everything we can to keep these resources safe so our researchers can have them. Of course, as long as they actually table an amendment to deal with what we oppose, this is the possibility of fracking in Slovenia, because this law also brings, and a hand to the heart, which is a few good solutions from other areas as long as this is withdrawn, I will think about my support for the law. At the moment, I do not support it, given the existing ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Government Representative, respectable two members of the government coalition and others! Now that we're looking at such proposals, there's only one thing we can do tomorrow. There's no friendly fracking. Fracking is the extraction of fossil fuels and the friendly extraction of fossil fuels. The government's diction, let's say with this bill, is that if we draw 9,000 999 cubics, it's a kind method, if we draw 10,000 1 cubic meters, it's an unfriendly method and it has to be discarded. But basically fracking is the acquisition of fossil fuels and at a time when the whole world is turning away from the acquisition of fossil fuels, the only logical conclusion is that there is no friendly production of fossil fuels, there are no compromises here and there cannot be. Acquisition of fossil fuels is a harmful method. It is harmful because of the very use of fossil fuels, we are at the threshold of climate damage due to the use of fossil fuels and CO2 emissions, and it is harmful to acquire. And as Member Chernigoy of NSI said, mining, which is the most plastic example of the harmfulness of fossil fuels, has been recovering for centuries. Now whether we Petišov want to serve a new Zasavje under the guise of the friendly acquisition of fossil fuels, which we have already heard about today. In Zasavje we have been struggling with a fair transition for 30 years and we have been working hard to do what we do from this region, which is devastated by the environmental core of mining and is therefore due to the abandonment of mining and an unfair vision of the transition to social, economic and further desertification, and at least this school could be used by the Government and is not a copy trap in Petišovce to another region, which has thousands of other economic, environmental and I do not know what potential. You, dear Government, should focus at this time on how to implement the commitments under the Paris Treaty, how to adopt ambitious plans and action plans for a fair transition that will cover the transition from the use of fossil fuels in the economic field, to the environment, however, in the social field, not to go in the diametric opposite direction and open up new fossil fuel lines as fracking is. And, of course, this law is not suitable for further consideration by the promised amendment that I know nothing about or without it, fracking is not suitable for further application. None of this, my respectable colleagues, but drinking water. The government is here, it could have listened to our calls, and the fifth calls we made in Levica for a complete ban on fracking and environmental solutions, so to speak, for Prekmurje, it has not done so. This is a less than half proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State wants the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u34	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It's not gonna be true that the government is avoiding it in any way, and it's not just the fracking law. Express yourself as if we were talking exclusively and only about fracking. That's not true. I've given a number of reasons, and I'm sure you've read the contents of this law well. All those Members who come from Zasavje know the consequences of mining in Zasavje, as both Members have been talking about so far. And that's also one part that we regulate with this law. I think that Zasavje as well as the other or coal mines in closing or closed mining premises deserve to be monitored. RTH, you know we've extended the law for two more years. And specifically this Mining Act regulates monitoring, regulates the maintenance of permanent cave facilities after the closure of coal mines. That's a fact. It regulates the way the concession will handle it, it also regulates the financing. Because we know that the experience that we can't, the concession just goes away, shuts down, and we all go away. Of course it's not like that. The fact is that this law removes or amends the various shortcomings of the existing law, we add some new ones. We are talking about that areas, but some of the procedures are making it easier to increase control, which is a lot more common, at least in local communities where quarrying is, have been given that simply this control of implementation has not been exercised, that mining rights have been allocated, that there has been a known gainful space, but that it has been outside many baths and so on and so on. Now the very large ban on large-scale hydraulic fracturing as contained in this novel is the fact that the conditions under which it can be carried out are laid down. I'll say, we're talking about the novel. These are the taxa-listed conditions under which it is indicated. We are talking about very restrictive commitments or the requirements that the novelty brings, which it introduces, when and under which conditions such hydraulics are allowed under this limit. The extra terms are listed in the law, so I won't have them again. We are also talking about environmental impact assessments. We are talking about the preliminary procedure that you mentioned, or when and how it is done, that there is even a comprehensive environmental impact assessment, says two security guards. As I mentioned, yes, the ban on the amendment will prohibit any hydraulic fracturing for the purpose of exploration or exploitation of hydrocarbons. Ambassador Pajovitch asked me why, how, what's the reason to do this. A lot's changed in the meantime. Every time we wanted to, when the law was in government procedure, you introduced a new law. I have repeatedly explained to my colleagues that it is that we will systematically regulate these matters and that this proposal, which is before you, is systematically regulating these matters. I think that the argumented debate can be a reason for the proposaler to change his position at some point. There is no bad or bad intention here, why it is done. A lot has changed in the meantime, a lot of European legislation has become, we have received a big Fit for 55 package, and the government has finally adopted a coal exit strategy. And this is also one of the reasons why there has been a change of attitude. And I think sometimes it's okay to listen to each other and talk to each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Reploco has Mr. Pavšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u36	Thank you. I'll just press the button, said Master Boccaccio. I think we didn't get along when we talked about the amendment of the law. We've all pointed out from the opposition that the law has some good solutions, but that one thing out sticks and it's just fracking. And we drew a line on this thing. That's absolutely not. We will not discuss this at all, even if there are countless good solutions to the amendment of the law earlier. This is what we are used to in ten PKP anti-Korona packages. You always set something up. Sometimes we managed to withdraw it because it was too harmful, but sometimes it wasn't. And when you talk about environmental impact assessments, this is where they put the fuse. You will judge, in the light of the original proposal for the amendment of the law, whether an assessment is necessary at all. Wait, that's right, I don't know I'm not even going to start this topic, because then we can go to all the water protection regulations, to all the state spatial plans, to all the integrated environmental impact assessments that this ministry - not just because of you, but because of all your predecessors - has not yet implemented, but they are absolutely necessary, and we both agree here because this is not a matter of this policy, this government, but a whole range of previous governments. [[…]] But I cannot go beyond your argument, "because we can change our position, we will change it." Yeah, wait a minute, come on! If you have previously had arguments to the contrary, give arguments for this position as well! Because this is underestimating to the opposition Members because “we can change our minds, we will change it, and you will be content with it or not. ” [[…]] Even when this law, this amendment, this solution that we have on the table today, is available, even when we have dealt with the same subject on the previous committee, you have clearly rejected it, along with your coalition Members. “Today we change our minds because we can.” I'm sorry, but this is really humiliating.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Rudi Medved has the floor for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u38	Thank you, Vice President. Only in the mill should we say it twice, but in the National Assembly, at least as far as LMŠ is concerned, we have said it five times so far, and today we say it six times – that we are simply against cracking. And it's not like you're a little bit out of your league, but you're kind of limiting it a little bit — it's just here, whether you let it happen or you don't allow it. So you rely on all the arguments that are on the table, and these anti-fracking arguments are incomparable more than for. Well, which is for, except, of course, the profits of those who would do it. I am the third member from Zasavje, Mr Secretary of State, and I must say, of course, I have looked at the law and it is not only about fracking, but it is the opposite. Some things about the rehabilitation of the environment after mining and the like, of course, govern well. Yeah, it's fine, I could even support this law. But why, for God's sake, something you do good, why you tear it down then, like we say in a conversation, with your last paycheck and scream in the marriage this fracking. Now, according to your last explanation, you haven't changed your mind, no, no, no, you've actually argued through this last explanation why this limited cracking did. And the ruling coalition has not changed its mind about this. This showed the five chapters that are behind us because the ruling coalition has always been against the law banning fracking, which we have invested in the opposition. Even so – of course, the situation has changed into so much that in the National Assembly, I say, in the National Assembly, there is a majority that is against fracking, but this has proved, of course, that it was in the fourth attempt, I do not know which, because there were so many - the fact that this established majority in the National Assembly with 47 votes supported the general ban on fracking, and then the boys and girls from the ruling coalition on the board, ten of them, 47 - 10, and overpower the majority will of the National Assembly. And in fact, that's what makes your transformation sudden. Nothing in the government has worried you about human health at night, and you have not been convinced of the arguments that we have all along and that the whole world knows. Why are countries actually banning each other's fracking? These arguments have not convinced you absolutely anything, and you have nothing to worry about about the environment. We even had a member from the ruling coalition who voted against the law banning fracking, because his heart is beating for Prekmurje and he also said that the minister's heart is beating for Prekmurje, but fracking is fine. It's just a noise on the heart. The heart beats for Prekmurje, but fracking could only be a disturbance or a noise in the heart. That's how it went. And what happened to you in the end? When my colleague Robert asked what happened now that you made this salad mortal? It's not a big deal. You tried to know what the majority of the National Assembly was like, and then there were some little mice under the law, while at the same time some MPs who had supported the ban on fracking scared them and lied to them about how the general ban on fracking also meant the simultaneous ban on the use of thermal water in Prekmurje. That's what happened, Mr. Secretary of State. You can deny it a hundred times, and I can deny it to you because I've spoken to people. You've been prevented for the last few days by what will happen. The fall will be all. And in this way you tried to create this majority and of course you would go such a law then even through. Well, it didn't work. It didn't work because some people who have been against the faction ban so far have missed this game and are still in favour of banning fracking. Which means that a marriage like that you brought to the National Assembly would not go through, a guarantee – you wouldn't go through, you'd burn. And then you press something through your teeth about this amendment. What's that? In the same breath, you're actually explaining how well this limited hydraulic fracturing is resolved, but the arguments, you say, have changed in the meantime. No, the only thing that has changed in between is that, of course, you've lost most than you've lost many times before. Now it is difficult to withdraw this, but we would be convinced because you know that this law depends on the opposition, because this law cannot go through parliament differently than to gain or try to gain at least part of the opposition and those who, for example, have voted consistently against cracking so far. And that's it. What arguments?Oh, my God! If you really change your mind, because overnight doesn't change that. I don't believe it. You go to bed tonight. You say I'm a freak. You wake up in the morning and you say, uh, cracking and I'm not. Yeah, you wrote your marriage fracking. Yeah, you wrote it. If we really changed our position, we would have basically brought in a law where a clear ban on fracking would have been laid down. And there wouldn't be any trouble. Why is this amendment needed now? Why? You wrote, you wrote in the law, fracking stays in such an extent, I don't know what it is, God knows it, but, and now you need an amendment that even coalition MPs don't know anything about. And now, if you have a serious intention, we don't believe, of course, because so many times in fact, the situation, well, even in this case, now, if this is how the situation changes from last night to this morning, that you're dreaming of the harmful consequences of the friking and you're up against it in the morning, but what if you're calmed down in the morning, you'll find that in the evening, actually, because it's not so bad, well, whatever stays. This can be achieved in 24 hours with this government, once and for all, and we should believe now, but you know that the opposition is, of course, dependent on this law, life and we now have to believe in the word that you will come with this amendment. And even if you come in, we don't know, we don't know. Do you think they'll just support him? [[…]] Yes, obviously, you don't know what coalition Members are doing, coalition Members don't know what you're doing. But we're in the middle of it now, so let's trust them for once, for once. Me to whom? Who should we trust? Now, if you had such a purpose, I would at least suggest, I don't know, an additional decision, an additional decision that the Government undertakes to submit this amendment to the procedure you are talking about. It's not like that either. Now, right on, beautiful eyes, right, sometimes we said, but it's very hard, very hard to support anything that comes from the government and pisses me off that although you have relatively good solutions in this law in this way ruined and rejected us from this law, because you know well that in the opposition's position all the time, as far as fracking is concerned, we are not changing it, and we will not change it in the future, and if we had a serious purpose, we would have come up with a law where fraking would have been banned, we would have now accepted it and would have settled it in this mandate. Now it can happen that again, of course, it will happen or if this is the purpose – or if this is the purpose – that, of course, everything will also fail and the fracking will continue before the new power will be established after the elections, you know, and this, and summer, and that, and that, and that, is the end of the year, the fracking will continue. It can also be a game, I don't know, but I'm not a theorist, a proponent of conspiracy theories, but because, in fact, what a person should actually think about it. So, it's a shame, Secretary of State, that you've ended up with this law in this way, but in fact, we could all find each other very well if you really overwhelmed the Mura and came to the other bank, to us who are against the friking, if you really overwrought it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Boris Doblekar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. These views, and the discussions that we are hearing today, are only on one topic, on the friking. I'm a loose end. You probably haven't read what's going on in this law, it's the Law on Change and Complementation of the Mining Act, where there's a bunch of good solutions and a bunch of important solutions that need to be refreshed and not included in the law so far. And you're only talking about one thing here, of course, the one that suits you the most, which might bring some political point. All I want to say is that in this marriage, it's also in the material that we got beautifully written on the lines in which the contents of this law are. It spells out the ban on extensive hydraulic fracturing if you haven't read it. If we move on. Regulation of special cases of extension of mining rights and concessions. This is probably not what you read in this law either. I didn't hear anything about it in the opinions, at least by the opposition parties. Modernising the arrangements for the collection, management and publication of mining data is also part of this amendment of the law. The role of the Geological Survey of Slovenia in the preparation of guidelines and opinions in municipal and national spatial planning procedures is the content of the law. Regulation of the payment of the refund for the mineral content obtained for the debtor of the recovery of the illegal spear. Nothing touches such important things for the environment, for nature, for people, for the economy. That seems essential to me. Regulation of the way in which the recovery is carried out and the payment of compensation for the mineral raw materials obtained for the recovery allies after the cessation of the mining right and the concession for exploitation. You have also overlooked this and it is written in very detail in the law. Then there are also some questions about the elimination of mining rights, some questions about the extraction of mineral raw materials in the execution of construction works, the construction of forest infrastructure and agglomeration, and the search for areas for the disposal of large amounts of mineral raw material surpluses in the execution of state projects. Questions relating to the early, complete and permanent suspension of mining works. Some issues related to the management of regulated mining professions, the definition of offences and fines for certain infringements of the provisions of the Mining Act. The material is very extensive. The objectives, principles and main solutions of the bill. The main objectives of the proposed law are: to provide a basis for the single and effective management of mineral raw materials, to allow the extension of existing mining rights for exploitation, to simplify and regulate procedures in the field of suspension of exploitation, to remove administrative barriers, to regulate the field of regulated mining professions, to regulate inspection activities more effectively in the case of illegal mines and to reduce the grey economy - do you not think they are important? - more effective action in the case of illegal spears - does it not matter? – and the reduction of the grey economy, does it not matter? The basic principles of the proposed law are – to list them once again if you have not read them but if you have not gone into law with great joy – the prohibition of large-scale hydraulic fracturing, uniform and effective management of mineral raw materials, proportionate interference with property rights and the right of municipalities to determine the intended use of space. To the maximum extent possible, ensure that the exploitation of mineral raw materials is not carried out without prior mining rights and concessions. Simplification of understanding of concepts relating to the rehabilitation of the acquisition space and the effective implementation of procedures for the suspension of exploitation. Still, what are the main solutions to this law I have not heard in my views except in the positions of the coalition parties. The draft law provides for the following main solutions. Identify some new concepts and a clear definition of those that may have been interpreted differently. These are very important things that the old law did not have and, of course, this law also has all the support of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Prohibition of large-scale hydraulic fracturing. Definition of the role of the geological institution in the preparation of general and concrete guidelines in municipal and national spatial planning procedures. Determination of the refund for the mineral raw material obtained for the debtor of the recovery of the illegal bath. These are things in marriage. A clearer regulation of some issues regarding the elimination of mining rights. More clear arrangements for the extraction of mineral raw materials in the execution of construction works and identification of specificities in the implementation of state projects. Simplification and deregulation of the complete and permanent suspension of mining works. And the solution, the main solution, is to regulate the extension of existing mining rights to improve in certain specific cases. Of course, we are only listening to a mantra that you have been repeating and working with for some time now, but interestingly, from what you, a respected KUL coalition, came to the opposition when you were in government, when you ruled, when you had scissors and canvas in your hands, when you were leading Slovenia, otherwise very poorly, to the target of the rifle in corn, you were fracking and Petišovci and the environment and Slovenia were not interested in anything at all. So you've been to the government, not just you, and the previous governments, but you've done nothing in this area. You didn't stop the fracking. It's not like fracking's been two years ago since the outbreak started. Am I wrong? You know, I'm a little, a little bit surprised how it's possible that once you've come to the opposition, you've become the biggest environmentalists, naturalists, and you've become interested in fracking and breaking the fracking. Fracking is not the result of the government's operation. You know that, you read it a little bit and you'll see what things look like. Since when has hydraulic fracturing been performed in us? Which company does it run? Where else does this work in the world? Of course, things are changing. Scientific knowledge and practice, experience on the ground show their own and, of course, in time then certain things change, but fracking is not two years ago. And I'm really interested and worried, and I'd like to know why you didn't shut down the fracking party before you were at the government, including Levits. That's what I'm interested in. Why didn't you do this before? I'd be very pleased if we'd done this before and now we wouldn't have these problems. That's when you had your chance. When you ruled when you were in the government, you could have sunk into this problem, that is, into a fracking problem, and you could have settled the matter. Now, the Ministry has drawn up a law, and we also know that the company that carries out the fracking is willing to do everything that can be done to keep fracking going. There are lawsuits here, there will be indemnifications, but not because of this government. Not because of this government, but because of your government. And your governments from before because you allowed it. You also allowed the former governments to mine, to open coal mines in Zasav. And also in Lithia in Siterovac. Yeah, look, this is all stuff. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u41	I'm asking for peace in the hall. You'll get a chance to replica for [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u42	At the time of mining, when mining was used, coal was fine, but now there are problems when there are problems left. The same applies to landfills, different landfills, because there was no order because it was done domestically. It's the same thing with that fracking. I wonder why you didn't stop him before. Why didn't you do it? I don't understand. And as I've already said, when there's a bunch of good things in the law on mining, there's a bunch of solutions that are important for the economy, for the environment, for the employees. A bunch of good solutions. And such a law is only to be supported and is also professionally prepared as necessary. But you've only done this fracking, because you haven't done anything about it, but you've just focused on it because it's very populist to talk since you've been in the opposition. Nothing before that. And the Secretary of State has said a few times how it's written in the law, how it can be changed. An amendment can be tabled and so on. It's still a matter of debate, because we're at the beginning. And I believe that, like all other laws, there will be real solutions here that will be good for all. And it is normal to listen to all proposals either by opposition parties or by the economy or by NGOs. And all of this then has to be taken into account, re-debate, and find some common language. And that is then, we get in the law that we have before us today, the solutions that then need to be rethought and adopted or rejected if you are not for such good solutions. And forget about all the good solutions, all those urgent things that need to be changed, and we only talk about fracking all the time, I don't know if it's populism or incompetence or I don't know. I have said what I have read in this law and what some have also presented in their views, and the Secretary of State has already told me not how many times in this law, but we are listening through the same thing. So I'm sure, I'm sure that we'll also be dealing with this problem, which is the one that you're most exposed to, just the ones that haven't done anything about it so far, but really nothing, nothing you've been worried about, and the environment, now these things are being solved by this law. I believe that we will find a common solution and we will also support it in this new and urgently needed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u43	Thank you very much. First of all, I'd like to ask everyone who's in the hall not to disturb their conversation. If you disagree with your views, you have a chance to replicate. No problem, of course, if this is related to the misunderstanding of your debate, otherwise there will be a sharing of time. Now, first of all, I give the floor to Natasha Sukič's procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u44	Thank you, Chairman. I hereby request that the Member apologize for the multitude of fat lies that he has consumed here, because the Levics cannot report the things that are being wet here. We have been working very intensively on these issues all the time, regardless of any government [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u45	Colleague, a procedural proposal is not a compensation for [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u46	And I demand that he stop lying. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u47	Replico. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u48	Yeah, he's lying.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u49	It's not a payback for a replica. It's not a payback for the replica, excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u50	Well, let him apologize for his distasteful lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u51	The procedural proposal is not intended for replication. You no longer have time, wait for the time to be shared, and then you will answer. Rudy Bear has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u52	Replica, yes. Thank you very much. Colleagues from the SDS or the ruling coalition, you've been in power for almost two years. Go down once and take responsibility for these two years and stop repeating what is not or has done the previous governments, the previous, the previous and I don't know what else! You went so far as to discover that we were opening mines in Zasavje. That was 300 years ago! Three hundred years ago, mines opened in Zasavje. That's our fault too, isn't it? Well, now you're here, I doubt it, but what more history will make you difficult. But I would just like to repeat what has been absolutely clear since the beginning – that the Secretary's assurance, how the Government will table the amendment and ban the cracking with it, has absolutely no guarantee that this will go through. But now we've heard how great a solution in marriage is this limited hydraulic fracturing. So it holds what we find in the opposition all the time – that the government has no idea what the coalition is doing in Parliament, but at the same time the coalition in Parliament has no idea what the Government is doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Bear, this was a debate, not a replica, because it was not about his misunderstanding of your debate. [[advertising from the hall]] Look, I'm sorry, that's right. You had a debate and in this part you have been in complete violation of the rules of procedure. As the last one, Nick Prebil has a word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, welcome! The topic that we are discussing today is certainly of paramount importance, especially what I will touch a little later. And before I start, I might go back to history a little bit, because obviously that's always necessary for such questions. We have seen the novels of this law from 2010 until the previous year five times. This government has also changed this law into one of the PKPs, either because of the mitigation of the consequences of the epidemic, and we all know that this is not the case with many other subsets. And when Comrade Doblekar talks about what's good here, I'll tell you what's not good before I go to this famous fracking. In the law you change the ways of keeping mining books, cadastral and mining registers, but forget that your ministers are all shouting after some digitisation and that this matter has been digitized for quite some time. It is a fully digitized mining cadastra, register and mining book, which are an integral part of all of this. So it is ballast, which is unnecessary, so that you can tear yourself up there, what is good and what has been done, and it will not do anything at all. Let's move on. Another worse issue, which is highly controversial from a legal point of view as well, is that you prefer certain concessionaires to others in this law. Well, we've seen this story before, but those who are close to you are preferred, those who don't just lose their rights, their jobs, and something else. But, Your Honor, this is from a constitutional point of view, not only from a marital standpoint, it is extremely controversial. This has been pointed out to you in many municipalities, including in the municipality of Šostjanj and Velenje with a letter that I have here, where you have been clearly warned, and this is also warned in the opposition that you are existing holders of mining rights or that you will in fact give this amendment to the law an additional option, some preference to those who do not yet have these concessions. So you're going to put them in some special legal position, which is constitutionally prohibited, respected colleagues. Indeed, the Constitutional Court has repeatedly explained, both to Members and Members of Parliament and to those who lodge complaints with the Constitutional Court, that the law can change existing rights, which were previously established and those of the law that are still coming. This means, in this case, that this openness of concession rights should be the same for all, carefully – all stakeholders. You, however, allow those who already have concessions and who like them to be over those who do not yet have concession rights to come to them. Surprisingly, you are also interfering with the right to private land if, for example, mining would pass under the land of a certain owner and, of course, you grant these rights to a miner unlimitedly, which means that even in 15 years, when, say, on that land, another owner would be a different owner and would not agree with that, this miner would still be able to mine there without difficulty. So there's quite a few contentious things about this marriage. Well, the key, which, of course, in the LMŠ, we strongly oppose is this continued legal allowing of fracking, which is harmful not only to the environment but also to people. I do not understand that we are or are so blind to the government that you do not understand what this means for society and for those who live there, where this fracking or hydraulic fracturing is also happening. This was pointed out in the Medical Chamber of Slovenia where you were asked to prevent fracking or hydraulic fracturing to the full extent. Many experts at home and abroad warn of harm to people and the environment through this process, but no. We filed the marriage five times, you broke it five times, or with a very small difference, but you broke it. Today, when the law is being treated, where, of course, you are still allowing hydraulic fracturing in its very foundation, you've just invented in there an expression that looks like you're still opposed to it in one piece, but now comes from, but I don't know where, you obviously don't have consistent information between the government and the coalition parties, but you're not saying that because now we're going to ban this matter. Yes, thank God you will, but you know it in the LMŠ and in the opposition we cannot take your word for it, because you have broken that word a number of times. In this National Assembly, you have adopted or not, adopted laws proposed by the Government, which your own government does not respect and does not report to this National Assembly, ignores it, as if it forgets every moment that the National Assembly is the highest rate and is above every single government. And the government is the one responsible for this house, not telling her what to do. In LMŠ, we are advocates of a clean environment. And colleague Doblekar, you say that we have done nothing for the environment, we have done far more for the environment, and people have done more for you even when you were knocked down at the water referendum. That's when we did a lot for the environment. And very much we will do for the environment, and this is also the only subject of this law that should be before us today is a complete ban on fracking. The health of the people and the provision of a healthy living environment I think that, regardless of the political preference in this room, this should be a priority for each party. And I just don't understand what's behind it, except for the money, of course, to prevent you from handling it. We are in a situation where, if I paraphrase, we eat soup and then, this is Slovenia, and we have someone who spits into this soup, and we still eat it. That's kind of what this fracking looks like in our country. I would like to have the will of those people who live in these areas, that is the first thing, and the second thing for everything else, that we stop harming the nature of the home, and not least, that some other countries could follow suit. It's going around. I don't know when we're going to realize that this is the only planet we can live on. So, I still hope that this amendment, which is also being drafted by the opposition, will be adopted and that, despite these efforts, despite the six in line, we will succeed and that the matter will be closed for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Replica, Boris Doblekar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Yes, I need to replicate my colleague from LMSH, the MP who mentioned me, and my statement that he obviously misunderstood, or maybe he staged it on purpose. And by the way, I didn't say that you didn't do anything for the environment, but I said that you didn't do anything for the Frequent, which is, as a result, that you did nothing for the environment, and I don't know how many times I asked, but I haven't got any answers or any replicas, which you're, respected, even in LMŠ, Levi, SD, SAB. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u57	Replica, colleague Doblekar [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u58	Yeah, did you do it when you were on the government? [[…]] That's what I said, and I specifically pointed out that nothing was done and done for the environment at the time, too, because of that.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u59	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u60	And that the word "freaking" has already repeated a thousand times today, nothing else. But when you were in government, when you had the chance to make a difference. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u61	Comrade Doblekar, please reply, not a discussion [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u62	Yeah, well, you didn't do anything, and that, right, that's when the Member of Parliament mentioned, and I said that this government and the Secretary of State made a law that will also solve it and solve all of these things that were once seduced, now, in, well, we're looking for solutions and working for the good of the economy. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u63	Comrade Doblekar [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u64	And people. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u65	I'll take your word for it. [[…]] We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which the Secretary of State, the representative of the Government, gets the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Vice President. Now, there was something else to add, perhaps here, Member Prebil, with regard to the arrangements for collecting the management of the data in the field of mining, what you said about digitisation. Mr. Prebil, I'm talking to you. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u67	Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u68	I'm just telling you, let me answer you about digitization, mining books and the like. Already in the law in force, and also on the world web was published a mining book and was made available to the public by everyone, I will say, data on the acquirers [[?]] Areas with concessions and so on, concessionaires, well, with this novel this set, I will say, published data, we will extend to all concession contracts, to all notifications, doses of “concession”, photos of acquisitions [[?]] the space, so that the public can actually get to know more fully where and what is going on in each municipality or local community. We also add proposals for introducing electronic transmission modules and complementing applications, notifications and the like. Now, maybe I haven't made myself clear yet, and I'll say it again. An amendment to Article 1 was tabled yesterday, concerning large-scale hydraulic fracturing. Now, it is proposed that the extensive hydraulic fracturing, where thousands of cubic metres of water are pushed into the well to the breaking phase or 10,000 cubic or more cubic water throughout the process, is deleted. [[Incomprehensible]] So, with the amendment proposed, the amendment changes the law by prohibiting any hydraulic fracturing, with a view to exploring or exploiting hydrocarbons, so there is no longer a need to define the concept of large-scale hydraulic fracturing. If I was previously misunderstood in my implementation, I was merely explaining the content of the amendment of the law, what a large hydraulic break is at this point. I have given you the amendment by which this provision of Article 10.1 is deleted. And then, in the first paragraph of Article 6, the text that reads, I quote “Carbohydrates with extensive hydraulic fracturing or,” is replaced by “Hydratic fracturing hydrocarbons”. Therefore, the amendment to be proposed prohibits any hydraulic fracturing for the purpose of exploration or exploitation of hydrocarbons irrespective of the extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u69	Thank you very much. You reported discussers who wanted it, you got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I see it's an interest. If he also wants to discuss a government representative, please report by pressing the microphone switch. In this case, you'll get the last word. I'm asking you to sign up. Five people reported. First he gets the word Violet Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, chairman. We spoke five times about the ban on fracking in this National Assembly, and five times the coalition or coalition MPs rejected our proposals. Therefore, I find it unacceptable to hear today that we have done nothing. What are we supposed to do? LMSH is in Parliament for the third year, we for the seventh year. Fourth, first term. So reading something that happened 200, 300 years ago is really unacceptable and really insane. But we keep reminding ourselves of environmental problems. We also warned of Anhovo, then we had a meeting about a biogas plant in Montenegro, where the polluter Petrol severely destroys the endemite of black human fish. Every time the right hand and the government Members rejected our proposals. It is said that in Slovenia, in fact, they do not have the authority of the people, but they do have the capital. And here is a very thorough violation of the Constitution. Now in France, if this fracking could have been banned in 2011, if the cracking could have been banned in Ireland in 2016, if in the United Kingdom, which so well exploits our options and put our pants down, I will say, 2019 could have put in place a complete moratorium on the implementation of the fracking if they could have banned it in Germany if they could have banned it in Bulgaria already in 2012, why can't we do so for God's sake in Slovenia? Because you're saying they're going to do everything they can to get the fracking done. You're afraid of lawsuits, yes, and we've also seen that we would do anything to make this cracking happen to us, obviously in a third world country where they don't care about people or the environment when they threatened the environmental minister. We should have all our alarms ringing by then. And someone who's a state-created man should have fired a corporation like that. And now you're explaining that in this new Mining Act there will be a ban on large-scale cracking. Please. Where is this arbitral border for extensive cracking? And if the medical board puts it to your heart that fracking is dangerous to human health, that it is unacceptable, but I don't know, I don't understand how you still don't want to hear it and you're working for a foreign corporation instead of the Slovenes who live in that dangerous, dangerous health environment. And this is repeated over and over again, because it's not just about the Petišovci. Like I said, a similar story is in Anhove, a similar story is in the White Land and elsewhere, and you don't care. I don't know if we're gonna eat on a destroyed planet at the end of the euro and who's gonna benefit from it. This amendment now simplifies the process of abandonment of exploitation. An interesting application for a decision on the cessation of rights and obligations of mining rights will no longer have to adapt to the revised mining project of the remedial action. We'll destroy everything and we'll go, and we don't care who's gonna take care of the sick people, who's gonna treat them, how what's going to happen, nothing. You make the most of it and you leave. In short, the right to a healthy living environment and the health of people is weighed in the prohibition of freaking, so you refer to the importance of protecting property, on which their everyday survival depends, not to say that Slovenia is advertised as a green destination, but also through climate change and the loss of biodiversity is linked to the possibility of human survival on the planet Earth at all and on the other hand to the profit motive where we are and how anyone in this National Assembly, what the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia places on them capital over man and over his healthy living environment, is a question to which we will be able to answer on 24 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word is Robert Pavlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u72	Thank you, Chairman. When there are no arguments, of course, Members always resort to populism, but that someone today seems to me to be populism and that we did not, when we did nothing to the Government, but I will not use the word directly because this place does not deserve it, but colleague Doblekar Minister Leben in the Government of Marjana Šarca received threats that gave him police protection when he addressed this topic. They threatened him and his family, if that's not relevant, then I don't know what I'm not gonna use populism, but I'm going to banalize the word to absurdity so that you can understand why we're against the law, even though in some parts it has good solutions. Hypothetically, today the government has brought into this room a law that has 100 million euros at its disposal and we decide this law to confirm that we choose 110 people in Slovenia. We give hundreds of these to each million euros, and we close them for 10 years. Or is it because a hundred people would get each million euros and now we're going to close 10 of them? It's the same absurdity in this law. Fraking is harmful. There's no safe freakin' doesn't exist right now no. Even if there is a whole series of good proposals to resolve what and some of the proposals that are catastrophic, it is the responsibility of Members to reject this, at least by those Members who give something to actually work for people and for health and that there are no compromises here. Not me with populism, not me with candy, not me with boni, boni and candy. Throwing sand in your eyes how great it is oh and that's actually the first reading. A colleague calls for corporateism, but constructiveness is good, or you think that Luna and I have fallen in the last two years. Professional services have been working all night to work with Members of the amendment for the entire series of laws at the end because we know what the results of the series will be and now we should believe you. Yeah, I'm not gonna believe you, but you know why I'm going to tell you, because in the background, there could be the same model that was on the last board that we ran. You will propose an amendment, the Members will confirm it. Now, if you say yes, it means you've already agreed with them and you're prejudging the decision of the National Assembly, which is even more harmful than anything we've seen today. Because this means that all the security mechanisms in this country are falling off. You put the amendment on the table, the committee will be rejected, maybe even the law will be rejected, and we will be back to square one. You know, trust has to be earned, and maybe you've had it before, and I don't know, listen to the grounds, I heard. What kind of grounds? The economy. Just like you've been listening to the problem of independent entrepreneurs, accountants, the meeting industry, it's not an economy for you, no. How you listened to people. Yeah, people in Petišovci are anti-fracking, and a lot of other people are against it. How we have to listen to the NGO, I even heard it. Yes, it is this ministry that wanted to take the legal interest of all NGOs in obtaining environmental permits in the spring of 2020. You know, memory is a bad thing. There's a lot more to come up with.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Next up is Nick Prebil.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Just one more thing before we finish this topic, because I see that there is no desire to understand each other without not understanding each other, but there is no desire to understand each other. Comrade Doblekar, I will answer you in a very similar manner to your colleague Pavšič. When you ask the opposition, what did you do? As soon as the Government of Marjan Šarc took up the mandate, the Minister of Environment of Leben began to take up the matter. He initiated procedures to prevent hydraulic fracturing and, as you know, I know that you know that, because of this threat came to him personally, his family, and these are not just threats on top of him, these are threats to his life or after he took his life. As a result, he was also granted police protection or police protection. That's the first thing. The second thing is, unfortunately, the procedure has not come to an end because the government of Marjana Sharca has fallen and we know what the legislative procedure is. Come in. Well, and then we, honourable Mr. Doblekar, five times, today is six times today, trying to make a law, not just with something, to ban the matter by law. And always the votes were cast solely and solely because of the SDS party, because of the NSI party and SMC party, or in particular now. And Desus, I don't know how he voted. I won't put my hand in the fire. Just proudly, this matter is not settled, not because there would be no desire or attempts from the opposition. So please let us be correct and I think that we all deserve to give the information right. Second of all, one more time. It's not enough problems right now, it's just a book or just a cracking, and other things are problematic in this marriage. The first is that which I have already said that you are enforcing some new legal status which is prohibited by the Constitution, which is not a legally appropriate legal norm because you prioritize certain concessionaires before others. You prioritize those who already have a concession before those who might still get it. And that's not just what we're warning you here, that's what experts are warning you, that's what the municipalities are warning you, but because I know you don't like to hear experts, because just as we saw during the epidemic, you just shut them down and take the means away from them when you go so far that you just don't like it. So that's the first thing. And the other thing is again. With the new 150th Article, you extend mining rights again to those same concessionaires that you like, even if they do not have the right to perform mining works. What do we have in this country? Someone who does not have the right to exercise something gives him the right to exercise it. And that's one of the things that's problematic in this marriage. And, Madam Secretary of State, we have been discussing this for almost two hours now, for more than two hours, we are discussing this point and I am now discussing this amendment that you are talking about. We will vote very soon, obviously. I don't know, but your promises don't dissuade me from discussing what I think in certain laws. However, I still hope that with today's adoption of the law, which, according to your votes, will still be fracking as such, which we have opposed in the opposition from the very beginning, will also be completely banned, because, if we allow it, finally, foreign countries, foreign companies are doing it in Slovenia, leaving the pigs here and the money is being drawn to them. I think we just have to care about the future, not just us, but also those who come after us, so that they can live in a clean environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u75	Thank you very much. And Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u76	Comrade Doblekar, now you will hear everything Left has done when you so fatly laid those lies before you to burn your ears when a man listens to you. Minister Leben was in the previous government, and Levica is Minister Lebnu, and I have announced that she wants the cracking to be banned. And Minister Leben made it clear that he would do anything to prevent the cracking from happening and he was doing it. And Ascent Resources was threatening him, him and his family. Yeah, that's it, yeah, you guys go ahead and fuck around. [[…]] They've threatened and you're doing business with them, my dear Member. That's what you do business with, isn't it? With those who threaten our minister. You don't care!? So stop fooling around. Besides, here you're talking like, if, 20 years ago, you started a story with this concessionaire, why should we end it now? Yeah, because it's time for this story to end. Because it has come to knowledge and events all over the world, calling for cracking to be banned in more and more countries or a moratorium to be signed on. That's why! And because in Groningen, which has the same soil composition as the Petišovci there are earthquakes and there also 200 companies had to climb with fracking. 200, not one imported Ascent Resources that threatens our ministers. And if you were really worried that we wouldn't be sued by Ascent Resources, they'd let this corporation's concession run out this May. What did you do? You planted in the PKP, be careful, in the antikron package you planted the possibility that the concession would be extended by 18 months. And if these tricks are accepted, you're really gonna give us a legal basis for Ascent Resources finally suing us. We'd let their concession run out, dot. Not that you extended their permit for 18 months in order to buy time to gain an environmental assessment and to start doing a less extensive fraction than you call it. Blah, blah, blah. And you, SDS and NSI will have to answer to the people in Prekmurje what you're going to do. You, no one else. Because we're working hard to stop the cracking once and for all. And we're doing it in Levica, and you're not going to pretend that's not true. But as for you saying we're only talking about cracking, it's not true. If you'd listened to my opening position, I've been listing for more than three minutes what's wrong with this marriage, more than three minutes in my opening position. But since you're not interested in my introductory position, you're just making a point. But you always mess with the same things. I already know what you're gonna say. That's extreme. I mean, I don't care if you insult me, but you actually insult people, insult the municipality of Lendava, who called for the cracking to stop. [[…]] You insult the local population out there asking for the cracking to be banned. You're insulting environmental organisations. Anyway, because your boss just a few days ago, a whole list of non-governmental outlets that are based on your logic, because you have a brilliant logic about how some society works. This is obviously for you to erase everything you don't like. Right, that would be you, you would have wiped the calf out a little bit, and they would have cleaned it up, but they wouldn't have said much about the Ascent Resources that threatened our minister, what do you care, because they weren't your ministers, right, by the way, by the way. And you who are such patriots do it. And then you punch each other in the chest how much you love this country. Oh, you love capital! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u77	Thank you very much. As the last one gets the word, Secretary of State Blaž Kosorok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u78	Thank you, President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, at times today's debate, the debate has been argued, not at times. I am pleased that many or even members of the opposition have recognized that there are many good things in the novelty of the law. And I think that it deserves a vote, that the matter goes forward, that it is discussed on the committee and that you can continue to clear up on the committee of things. The proposed amendment to the Mining Act, however, eliminates, as I said in the introductions, the various systemic shortcomings that have been detected or contained a basic legal solution. Some areas are additionally and are also being re-ordered. In this way, we are correcting some of the mistakes that the existing legislation has made. We regulate or deregulation a wide range of areas, or we redefine them completely. Some notions, some simplifications, some administrative obstacles have been removed and, above all, the fact that they are more and more prominent offences that are occurring in practice. As far as the amendment is concerned, I have made it clear that I think there will then be an opportunity on the committee to discuss this further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Agenda item - Proposal for a resolution on the National Programme for Culture. The draft resolution was tabled by the Government. To further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to Dr. Friedl Jarc, State Secretary of the Ministry of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u80	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture in Article 10 provides that the national programme for culture is a cultural policy strategy based on the historical status of culture, which establishes the role and public interest of culture in the development of Slovenia and the Slovenian people, defines the areas of culture in which cultural goods are provided as public goods and provides guidance in the field of investment in public cultural infrastructure. Although the legal basis is therefore necessary and compulsory, the previous ministers have failed to implement the procedure for preparing and approving a new strategic document on culture, without which the area of culture has been an area since 2018. The motion for a resolution on the national programme for culture 2022-2029, which is ahead of you, has begun to be prepared within the mandate of the Minister of Magi. Zoran Pozniča in 2019 by the appointment of a special commission. A series of public debates on culture across Slovenia have taken place and have created ten key points that the new proposal should take into account. The draft resolution on the national programme for culture was submitted as part of the handover to the current Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, on 16 March 2020. After receipt, it was reviewed by the expert services of the Ministry of Culture, which had previously not been included in the preparation of the draft. They have also drawn up their comments and aligned the document with the legislation in force. Due to the covida-19 epidemic of the implementation of the Law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes in culture, a record increase in cultural budgets, in particular for 2021 and the inclusion by ECA of funds approved under the Recovery and Resistance Plan, the document was submitted to the National Council for Culture in August, followed by another month in public hearing. Most of the comments that were of a general nature have been taken into account; some will be taken into account in the action plan adopted by the Government following the approval of the NPK in the National Assembly. The Government confirmed the proposal at its 107th regular session 17. 12. 2021. The document was also discussed by the Committee on Culture. And the current proposal before you also takes into account some of the amendments proposed by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The mission of the National Programme for Culture 2022-2029 is to establish Slovenian culture as an important social factor that enables the development, growth and visibility of Slovenian national substance both at home and in the world and ensures the conditions for creativity, freedom of expression and the authoritarian reflection of an individual. The priority objective is to make culture aware as a value that promotes creative potentials, enabling individuals to develop their personality development, freedom of expression, the acquisition of new knowledge and experience, the establishment of human interpersonal relations and social ethics, and to realize as a value that at the same time develops respect for the achievements of the Slovenian people and the independent state, as well as dialogue openness to the neighbouring peoples of Europe and the world, which does not weaken our culture, but rather enriches, complements and strengthens it. The main strategic objectives are to strengthen the role of culture as a connecting and merging force in public life, to ensure cultural pluralism, freedom of expression, equal opportunities for creation, to take care of Slovenian language and to strengthen its role within the single Slovenian cultural space, including the care of Slovenians in place and around the world, to ensure the preservation and development of the cultural identity of both indigenous national communities, the Roma community, members and members of other ethnic groups and members of vulnerable groups. Further promote strong inter-sectoral integration of culture with other sectors such as economy, tourism, ensuring sustainable, efficient and transparent [[sign for the end of the debate]] culture financing system, reducing administrative barriers, education and training, accelerating digitalisation and introducing new technologies, ensuring accessibility and building of public cultural infrastructure, promoting Slovenian cultural heritage, enhancing the inclusion of the population, decentralising Slovenian cultural space, strengthening the presence of cultural content in the media and internationally [[sign for the end of the debate]] promote Slovenian culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Culture as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Violeta Tomić to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, chairman. At its 45th urgent meeting, the Committee on Culture considered a motion for a Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2022-2029 submitted by the Government for its consideration and adoption. The Committee was provided with the following material: a motion for a resolution, an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion by the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, a request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, a position and initiative on the proposal for a resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2022-2029 by the Glossary – the Union of Culture and Nature of Slovenia and the amendments tabled by the SDS, New Slovenia, specifically and the amendments by the MEP Sam Bevk. In addition to the representatives of the Ministry, the Vice-President of the National Council for Culture, the President of the pardon, Ursula Cetinski and Polona Torkar from the Association Society participated in the meeting. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture said that this was a strategic document in the field of cultural policy, and the document is prepared for an eight-year period in contrast to the transitional national cultural programmes prepared for a four-year period. The Action Plan will be prepared after the resolution has been adopted. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the amendments tabled by the SDS, NSI, took into account in particular the comments made by the SPS in its opinion, and to a greater extent took due account of them. The motion for a resolution was also addressed by the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supports the motion for a resolution. The representative of the National Council for Culture said, inter alia, that it is very bad for the cultural field, that Slovenia has been without a resolution for four years, as this is also the basis for public tendering in a culture where public funds and subsidies are being allocated. The representative of the Association pointed out that the motion for a resolution reflected a problematic attitude towards self-employed and non-governmental organisations in culture. It is a reduction and a numerical shift in the number of self-employed people in culture and in the non-governmental sector. The motion for a resolution would need further coordination for both non-governmental organisations and self-employed people in culture. The debate said that the motion for a resolution summed up about 90 per cent of the text, which had already been drawn up by the previous minister's ministry. The new content relates mainly to an epidemic and content that could be defined as an outdated view of the cultural sector, which focuses primarily on national identity. Cultural policy should follow the profession and its guidelines and maintain a neutral attitude towards ideas, spiritual and aesthetic orientations. The motion for a resolution does not improve the position of self-employed and non-governmental organisations in culture, but it does bring about flexible, flexible forms of employment and exacerbates the status of self-employed in culture. The non-governmental sector remains at the brink of investment in culture and the document gives greater emphasis to institutional culture. The preparation of the document would therefore make sense to postpone it to a new mandate. On the contrary, representatives of the SDS and New Slovenia supported the motion for a resolution, which should contain strategic guidance and a plan for the development of Slovenian culture with the aim of preserving as a nation the cultural identity, language and national awareness. They highlighted the increase in funds for culture and investment in the area of immovable cultural heritage, which are more evenly distributed throughout Slovenia. Therefore, the adoption of NPK 2022 to 2029 should be a priority for all. After the discussion on the individual chapters of the motion for a resolution, the Committee adopted amendments to the SDS, NSI and in particular. The Committee voted on all chapters of the motion for a resolution jointly and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the supplementary motion for a resolution, which includes all the amendments adopted, is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Following the presentation, you're standing by the parliamentary groups. Only Bevk will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! We are looking forward to the motion for a resolution on the national programme in culture 2022-2029. This is, or should be, the government's strategic document on this proposal even uncritically states that the document corresponds to the emerging situation of the cultural world, due to the consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic and that most of the comments made by the interested cultural public have been taken into account. In the past period, it has repeatedly pointed out that cultural areas among all, due to the epidemic, have been plagued by particularly major challenges without a strategic document for four years. It is also true that, at the time of the coming of the current government's term of office at the Ministry of Culture of the new Minister, Dr Vask Simoniti, and the team, at the end of March 2020, the draft resolution on the national programme for culture was already being prepared. This was created under the leadership of the then minister of mags, with great effort to coordinate and communicate with the stakeholders. Zoran Poznicz. In addition, the Law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture for the period 2021 to 2026, amounting to EUR 123 million, adopted by the National Assembly at the end of 2019. This was a legacy even better spoken of as a traveling companion, with which any coming minister could be satisfied. This document, if I may put it that way, was produced in the widest possible public coordination with stakeholders by reading a proposal at the National Council for Culture in early 2020 and thus prepared for the process of hearing reception in the National Assembly. With the sincere intention of adopting this most important guideline and compass in culture, the resolution, together with the action plan, could be responding to cultural problems, even more so, the document could, if the need appeared, be upgraded today by responding to the problems that emerged in culture at the time of the epidemic. Unfortunately, at the Ministry for a good year and more, the current minister preferred to argue more or less with cultural creators, and in some ways during the epidemic, when cultural life had virtually stopped, to deny even the payment for the work that had already been done and to suspend it, and to expect the understanding and active resolution of the problems arising from the epidemic of the world dimension, when reading the resolution, we can find that the current Government, at the end of its mandate without dialogue with the stakeholders, had sent a modified and non-consistent document to the procedure. We also note that since the resolution already prepared under the mandate of the previous Minister, almost 90% of the content has been summarised, and changes or additional materials relate mainly to the epidemic, and unfortunately to the content that could be defined as an outdated view of the cultural sector, a strategic view of the future of culture in art, which should be the first mission of the Ministry when preparing the new proposal. However, the discursion of denial of expertise, independence and aesthetic orientations is noted, as the cultural development of culture will be followed by the culture, the art and creativity that will help create Slovenian, national, patriotic and national consciousness in the next eight years. However, a key understanding of the resolution's reading document is that the Ministry of Culture has been abandoning the idea of changes and updates to the current cultural system over the next eight years and is only interested in non-essential additions. Social Democrats believe that the resolution on the national programme under the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture is conceived by not even presenting key cultural breakthroughs over the next eight years and how these should be financed. Nor does the resolution provide a solution to how to break through the frozen state in the cultural system and cultural policy and how to overcome the many problems that plague the cultural day after the health crisis. Despite the need to have a national cultural programme for the following years, a question or document is asked in all its hearings, as it does not respond to the key challenges ahead, is inoperable and survive. Social Democrats cannot and will not support such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello! We will not support the proposal of the National Programme for Culture in Levika, because it is inefficient, resourceful, destructive and forgets about the key stakeholders in the creation of cultural landscapes, cultural organisations and workers. First. The NPK is not a law, it is a strategic document that draws the direction of culture and art development and the way culture will be assisted by the state. What it will finance, how and what content it will give priority and opportunity to. The current authority places on the list of priority objectives for the development of culture between 2022 and 2029 the strengthening of the role of culture as a connecting and merging force in public life, in particular in the design of Slovenian national identity, strengthening national awareness, social ethics, dialogue, mutual respect regardless of gender, generational and social differences and political affiliation. Ensuring cultural pluralism, free expression and equal opportunities for creation. In Levica, we answer with a question, you're kidding. The current authority is at the core of its own being a diametric contradiction of all sweets, which are listed in its strategic document, unconnected, without moral and ethical principles, without respect for any other, especially those with a different political foregleam, condensing the field of freedom of expression and equal opportunities for creation and so on and so on. But we're going to the document. First, let us look at the current political environment in which the NPK was formed. More to the point, the political environment created by the current government, that NPK programmes could themselves be drawn up as sad as they are. The Ministry of Culture holds the Slovenian Democratic Party – a political society that has spread cultural landscape to impoverishment in the last two years since the frenzy of power. Culturers, i.e. the engine of culture, are exhausted and at the edge of survival, the financing of the most visible independent organizations and culture decimated, the most recognized ambassadors of Slovenian cultural creation abroad with out-of-the-way infrastructure and without allowance. Statuses and thus survival to the power of critical creators deleted. The public press agency without funding, the daily political broadcasts on the national media, whose editors and leaders, well, this is purely fresh, are not a state of government, abolished or, at best, with a diluted frequency and moved to less viewed channels and deadlines. Self-employed in culture, top survival creators deliver food. On the other hand, the media from the propaganda networks of ruling parties shine under the transfusions of the advertising contracts of the ministries, religious servants are without any proof of status, work and success provided directly from the state budget, and boys who welcome the character and work of Adolf Hitler in the free time on the Prešeren market, recognised by the status of special importance, and at the national celebrations cheer Chuki. This is the reality of the cultural landscape envisioned by the authorities of Janez Janša and Vask Simoniti. And in this reality, the government is committed to directing culture with strategic documents as well as the National Programme for Culture 2022-2029. Due to such and different circumstances, the country today can indeed boast a record growth in GDP, with a record budget, and consequently a record in the cultural budget. Prognosis for the future is worse, but the hope that by 2029 they will remain financially friendly to culture remains. This also offers a brilliant opportunity for es culture to think and the process of reflection not only does politics and officialism, but it invites culture only – workers. In fact, the NPK proposal was created without civil dialogue. Writing has flowed in a well - known way of ruling [[sign for the end of the debate]] Coalitions. The document was produced in the narrow circle of the party's obedient organisation not to involve the general public in its preparation. It's over. The only solution for culture and its survival at this time is elections. When the cultural sector is created by Levits, we will adopt a new NPK, which will be made with the broad support of culture and culture, that is, all those who live and without political ideology or client propaganda. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Government representatives, if you think that culture and art depend on your programs, strategies and graces, you are wrong. The slogan is true Culture lives. Culture is also looking forward to April 24th. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Tadeja Šuštar Zalar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Culture is what defines a person in his attitude toward the environment he lives on, either natural or social. It is his way of developing, reshaping, complementing, rewarding and caring for the growth of his soul by his being in the world and on it with his creativity, imagination, humanistic mission and spiritual thought. We have before us a motion for a resolution of the National Programme for Culture from 2022 to 2029. Based on an analysis of the past achievements of Slovenian culture as a basis for the formation of Slovenian national and national consciousness and the preservation of national memory. Its mission is to establish Slovenian culture as an important development factor and to connect more closely with other sectors, with the aim of co-forming, linked, sustainable, an awareness-raising culture. Priority development measures include the renovation and construction of public cultural infrastructure, the introduction of new technologies and modern approaches, including digitisation, the establishment of a sustainable and stable funding system and the strengthening of the involvement of the population in cultural developments. They are identified as priority development objectives in the field of public institutions. Strengthening the role and ensuring sustainable conditions for the functioning of public institutions as fundamental agents of Slovenian culture through guidelines and objectives that are transparent and coordinated with each of the national cultural programmes, while reducing administrative burdens and ensuring long-term stable funding. For the optimal performance of the public service, it is necessary to switch to more flexible forms of employment related to the term of office of the Director or to a certain period of time in the area of permanent employment for an indefinite period of time. It is necessary to ensure easier transition between workplaces and the possibility of retraining in the artistic professions with the benefit of the internship. The adoption of the Law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture and its implementation of budgets 2021 and 2022 makes it possible to implement urgent investments in public cultural infrastructure. Special priority is given to the Slovenian language and its numerous titles as the basic identification point of the nation and all its carriers, including Slovenes and Slovenians, in place and around the world. The National Programme for Culture is also in line with the Resolution on the National Programme for Language Policy 2021-2025. The last resolution of the National Programme for Culture was in force from 2014 to 2017, so we were out of the programme for 5 years. The resolution under consideration makes sense to continue the last resolution in accordance with the changed circumstances and cultural needs identified. It introduces some new guidelines and content that respond to the challenges of the present and seeks to anticipate the development of future developments and needs in the field of culture. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we are pleased that after five years a new resolution is being adopted that responds to today's and future challenges to culture and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, good afternoon! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The draft resolution on the national programme for culture is a central strategic state document on culture. Despite its importance, Slovenia has not had a valid national programme of culture for six years. The saga shall be drawn all the way from 2017 when the then applicable resolution has expired. Although there were new proposals in place at the time, it was not real or legal. We have to be honest with the enthusiastic culturers, they didn't accept any. During this year's treatment, we could have heard nothing better than nothing. However, in 2017, it was possible to hear of the resolution presented that it was more of a year without a strategic document than having such a bad one, but a year had passed too quickly and another five new years had accumulated. The adoption of a new resolution has become a necessity so long ago. Many of the defined objectives in the resolution are both welcome and necessary, but we fear that they will be threatened with staying more simply on paper. Let me point out one of the goals that we find difficult to achieve under this government. I quote: “Ensure cultural pluralism, freedom of expression and equal opportunities for creation and for cultural diversity in the establishment of equal opportunities regardless of sex, age, social status or other conditions.” Who does this government and this minister seem to think is capable of practicing true pluralism? Talking about the pursuit of cultural pluralism in this mandate is ironic, provocative, almost insulting. For this government uses virtually every tool at its disposal or that it seizes to enforce its values, its views on the world, its beliefs. For example, the tendering policies of the ministries in this mandate are an example of such behaviour. Let us just remember where the Diary and Work did not receive funds after many years if I expose only these two officers and why, because they did not define what editorial mechanisms will ensure regular and objective and balanced representation of the political action and positions of individual organisations and individuals. And when there are no such tools, he creates them. Let us just remember the STA case when the Government set a gradual takeover of public media for one of its priority projects and the simultaneous construction of a parallel, government-friendly media empire, and it was both legal and decision-making by the Supreme Court in charge. Since the STA was unable to cope with the legal restrictions, it went against its financial exhaustion and destruction without compromise and shame. And such a government is supposed to welcome pluralism of any kind. It's unprecedented singularism. Even if the objectives set out in the resolution can be confirmed, we trust the Government to truly implement them. For a very illustrative example that justifies our mistrust is, for example, a project to rebuild SNG Drama Ljubljana. On the 53rd page of the resolution, the review of key investments in public cultural infrastructure owned by the State places the renewal of Drama first, with part being defined for the expected start of the year 2022. The procedures necessary for the reconstruction were completely halted under the “symonistration” and ended even with the resignation of the director of Ljubljana’s Drama. It creates concern that the draft action plan on its implementation is followed by the adoption of the resolution. It needs to be specified and translated into tangible plans, in principle, objectives and framework orientations. It's supposed to be. However, given that the action plan is not confirmed by the National Assembly but only by the Government, we fear that the current Government would take very much of the manoeuvre and allow itself to interpret its objectives in accordance with [[sign for the end of the debate]] with their intentions and views on culture. It is therefore justified to ensure that the Government bypasses both the professional public and the document itself when adopting the plan. There's no reason to trust. On the one hand, the urgency of the new resolution and the relevant action plan, on the other hand, all warnings and indications of a lack of resolution. Let me mention some more; overcrowding, understated, under-addressing systemic deficiencies [[sign for the end of the debate]] an existing cultural model. Especially among all the above-mentioned outputs, the inappropriate treatment of the non-governmental sector and self-employed in culture must not be forgotten of the excessive ideology which has nothing to look for in such a document. We cannot devote our support to the SAB Group in its resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Position of the Group specifically on the presentation of Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! The long-awaited national programme for culture is finally ahead of us, and it addresses a number of measures for the next eight-year period until 2029. This is a country's strategic document, which, irrespective of current separation, should support the development of diversity and the preservation of our cultural heritage. We believe that the proposed measures in the proposal under consideration ensure this, as well as allowing our cultural space to preserve its diversity and visibility beyond the borders of our country. The Resolution on the National Programme for Culture sets a number of priorities among which to highlight only a few of these: strengthening the role of culture as an integration and integration force in public life, focusing on the creation of Slovenian national identity, strengthening national awareness, social ethics, dialogue, mutual respect regardless of gender, generational and social differences and political affiliation; ensuring cultural pluralism, freedom of expression and equal opportunities for creation and for cultural diversity in the establishment of equal opportunities regardless of personal circumstances; caring for Slovenian language and strengthening the role and importance of Slovenian language within the single Slovenian cultural space and in the international environment, including the care for the language and culture of Slovenes in place and around the world. It is also important to mention the cross-cutting of culture, in particular with the economy, tourism, education, social and family, and the presence of cultural content within the policies of other sources. The problems with an interdisciplinary approach resulting from inter-sectoral coordination, reduced to a minimum, are something that other actors face in the preparation of legislation and programmes that affect different areas. We therefore welcome the placement of this content in the new national programme for culture. The establishment of a sustainable, efficient, stable and transparent system of cultural financing is also a very important objective. The aim of enhancing the involvement of the population in cultural development, the development of a cultural culture and the provision of cultural and artistic education as lifelong learning is certainly something that helps to strengthen our cultural consciousness. Some of the priority objectives and actions of the National Programme for Culture will also require legislative changes. We want this to happen, and we want to find a consensus for change, including in the field of media law, cultural heritage protection and the management of cultural monuments. Finally, a few words are intended for investment in public cultural infrastructure and for the integrated preservation of cultural monuments in state ownership. We are pleased that many key objects are included on this list of investments, including: Slovenian National Theatre, Drama Ljubljana, Natural History Museum of Slovenia, Archive of the Republic of Slovenia, Historical Archive of Ljubljana, Historical Archive of Celje, Landscape Archive of Maribor. And that I will not list all the objects, because they are all very important for public cultural heritage, let me mention the concern for rural infrastructure, which we welcome and expose to the renovation of the castle of Sneznik, the castle of Socerb, the castle of Dornava and many others. The draft resolution on the national programme for culture for the period 2022-2029 will be supported in particular by the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u94	Good-bye! In the SDS Group, we are pleased that the Ministry of Culture has prepared a resolution on the national programme for culture for the period 2022-2029. The previous national programme had already expired in 2017 and 2018, and since then we have been waiting for a new national programme. Minister Poznic has already set up a group that has started preparations and the work has then continued in this mandate and before us is a document that will map the development of Slovenian culture in all segments for the next decade. The mission of the national programme of culture is to establish Slovenian culture as an important social factor that enables the development, growth and visibility of Slovenian national identity both at home and in the world and ensures the conditions for creativity, freedom of expression and reflection of an individual. To achieve this goal, it is also linked to other sectors, with the aim of creating a creative, integrated and sustainable direction for a democratic society. The main objectives of the new national programme for culture are to implement the importance of culture for the identity of the people. So we want to raise awareness in the public about the contribution and importance of culture to the social progress and welfare of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenia and Slovenians in place and around the world. One of the objectives is to ensure cultural pluralism, freedom of expression and equal opportunities for creation. We want to strengthen the role and importance of Slovenian language within the single Slovenian cultural space. One of the objectives is to preserve and develop cultural identity, indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities, Roma communities, members of ethnic groups and to strengthen support for the implementation and promotion of cultural activities of members and members of vulnerable groups in the Republic of Slovenia. Culture must also be linked to other areas. It is necessary to ensure adequate funding and effective management. Education and training in order to acquire key competences. We also want to digitise and introduce new technologies and modern approaches. It is important to build an urgent public cultural infrastructure. With the help of heritage, we want to contribute to quality of life and to a more connected society, to accelerate the sustainable development of Slovenia and to improve the social attitude towards our heritage. The main strategic objectives of the resolution on the national programme for culture are: to strengthen the role of culture as a connecting and merging force in public life, in particular in the design of Slovenian national identity, patriotic and nationalist consciousness and social ethics. Ensure cultural pluralism, freedom of expression and equal opportunities for creation. Take care of the Slovenian language and strengthen the role and importance of the Slovenian language within the unique Slovenian cultural space and in the international environment, including the care of Slovenians in place and around the world. To ensure the preservation and development of the cultural identity of the Hungarian and Italian national communities, the Roma Community, ethnic groups, immigrants and vulnerable groups. Promote inter-sectoral integration of culture, in particular with the economy, tourism and education, and ensure the presence of cultural content within policies of other sources. Ensure the establishment of a sustainable, efficient and transparent system of cultural financing. Take into account the current situation and development prospects in the cultural sector and create conditions for its adaptability to change and development by reducing administrative barriers to education and training. To accelerate digitisation and the introduction of new technologies and modern approaches. Ensure the modernisation and construction of the necessary public infrastructure. In this regard, the National Programme for Culture reviews key public infrastructure investments owned by the State. Many of these years have been waiting for adequate financial support. In accordance with the available resources in the annual budget, the Ministry of Culture will also carry out one, two or more annual calls and calls for public infrastructure investment in municipal property. In the last two years, there have been many investments from this title in cultural halls and homes in rural and urban areas. A positive opinion was presented by the National Council for Culture on a proposal for a document. The National Programme for Culture has also been supported by the State Council. In the SDS Group, we will support the draft resolution on the national programme for culture for the period 2022-2029.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Lidija Dijak Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u96	Good-bye! The first national cultural programmes have many times been marked by the strong penetration and originality of views on the design of basic cultural policies and the determination of the scope of activities in the field of culture and art, which will receive State incentives. Loneliness and differentness from similar documents at the inter-ministerial level were already reflected in the composition of the expert committee for the preparation of the document, where it was possible to engage people who had left an indelible mark on Slovenian culture and art until then. This is particularly important when we create the fundamental developmental moves of Slovenian culture for an eight-year period and believe that the then-proposer of the extended validity of the document in 2016, certainly also in mind the magnanimity, which will thus exceed only the mandated framework of democratic inclusion of the public according to human resources and the process of creation. Well, then this government came. To begin with, therefore, the most important document for the development of culture in Slovenia should be reconsidered, further removed from the comparison of bureaucratic with the unilateral integration of ideological subtons of the current political authorities, as of course we feel it in the present document, and returned to the delivery of social criticism, the integration of different stakeholders and, of course, the third time to people who understand the role of culture and art in society, of course it is not. [[Incomprehensible]] In this respect, the document should offer more concrete systemic solutions, which would later be translated into an action plan in a way that depends on documents rather than on the Government of the latter in terms of decision-making power, as it is either accepted by the Government or not by the DZ, and the public's comments are only possible or not as we can see being taken into account. If we ignore so many times the current government's pressure of culture into ideological rises, the document mainly lacks ambition to reflect on the presence of Slovenian culture and art in the 21st century through the prism of modern technologies and the current situation today. Another time. Modern art forum and, most importantly, the third time, how Slovenian language will be included in new art paradigms. Depending on the relationship, it is also important to consider how Slovenian culture and art will respond to the new generations of municipalities, especially how we will attract more young people, starting with the culture of lovers, but of course this is not in this document. The NPK is therefore primarily focused on the public sector in culture, which is seen in LMŠ as extremely important and as the guardian of traditional forms of art and culture, but it often seems that the document is only based on an outdated concept of the key importance of culture as those who are supposed to take care of strengthening national identity. We agree and support this. However, other positive effects such as creativity, criticalness, political engagement, social cohesion are also present in contemporary patterns of cultural activity, but this current government does not want to. Strengthening national identity by culture is a self-confidence that must also be maintained at the level of a strong network of public institutions, as it is the foundation of national identity. There is also a lot of room to think about the promotion of festival activities as an important segment of cultural tourism, the economic effects of culture we probably don't need to lose words today or just because it is also forgotten in this document. What is of particular concern to us is that the document does not provide sufficient reflections on the synergies between public, government, non-governmental and civil society and their mutual development. Instead of a comprehensive understanding of the role of self-employed in culture and the non-governmental sector, in particular as carriers in contemporary artistic concepts, they are considered to be weak or inadequate, and in particular the field of some business entities alone and exclusively, although the entire creative surplus of resources is being returned to their mission, including the programme. The fundamental strategic charter in culture could be said without worrying that it is good to at least have it, that we have at least got it here, but on the imperative assumption that it is supported by a large part of the professional public and civil society. This is in fact a key objective of such an important act that it can live in perfection at all. This is a condition that this charter, which is before us, does not meet. Such an important document should not only be designed to meet one of the only two points in the cultural coalition contract, but on the basis of broad public approval, so in LMŠ we believe that without feeling excessive loss we could return to public treatment with clear objectives to obtain a strategic charter that will cost the most representatives of the cultural and artistic public and will eventually be proud of it. Of course, we will not support this proposal in the LMŠ.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the chapter and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate chapter IX, the Common Objectives for All Areas of Culture and the Amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Let me tell you what the amendment proposes: “In the subsection of the Investment in Culture, a new table is added for the Table Review of Key Public Infrastructure Investments in State-owned Public Property: Investments in UNESCO World Heritage Sites and European Heritage Labels.” Five projects are listed in this table: the prehistoric cradle on the Igu in the Ljubljana Bar, the heritage of mercury in Idrija, the selected works of Jožet Plečnik, the church of Sv. Spirit in Javorca, Partizan Hospital Franja near Cerkne and reception and information center. The implementation of all projects is between 2022 and 2029, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture and the total value of investments is EUR 20 million. So that's what we're talking about. Anybody want a word? I see Sam Bevik. Here you go. You have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Respectable assembly, colleagues and colleagues! As you have already said, Mr Vice-President, the amendment to the national programme for culture for the period 2022-2029 also includes investments in the sites of UNESCO's heritage and holders of the sign of European heritage. Indeed, the UNESCO General Conference had already adopted an Agreement on the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage in Paris in 1972. The agreement has so far been signed by 194 countries and the list of world cultural heritage and natural heritage lists a thousand 154 world-class landmarks from 167 Member States from all continents. In the former Yugoslav State, the Škocjan Caves were listed as the first in Slovenia to be included on this prestigious list in 1986. Let me remind you, Yugoslavia had nine entries at the time, and today the Republic of Slovenia has five recorded sights, three cultural and two natural ones: the prehistoric grounds on Igu in Ljubljana Bar, the heritage of living silver in Idrija and the selected works of architect Jožet Plečnik in Ljubljana as a cultural heritage, and they are also part of the proposed amendment, which we will discuss further, and the original beech forests in the forest reserves of Krokar and Sneznik Ždrolce, as well as the first described Škocjan Caves as a natural heritage. We also have a so-called trial list of the world's UNESCO heritage, where Slovenia has four more entries: Fužine Mountains in Bohinj, Classical Kras, the Path of Peace from the Alps to the Adriatic and Partizan Hospital Franjo, waiting for the proceedings to continue. The Convention provides in Article 4 that the signatory countries themselves must ensure that natural and cultural heritage is registered, protected, maintained and maintained and maintained and that they seek to reach out to the craftsmen. The Convention also allows the endangered heritage to come to the list of endangered world treasures. In this way, for example, the international community saved Dubrovnik's legacy due to the consequences of the Serbian bombing. In fact, this whole project of Unesco’s World Heritage began because of the threat of the famous shrine Abu Simbel at the construction of the great Aswan dam in Egypt. If we look at neighbouring countries, of course Italy with 58 entries follows Austria with 12 Croatia 10 and Hungary with 8 entries. The serious and successful efforts of the Republic of Slovenia ended in 1986, when the list of the Škocjan Caves was only listed at the end of 1994 and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided to propose the Bohinj Shepherding Mountain, the Mother Kras and the mining town of Idria as a registration test list. On the first or first National Programme for Culture 2004 and 2007, which he has here with him, we wrote for the first time that it is necessary to successfully promote Slovenian heritage projects in an international scale to achieve one or more entries on the UNESCO World Heritage List and to immediately prepare nominations for those monuments already on UNESCO's trial list. Since then, we can say that the country has taken this project seriously. The Republic of Slovenia, like the independent state, has reached four more entries and has four more entries, as stated on Unesco's trial list. However, the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Culture has already embarked on the project of the European Heritage Mark since the beginning, as well as the entries on Unesco, a representative list of the world's intangible cultural heritage of mankind, where we have entered the Škopheloški solion, the tours of the Kurents, the kneeling of laces in Slovenia with the Idrian lace on the forehead and the dry wall building, but on the intangible heritage of another time. Commemorative areas with a sign of European heritage, which are also part of this amendment as it is said to be the church of St. The spirit in Javorci and for the Partizan Hospital Franjo are the monuments of these areas 48 in the European Union were listed as milestones in the creation of today's Europe from the beginning of civilization to Europe as we know it today and symbolize European ideals, values, history and integration. These memorial or memorial areas have been selected since 2013, due to their symbolic value, their role in European history and the activities offered by these sites also bring the European Union and its citizens closer together. The Republic of Slovenia has three entries on this list: St. Spirit in Javorci, Partizan Hospital Franjo and Zdravica as a message to the European Spring of the Nations in the middle of the 19th century. For example, on this list there are also Athens Acropolis, Neanderthal's location in Krapina, Schengen as the birthplace of the Schengen Agreement, Shipyard and so on. With the proposed amendment, the National Programme for Culture will only be able to obtain it, as this amendment places the highest quality cultural heritage in the National Programme, which has European and world-renowned exceptional and universal value. These are the prehistoric grounds at Igu in the Ljubljana Bar, the legacy of living silver in Idrija, the selected works of architect Jože Plečnik in Ljubljana, the Church of Sv. Spirit in Javorci and Partizan Hospital Franja at Cerkne, for which we would invest 20 million and 700 000 euros between 2020 and 2029. The fact that some of these monuments are owned by local communities does not play any role is completely irrelevant, for nowhere does it say that in the National Programme for Culture we should not mention monuments owned locally or owned by other holders in particular if they have European, global and universal value. Ownership is of secondary importance here, only the quality of this heritage matters. Of course, everyone or everyone will have to participate properly in each investment, as the owner of the monument has been regulated in the framework of the Cultural Euro Act. It is also true that every euro invested in the revitalisation of cultural heritage will be reimbursed several times. Thus, investments in our heritage have a strong developmental foregleam and are very richly paid in the long run. This is an heritage that we also treat from the point of view of tourism promotion and rich in our cultural tourism. Travelers, visitors or, if you like, tourists, wherever we are going around the world, we usually go first to see the heritage that is under the auspices of UNESCO or has a sign of European heritage. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we have prepared these amendments and colleagues and I ask that these amendments also support and, at least by doing so, improve the National Programme for Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Yeah.]] Come on, Sitter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u100	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Have a nice hello to you all again! In the Group of the Left, we will support this proposed amendment and explain why. Now, the things the proponent has explained are actually about protecting cultural heritage that have a cultural value, even in the economy, in tourism, on another social map, this is not a challenge. In Slovenia, of course, we can deal with one set of cultural monuments, one or not under UNESCO's umbrella, but in any case, I think we can boast about one very rich cultural heritage map, and that is to say, the national dimension of it, if you want, or the social dimension of it, if you want. However, it is only a fact that, otherwise, a legitimate right, an amendment is being tabled, but it is only an investment of amendments in such a specific strategic document as this present document or with such a specific adoption process, but it is also important to note the political dimension of the document itself, to which the proposer therefore proposes this amendment. As I explained in my opening remarks in the position of the Group, the rakrana, the first, most open wound of this document, certainly the fact that it was created without civil dialogue and the problem of the treatment of cultural heritage as well, was pointed out by the professional public in the field of culture when, in this short time, a public debate and “feedback” itself announced the proposed text of the resolution. The writing of this proposal came, as it were, behind closed doors, at some political official level, without the involvement of the general public in the preparation. At the Ministry of Culture, with such proposals and similar proposals, it came, at least to know, at this time 38 responses to the draft, i.e. the professional public, 38 responses from the professional public to the draft National Programme for Culture, i.e. this strategic document, which paves the way for the development of the cultural sector over the next seven, eight years, and the Ministry found that, I now quote, in the notes, "a small number of comments" - 38 comments from the professional public, which the Ministry saw as a small number of comments - "just confirming their good work". [[…]] [[…]] Right, and here, at this point, I repeat the question that I have raised rhetorically to the Government at the outset, in the position of the Group of Members, are you kidding with these observations? In the face of serious criticism that the document is insufficient, that it is obsolete, that it is harmful to cities and that we have also discussed this more widely on the committee, that it has some elements of clear nationalism. The minister didn't tell him or tell him to say so, he didn't pick up at all. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u101	My friend Siter [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u102	I mean, honestly. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u103	Please return to the debate on the amendment [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u104	I think my debate is perfectly legitimate. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u105	and yes [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u106	And I draw [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u107	to return to the debate on the amendment and that you do not have a general discussion. [[…]] My colleague Bevk made an explicit and qualitative presentation in this work, I would say, of the history of all these matters, and I suggest you go to the amendment. I have read it so that understanding will be easier for the public to see what it is and not talk now about things that have absolutely nothing to do with the concrete amendment. Here you go. You have a debate ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u108	Comrade Bevk explained the history of this problem very well and widely, which means that he outlined the context. And now I am drawing up the political context, including the amendment tabled by my colleague and the professional public response to this issue. That's why I don't think this warning was in place right now. But the minister in this story and that's the criticism [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u109	You won't comment on my decisions, mate, because you can have a procedural proposal when you're done if you don't discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u110	Your Honor, I called for a procedural motion, and you didn't give it to me. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u111	You have a debate to discuss. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u112	You sent me to the debate. My colleague called in a procedural proposal, and now my watch is ticking. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u113	And don't argue with the president. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Primož Siter has the floor for discussion. You have a debate now. I just interrupted you so your time wouldn't run out and told you to discuss content, not about [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u114	In short, the minister is not in this cave. The minister's quiet. There is no need to respond to warnings of a problematic trend, such as after the decline in the number of self-employed and non-governmental organisations, especially when stated, let us say that despite the decline, I now quote the ministry, “the decline in birth in Slovenia is increasing the number of self-employed people in culture”. That's the document. He's not here. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u115	Colleague [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u116	when the professional public is advertised [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u117	I warn you because you don't stick to the darkness and the amendment. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u118	when it also responds to the issue presented by the colleague in the amendment. [[…]] He's not here. And that's the main criticism. And so, once again, I am delighted that, just two months before the elections, we had to list the policy on behalf of the professional public to listen to the professional public when it comes to proposals such as now, say, that the professional public had to list the policy on behalf of the professional public, that the professional public had even reached its public on the political floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u119	Give Siether a second warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u121	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u122	Whatever we proposed in this mandate, MEPs and members of the democratic opposition as amendments were only translations of the calls of the professional public in the cultural field, in the area of long-term care, if you will, and to all [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u123	I'll take your word for it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u124	up to the total phase [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u125	One more thing. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Before you get a procedural proposal, you all had the opportunity to put any concrete amendment into consideration, including what you are saying now, and you did not do so. And if you want to discuss the content that suits you, then put in concrete amendments. Here we are talking only about investment in the field of culture and the inclusion of an additional table proposed by the SD Group of Members. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Procedural Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u126	President, thank you for your word. I would kindly ask that Members who wish to explain why they will support the amendment tabled by the SD Group of Members let them say what they have to say. Your job up there isn't to judge whether someone says something right or wrong about a cultural minister who, by the way, is uncultured. Nor is it your function to judge what Comrade Siter explains because it is his right, because he was finally elected. And I am simply politely asking you to leave the debate which is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure because Mr Siter is at this point explaining why they will support the SD amendment, because it was necessary to submit it because the Government has forgotten these things. It's very simple. And I'm really asking you not to do what you're actually doing when you're in charge of the session. Burn the situation and then there's some fights about no connection, because you say your power up there, in the notes. Thank you so much for being so kind.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u127	Dear colleague, if you are going to warn the President, then read the Rules of Procedure. In my opening remarks, I have always said that we are talking about the article and the amendment tabled, and that is exactly what I am asking those of you who are discussing. We have general debates and I hope that someone who is an intellectual or who considers himself an intellectual knows what an article is and an amendment has been tabled. This is not a general discussion, this is not the Media Act, it is not the RTV Act, it is not the self-employed in culture in this case, but we are specifically talking about the cultural heritage that is written on the two lists. And if you're not able to understand that and drive a debate like that, then it's bad. The mandate is over, and you don't know it yet. Thank you very much. The next one with a procedural proposal is Primož Siter. Have you given up? Good. Then I'll remove you from the list. Natasa Sukič has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u128	Yeah, look at the chairman. I am of course proposing that you understand that when a Member or a Member explains why he will support or support an amendment, that there is sometimes a need for an outline of a broader context, that we sometimes understand what we are talking about, without being so rigid and not imagining anyone instead of the President, so that his and her judgment is absolute, but you must be aware that it is merely subjective and logical that you are subjective to the opposition and therefore the opposition of the soul in the debates. And that is why I am asking you, and I have asked you to stop doing this many times, because when your Members, therefore from your party are discussing you are letting them all live. We just had this case yesterday, and I gave you a bad reminder at the time, even though I don't mind them talking, which is why we have a Parliament. But if you allow one to move away even from the laws that we deal with and say I really don't know what everything is, you will also have to let the opposition argue in an argument and that the broader context sometimes breaks, even if we are talking about a specific amendment. Because if it's not like that, it's not like that, I mean, it's such an arbitrary intervention, so I'm asking you politely to stop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Lydia Divac Mirnik has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u130	Presidents, other presidents, thank you for the floor. But now I'm going to say it anyway, because Comrade Tanko stayed here in the hall. The amendment, which has been tabled and for those who are not in Parliament, does not know how this procedure works, to say the least, consists of an amendment proposal and then an explanation of this amendment that we will vote on today. And Mr Siter previously explained exactly why they would vote on this as they did in Levica and what it means, he explained the whole story in short. That is why, Mr Tanko, that you now acknowledge to the opposition that we do not understand, as quasi intellectuals, so you said that we do not understand this procedure of reasoning on the amendment and then, of course, the explanation of our vote is not only underestimating, it is a fool's doing, but not only from us in the opposition, but actually from all people who know two plus two. I understand that you do not like the opposition talking here about what is wrong in this country, and I believe that you must defend this government at all costs again and again. I understand all that. However, it is unacceptable to use your function for this purpose, this is the function of Vice-President of the National Assembly, and whenever you conduct meetings, whenever you conduct meetings, there are complications. I don't know why there is no complication when there is a meeting of Vice-President Tina Heferle from LMŠ or Mr Branko from Desus. So, as we say, back to back, let's say what we have to say and move on, because eventually we're confined to time anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u131	Thank you very much. It is also true that Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure speaks when we discuss amendments to the debate on amendments, but it is very difficult to draw that border line between what is involved and what is not, so please let us all discussers try to stick to our Rules of Procedure and focus and focus on the content of the amendment. Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Each stage of the examination of the act shall be prescribed by the Rules of Procedure specified in the Rules of Procedure. Now, speaking of the use of the Rules of Procedure and at this stage of consideration, where we are now making reasonable application of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure, this is the true rule of the second reading and we can only talk about the amendment and explanation tabled. There is absolutely nothing in this amendment about self-employed people in culture, there is absolutely nothing about the Media Act and STA read to yourself. I hope we know what is the explanation of the amendment or the debate on the amendment and what is the next phase that will happen today after it is concluded and you can explain the position of the Group until the vote or your personal position on the law and your vote. That's the next step. I hope that after four years, at least those who will run ahead read the Rules of Procedure and the rules that apply, because all that is related to the violation of the rules causes problems or you can submit to the Rules of Procedure Commission an amendment to the Rules of Procedure so that there will be no second, first reading, but that there will be a general debate at all stages. You can do that. Suggest that if you receive a two-thirds majority you accept it. In this case, however, the instructions are explicit as regards the Rules of Procedure and the application and you can only talk about what is the subject of the debate, this is the right article and the amendment tabled. The general debate, gentlemen, was on the committee, and the general debate could be another time, or otherwise, only those things should be properly used. To accuse someone of leading the meeting differently than others. I'm running it by the book, so read it to yourself. If you protest against my leadership, please refer to the provision on which you refer not to flattening something but to mating in one way or another. You're the one who has the most problems with running the Rules of Procedure and the ones who are the most violators of the Rules of Procedure. We're not on the Metelk.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u133	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr Rajić has the floor. Mr. Thin Mike, if you turn it off. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u134	I didn't have the procedure, but I signed up for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u135	But you're up for discussion. First, Mr. Siter procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Perhaps I should conclude this complication now and welcome Mr Simonovic for you to take over the session. Now my debate was procedurally impeccable. I'm not going to defend myself here now because we all saw what was going on and how I was discussing it. There has certainly been a broader debate in the context in which this amendment has been put forward to say some substantive context and political context. Another time. In fact, I have also been instructed, as a drunkard, by Mr Tanko every time to discuss strictly and only this millimeter of the substantive amendment, which I have also adhered to on the agenda. I am talking about a very specific amendment prepared by the motioner before me. I don't think there's any question here. But the big question, procedurally, is what was it now, the President-in-Office? Did the Vice-President, who now defended his decisions by the Vice-President, defend himself, attack the opposition, what was that business form? I mean, this National Assembly has become Texas, where the SDS can do anything they want, but we all have to stick to the agenda by a millimeter. Yesterday we had such a fine example - Mr Doblekar, I am glad that he is now in the Chamber - as he spread and spread the debate at the agenda item, while Mr Tanko was sitting on the stage and we were all able to follow. Now, the diametric contradiction is that a member of the Committee on Culture should not discuss the national programme for culture at the time of the agenda. This is happening, these are new rules, and this is the collapse of democratic order in an institution that should be the first defender of democratic regulation. Dear Vice-President, it is not in my jurisdiction to do this, but Mr Tanko now deserves one or two or three reminders from you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u137	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. In his procedural proposal, Mr Tanko also drew attention to the rules of procedure, which should be clear instructions on how to follow. But like I said, it's very hard to talk about an amendment, some content, and draw a line on what might or might not belong under an amendment. I would call for all to be patient, and I want us to move forward with the debate, because otherwise we can share such or other lessons, how and what. However, the Chair shall be the one who, when conducting the meeting, shall be responsible for the interpretation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. This is referred to in Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Sukich, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u138	Yes, President, I would really like to experience one day before the end of this term, so that you may also understand this 134th article by giving a warning to Ambassador Tank, who finally dared to flee into us: “We are not on Metelkova”. Did this have anything to do with anything? That was an insult. It's an insult. And because of such things he gives the warnings, one, two, three, and immediately you have three reminders. So I ask you, a single glimpse of you, a ray of knowledge, but you will once again give a reminder when it is to be given, even to a member of the Tank. I therefore suggest that you actually give him this reminder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u139	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. I'm sure I won't give him that warning. We are here in the National Assembly, and let us also look at the mirror that we are making, because I think it is worrying that such and other comments are flying, so to speak, in the National Assembly. It is no wonder, then, that this is also passed on between our citizens and our citizens, that we are separated, hostile and all. Dear colleagues, let us also take up our share of the responsibility. I believe that some other government may come after April 24th, but, look, once the fire burns and we all smoke it together, it's very hard to put out. And indeed, as colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to skip the period of these procedural proceedings and if you agree, I would like to give the floor to Mr Rajić, who has applied for the debate. [[advertising from the hall]] Gradually, Lydia Divac Mirnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u140	Thank you. Very short, just technically. Madam President, Mr Tanko did not have a procedural proposal because he was running out of time reported by the SDS Group as a time for discussion. I'm so politely asking you to change that. And yes, I can agree with you, but, as it is said, whenever Mr Tanko leads the meetings there are these complications. Otherwise, it doesn't come to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u141	Your Honor, you're right. And we will arrange for this to go through the procedure, it will come out of a joint debate. You're right, and that could be our fault or my fault. Mr. Rajic, you have a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, nomen six omens, as they say, and it is true that in the case of our colleague Tank, nerves become thin, especially when it comes to opposition. But luckily, this period is now over and we can go to the debate on the amendment. I would fully welcome him, the SD amendment, which is time-consumingly very broad. We go from prehistoric to modern times and it is good that the artifacts of cultural heritage that have been invested are summarized. But I would like to make a somewhat broader comment within this that everyone is to be supported, all listed, of course, are in one amendment and will not share. But it's interesting to look at just articulation or it's based on this pluralism that we all doubt when we mention why only the skeptical to support the resolution itself is really worth asking ourselves whether in the light of the fact that we know how the current click works, or whether, for example, the investment in the partisan hospital of Franja will be made in the same way as the investment in, for example, the church of St. The ghost in Javorca or just to choose some other artifact, but I hope we understand what kind of dichotomy this is. In this respect, I would really like to hear the reply of the Secretary of State, in particular as regards this amendment, because these doubts about equality and the equal opportunities mentioned here have arisen because there is the impression that the same opportunities are practically given only to the same thinkers. And here I would like to provide a little more, especially for this reason, because, as we know, once the resolution has been approved in the National Assembly, all the action documents that follow it and which are operational continuation of the whole matter have virtually nothing to do with the National Assembly and we are faced with just seeing how the ministry, of course under the government's dictatorship, has decided whether or not it will be otherwise. So, here's my point, because it's true that why I'm worried, in fact, if this amendment is in place, which, of course, and the whole group, the SAB Group will contribute their voice. [[…]] But let's say this goes on, and here only if we get another word here I have to say to the always present ladies of the State Secretary, because the general spirit of irony and jading, which has been sprayed by many of the Minister of Culture's frequently heard statements, but I must point out that it seems to me that every such slowdown and this terrible fall of rhythm and cultural level has always been able, in some way, to correct it and to show that, as colleagues from LMŠ say, we are not all the same. In all these elements, which are listed in the amendment, I still think about going back to the resolution itself, where I have detected an ideological substance which must not be in the resolution. In fact, the government is changing, the resolution remains for a longer period. And I would therefore like to point out that I am just waiting, I am looking, I want this word of promise here, but the representatives of the ministry present, to somehow avoid this mistrust that we have just felt from our side, because there have been too many cases when we had to, when we were faced with a seemingly eloquent one way, implemented in another, and each time it was particularly disappointing for all of us who were expecting one fairer or more plural relationship. But if I come back, maybe for the end, I won't even owe it. [[?]] But to conclude, I would say that this pluralism, which is mentioned here and, of course, which is absolutely desirable, but unfortunately, we are afraid that it is not feasible, in view of all that we have seen and also when it comes to government visits, for example, and when our Mariborian officer asks the Minister of Culture whether he will make a statement, but he says, not at all, that he spits such a statement, I cannot say, as it seems to me that pluralism, which he advocates, as a person, would be more of a spitting matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will try to focus mainly on the answer, but one broader context needs to be given here, as regards only the area of the National Programme for Culture or Cultural Heritage. Cultural heritage is one of the priorities of the National Programme for Culture. We know that the funds have been significantly reduced in the last period and that in recent years, in the last budget for 2021, there has been a marked increase. It is awareness that without what is our national memory and without the preservation of this national memory, even such a nation has no future, and in this spirit and also in the spirit of the fact that what we are dealing with today is in the title, the term, the National Programme for Culture, of course, is very well founded, even essential, because we know what the national word means to the NPK itself, in one of the fourteen goals, including the national identity, the preservation of national identity and consciousness, and that if this is an ideology, then something is wrong with the name of the document itself. So, in this spirit, this debate would begin in a way, as Boris Pahor said, “No nationalism has its language, its culture and its identity.” And in this spirit, of course, the Ministry of Culture, under the guidance of Dr. Simoniti, is now speaking specifically on behalf of the Minister or I express his views and also his views, is aware that the preservation of cultural heritage is one of the foundations, as I have argued. This is highlighted several times in the National Programme for Culture itself, and is also prominently set out in the Investment Table itself, and therefore, of course, there is no argument that in this respect, the Minister for Culture is not consistently aware of the cultural identity at all levels, both in terms of the past, the present and the future. In this spirit, the Ministry of Culture also strongly supported or in 2020 and 2021 in the past year, strongly supported all the procedures for the entry of Plečnik's heritage into the UNESCO list and, as you know, it was also successful. Thus, UNESCO's heritage or those who have, those cultural monuments that have status are marked by a European sign, heritage, of course, always have priority with additional points, on all tenders. It should be pointed out, however, that the National Programme for Culture is not a document, it is not a legal document in the spirit that can also be included in the list of non-State-owned facilities. The fundamental document in the field of culture is ZUJIK, which in Article 102 clearly defines the financing of public cultural infrastructure owned or owned by local communities through calls and calls. It is therefore a condition that something like this should be included in the list listed here of objects that are either privately owned, locally owned in the NPK itself, of course, means that we prejudge the financing of these objects according to certain other objects or cultural monuments in local or private ownership and, of course, the system violates ZUJIK. [[…]] The legacy of mercury in Idrija, which is owned by the Republic of Slovenia, was duly recorded in the proposal of the National Programme for Culture. So much for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u145	Thank you very much. You want a debate? The debate is held by Lydia Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u146	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I'll try to be really short. Now the resolution we have on the table today will actually bind the next two governments and, of course, it is very unfair of the current government to bring such an ideologically colored resolution to our table. It's just a fact. All the nice words are great, and oh, and it's really cool. It's just a fact. Because in this resolution you are absolutely forgetting this ambition in considering the public of Slovenian culture and art in the 21st century through the prism of modern technologies and, in fact, through the prism of current circumstances, you are also absolutely forgetting the situation. You are also forgetting the new age of artistic form and – well there you forget the part about this thing – these are some things that need to be said here today. In fact, opinions or criticism of the professional public, when one reads them, respected secretary of state, I would feel uncomfortable in your place. I understand that you have to defend what you are defending, okay everyone decides how to defend this I have no problem with it, but if I were to say the Voice Union, which is a representative union in the field of culture and it is clearly written by the professional public: “Accepting a document would stop development for 10 years rather than sucks.” and then I quote: “They write that it is an unacceptable party ideological propaganda that wants to deny ten, decades of national culture and bring us back into the midst of the 19th century into the relationship of masters and servants, a culture of lies, fear and transfiguration.” Now the Association of Slovenian Writers lacks a clear strategy and the role of libraries say the Associations of General Libraries is completely overlooked also not least the Institute of Fran Ramovš. SAZU says that the draft does not provide for the preparation of new basic dictionaries and manuals for Slovenian language, so that I don't even start discussing art artists, as they say in the field of visual art. These are all segments of culture which are unfortunately overlooked in this strategy or resolution and given that work is not right for 8 years. It makes sense that we will not applaud this product of yours in the opposition, because you probably didn't expect us to. But I'm glad if I've understood you correctly now that this amendment proposed by the SD will be supported. Did I get this right or did I get it wrong? I'm sorry, but... [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u147	Are you done? In the end, the Madam Secretary will reply. Finish the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u148	Yeah, you're right. Thank you very much, Chairman, I agree. This will depend on my debate and I will try to shorten it. Investment projects in this document have also been overlooked, including some Moroccan projects. Those who live in Maribor know how important it is to rebuild the Maribor castle, but there is no key investment in this review. Although in the previous Government, we understand each other, it is said that in the Government of Marjana Sarca adopted the cultural euro, the one so long-awaited law that has given so much and so much money more for cultural investments or whatever we call it. It is interesting, however, that a new construction is involved or a complete renovation worth 7 million, the Museum of Slovenian Independence, which I do not have a problem with. I have no problem making another museum of Slovenian independence, but it would be good to look at what museums offer these contents today and how they offer them and maybe combine them or, I don't know, to those content and to those museums that are already doing so much and so much more money that they can do it more by the taste of anyone, so that I won't name anyone now. In short, you forget a few things that are crucial. As for the amendment as such, we will also support it in the LMŠ. In fact, the amendment will help ensure that Partizan Hospital Franjo is not forgotten, so that this reception information centre will also be there. The ones you've been there lately, you know there's nothing down there, and it really needs to be arranged. I am convinced that there is probably no Member here who, because of his ideology, would oppose such an amendment, which is properly explained and also properly submitted. So, as it is said, the resolution itself has huge shortcomings. Unfortunately, there is too much ideology in it that is unnecessary at this time, even though this mandate will expire in two or two months. And that is incorrect because the resolution actually binds the next two governments. Therefore, as I have said in our position, nothing will be wrong if we return this resolution to public hearing, of course, with a clear aim of obtaining a charter that will actually cost more representatives of culture, including art, and which they will adopt as their own and which they will be proud of. That would seem to me to be an achievement that this minister could have done. However, unfortunately, in the spirit and nature of his rudeness, I believe that the matter will go forward as a roller today and will develop as it develops, which I regret. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I am pleased that you have also touched the amendment in the debate. The Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Chairman. In my initial reply, I wanted to stick mainly to the questions about the amendment tabled. According to the quotes listed here, allow me to react. I would like to ask if we are discussing a cultural document to discuss culturally, regardless of political option and differences, and that the same cultural talk is also made about current Minister Vask Simoniti. I'd like that very much. I would like to point out the following: The statements of the Voice Syndicate were quoted. They're talking about ideology and a variety of other markings. What is ideological, please, in the National Programme for Culture? What is supposed to be ideological about the proposal before you? The fact that the nation is listed as a national substance. This is prescribed by the name of the document, the national program for culture. Is it ideological to talk about freedom of expression? Is it ideological to talk about dialogue? Is it ideological to talk about the meaning of the media, the reflection, the copyright of every individual? What's in this ideological document? In short, when it comes to a single ideological quote, you cannot find it in this document because this document is not a normative document, it does not want to prescribe it because it is not its function. The function of this document is that culture allows conditions for both society and individuals to create as best as possible. And this is the role of this document. Conditions for creation and freedom for every individual to create. And it is obvious to him that he has no vision, that he does not include the fact of what art we will have, what this art will be, what this art will be, what it will stand for, because that is exactly what the principle and the essence of the document is to leave creativity free. To leave the art of the 21st century to seek its own ways and contents. However, the function of the document is to create for all who, in the field of art, either amateur or of course professional, top-notch, as well as defined self-employed status, allow this creativity to be able to be creatively engaged and, of course, to be accessible to the general public. And to state that there is nothing in the document about how to attract young people's culture, this document is among the goals, for the first time among the fourteen distinctly recorded. Let me just say it. I'm afraid I'm open on the other side. It's written down as follows. Strengthen the involvement of the population in cultural development, develop a culture of love and provide cultural art education as a whole of life learning, develop cultural awareness and expression in children and young people. And then, under the chapter, cultural art education, which is in this, right in this proposal, the NPK is greatly strengthened in relation to the previous one, this is particularly broken down. The same was said here that there was nothing about festival activities. Under the chapter of intermedia art, it is a particular point and development objective to promote festival activities. This is also one of the first national cultural programmes to highlight inter-sectoral integration among the priorities. Moreover, this cross-cutting has already been implemented in the negotiations under the recovery and resilience plan, where culture under the heading of culture and tourism, i.e. integration with tourism and the economy, has received an additional €47 million. So these are concrete and real facts. We can read and say anything, we can also talk about the fact that there was no broader public debate. For the first time, the National Programme for Culture was carried out within the mandate of two ministers. We have heard here that 90% of the text retained from the draft prepared by the team under the previous minister, mag. Zoran Poznik. Now, again, in contradiction, we hear that this is a document that has no value, and that this is a document in which everything is recorded. Yes, how, if 90% of the text has been retained by the previous one, as one of the Members claimed, has already been prepared? And more similar contradictions and inconsistentities, of course, we have heard here. On the one hand, we are talking about this, we have heard that the epidemic has severely affected the cultural sector, and on the other hand, it has been clear that the document has been thrown into the drawer and nothing has been done for two years. It took two years to monitor the epidemic, the honourable Members and Members. It took two years to prepare or a year, at least a year, a few more than a year to prepare a recovery and resilience plan to revitalize the cultural sector. And all this work has been written down and is included in the proposal that is before you. And all the suggestions are included. So I would really like to ask you to talk about the document that is here before all of us, and not about what anyone would like to read on a particular page, even though it is mentioned on any other side, or in a document that any of us would like to read here. This is a document prepared by the consensus of the general public so far. The previous Minister established the group and clearly stated in the document that a series of workshops were carried out after Slovenia, on the basis of which 10 points were drawn up, which were expected to be key in the new proposal for a document. And these points are taken into account in the priorities you have below. By extending the priority objectives to 14 points because of, of course, the changing situation of epidemiological situations, due to the changes in the budget that I mentioned in the previous presentation, due to the implementation of the Cultural Euro Act. And if, of course, it is obvious to this minister that only specific projects will come through the invitation to tender, then it is truly amazing that partisan Franja hospital received funds for the reconstruction of the roof at a two-year invitation to tender for cultural heritage. By asking you kindly not to discuss the Minister's decision on what will and will not be approved. The invitation to tender shall be granted what is duly documented, shall be granted what the expert committee shall evaluate in accordance with clearly known and signed criteria and, as I have pointed out, UNESCO's heritage shall always have additional points on these invitations. However, it is not possible, but it is not possible, that the ZUIK does not allow this to favour certain projects which are locally or privately owned, beyond calls and calls. And from this point of view, this amendment cannot be adopted because there is no legal basis in the ZUIK. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Sutter's got a word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u152	Thank you for saying that again. Now there are many points that we can connect with this amendment or the broader text of this law, which is worth warning. One review, or call, has already been made in the beginning, that is, what we have heard here, which has brought 38 articles from the professional public to the attention of some of the problems or shortcomings of this law. However, it is perhaps one thing that is perhaps most worth exposing here, as well as one understanding. Look, culture as a business is people, they're workers who create it. And unfortunately, on a cultural map, we find that the majority of these workers and workers are self-employed. Only in the event sector is such, over the thumb, an estimate that about 90% of all workers are self-employed. In other sectors of the rapids a little bit less, but this number is still, or this percentage is still very high. And it is problematic that, at the time of this Government, not only the creation of this document, this ten-year continuity of talking about this problem with the self-employed themselves through the dialogue groups has ceased, with the fact that the Minister of this Group has so-called or not, and is this direction, that the opportunities for the self-employed and for their normal lives, social security and so on, in the field of culture, is worrying, and the document that we have before us is one specific intention to see in it that this number of self-employed people, who are thus socially protected and so on, is still shrinking and that the number of organisations in culture, NGOs in particular those in the public interest, is shrinking. The national programme for culture, something so strategic, should include an increase in essentially financial resources, a progressive increase in financial resources for these organisations, because the hand on the heart, on the cultural map, are the NGOs in Slovenia that really keep things up, are the best representatives of Slovenia in the world and in the final stage are there to do in culture what institutional culture does not do or what the state does, as in other areas, in social, humanitarian organizations, say, NGOs do in the social state, what the country does not do and in culture is similar. So, on the secretary's question about how to attract young people into culture, I have a very simple answer. If we want young people to become involved in culture, to take it seriously, to contribute to the cultural landscape, to become culturers and artists, what must we take care of them? It is necessary to ensure their social security, even if they are self-employed in culture. If they are self-employed in a culture in such a way that they have paid contributions, [[sign for the end of the debate]] that they have the opportunity to have an enabling environment, the opportunities in which they can create, regardless of where they are doing it. Now, the present document is a diametric contradiction to creating pleasant circumstances, creative and socially secure circumstances for young cultural creators and creators. This is the core of our criticism in the area of lack of policy [[sign for the end of the debate]] self-employed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Those of you who have expressed your support for this amendment thank you very much. I hope that he will receive sufficient support at the plenary session when voting. However, I would like to respond to the position of the Secretary of State for Culture, who has justified it, in my view, quite wrong why this amendment cannot be supported. Indeed, the National Programme for Culture defines national policy in one specific area, in this case in the field of culture, and this document is also correlated with cultural policy at local level. Therefore, as it is said, the State Secretary's argument that the National Programme does not include monuments owned locally or privately does not hold and stands on very, very torn feet. The fact is that the Legislative and Legal Service also had no comments on this amendment, even more so, at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, I was told by the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly that we would be able to table this amendment as a parliamentary group for consideration at the plenary session of the National Assembly. Article 102 of the National Programme and Article 102 of the Law on Public Interest in Culture are not excluded, I repeat, not excluded as a true secretary of state, but complemented. If cultural heritage is one of the priorities, as previously said, I expect both the Ministry of Culture and the Coalition to support this amendment, as it includes something of European, global and extraordinary universal value in the national programme. The possession of monuments is of secondary importance here. The amendment, as it is said, has been properly tabled and is not contrary to the law. The national programme and the law are, as it is said, not excluded, as they will be able to use both the call to the holder of such a monument and the invitation to tender at the Ministry of Culture in Article 102. The fact is, you do not want to support this amendment in the coalition simply because I am the motion for this amendment by the opposition MP and I am not a member of this coalition. I believe that if we thought carefully about this proposal without these folklore prejudices, we would certainly support it unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing there's no interest. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on the establishment of municipalities and the determination of their areas within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Krivec. At its 64th emergency meeting, on 15 February 2022, the draft law was considered by the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Government as the working body of the mother. Since, after the discussion, the committee of articles of the draft law did not adopt the second consideration of the draft law at the meeting of the working body was completed. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Nataša Sukič will present to us the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye! Already in the previous amendment to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and the Designation of Their Areas, which granted the status of the Municipality of Krško, we have warned that the adoption of such a novel will trigger a wave of new proposals for the municipalities. By disregarding the legal conditions, the National Assembly thus gave a clear signal that each congregation could be a city congregation. In the previous novel we discussed amendments for the municipality of Brežice and Jesenice, and now only the last time we got the proposal for Brežice back on the table, and the amendment was also submitted for Trbovlje and Zagorje. In the legislative procedure there is also a law which would grant the status of the municipal municipality of Škofja Loki. With all these proposals, the status of the city’s municipality is totally degraded. It is best for all municipalities to be granted the status of the city municipality, but it will be finally peace, not every time we conclude our mandates, but every time we get through this kind of siege, we are past the law in force. With the proposed amendments to the Law establishing municipalities, we have problems in Levica for a simple reason because the municipalities of Brežica, Trbovlje and Zagorje do not meet the legal conditions laid down in Article 16 of the Law on Local Self-Government to achieve the status of municipalities. None of these municipalities reach the minimum population, that is 20,000, not even the prescribed jobs, that is 15 000. Similar suggestions have already been made in the past, and the National Assembly has consistently rejected them because the legal conditions have not been met. Just a few months ago, the National Assembly also rejected the amendment in order for Brežice to gain the status of the Municipality. Well, now we had the same proposal back on the table. And it was not quite enough that this time the committee would change its decision and give Brežicam this status. There is no end to the transposition of certain Members. Did something radical happen within three months, change? Did the number of inhabitants miraculously increase overnight in Brežice? Have new jobs opened up in the open? Of course not. All that changed was that we were a few months closer to the elections, that the elections were actually behind the first round. At this point, any debate on this pre-election jump with proposals from new and new municipalities should end. Such proposals should not go into procedure at all. At least this is an opportunity to give a serious warning about the subordination of city halls. We know that the status of the city’s congregation is not granted because of regional prestige, but rather because of the city’s urban characteristics, which require a different arrangement, different powers than other congregations. Therefore, the law should lay down more precisely the tasks of State competence relating to the development of cities. Large urban settlements face specific problems such as urban public transport, poor air quality, high energy consumption, increased space interventions and so on. The administrative, cost, investment and development burden of urban municipalities is increasing to address these problems. It therefore calls for a serious amendment of the legislation with regard to the tasks and competences of the municipal municipalities. In combination with the adoption of provincial legislation, they would eventually regulate local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia, which would also allow for easier verification, or the quantitative conditions for the establishment of the municipality still correspond to the development of settlements and municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia. Since we do not yet have this, the granting of status to new municipalities alone does not bring about the necessary qualitative changes. Of course, handball action cannot solve this problem, so we consistently oppose such proposals in Levica every time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u157	Thank you, too. Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! Today, unfortunately, we will not decide on the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and on the establishment of their areas, as tabled by Member Daniel Krivec. The law would grant the status of the municipality to the Municipality of Brežice. Unfortunately, the proposal on the parent’s working body did not receive sufficient support. The Ambassador of Nova Slovenije proposed that the status of the municipality be granted to the Municipality of Brežica, we supported because we listened to and agreed to the arguments of the applicant, as well as to the mayor of Brežica Municipality. The Mayor of Brežice Municipality, Ivan Molan, pointed out in his presentation that the town and municipality of Brežice have a unique geostrategic position with more than ten kilometres of state border with the Republic of Croatia, which is at the same time the external border of the Schengen area. The municipality has 29 state administration institutions and a number of institutions of regional importance. Among them is Brežice General Hospital and the Posav Museum Brežice. In the municipality lies the only Slovenian military airport Cerklje ob Krka, which is partly prepared for the needs of NATO. Brežice are also located in the immediate vicinity of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The Municipality of Brežice is already carrying out certain development and administrative functions to be performed by the municipality. On the Committee there were indications of non-compliance with certain conditions for the granting of the status of the municipality, in particular with regard to the provisions of Article 16 of the Law on Local Self-Government, which provides that the municipality may be granted the status of the municipality if it is located in its territory with at least 20,000 inhabitants and 15,000 jobs and is the economic cultural and administrative centre of the wider area. In the past, the Municipality of Brežice has sought to gain the status of the city municipality, but it has not been successful in its efforts, although it fulfils the same conditions as some other municipalities or is greater by number of inhabitants as well as by the surface of certain municipalities such as the Municipality of Ptuj, Murska Sobota or Slovenj Gradec. From the point of view of equal treatment in Nova Slovenija, we estimate that the Municipality of Brežica meets the legal conditions for the granting of the status of the municipality, while in the case of Brežica Municipality we should also take into account its role as a border municipality and the meaning of its development potential in some of the three municipalities of Posav, which have shared a number of administrative, economic, health, educational, cultural, economic, tourist and other functions. Among the key arguments for supporting the New Slovenia bill is the implementation of decentralisation as one of the fundamental principles of local self-government. Ambassador of Nova Slovenije we supported proposals for a law that would grant the status of the municipality of Brežica on the home working body, but the proposal did not receive sufficient support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u159	Thank you, too. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u160	Mr Vice President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Local self-government is of great importance to people because, in relation to the country, it allows them a certain degree of independence. Decision-making at the level of the municipality is closer to people than decision-making at the state level, as it is generally a matter of more direct concern and therefore better known to them, so it is all the more important that we have a strong local self-government in the service of citizens in Slovenia. In the SAB Party, we are aware that the quality of life of citizens and citizens is crucial to the quality and efficiency of local self-government. We are committed to reducing the number of municipalities in a way that gives them more responsibilities and responsibilities. As advocates of regional development, we also support the development and growth of Slovenian cities. The Law was recently adopted in the National Assembly, in accordance with the status of the municipal municipality, also awarded to the Municipality of Krško. At the same time, in the SAB, we advocated that such status be granted to the Municipality of Jesenice, since we recognized the potential that is reflected in the development of the municipality. In addition, Gorenjska is actually the only region in which only one municipality has the status of the city municipality. Since we are now practically already in the pre-election period, it is not surprising that the proposal to set up city halls is raining. We cannot shake the feeling that it is just an attempt to distribute pre-election candy with a view to obtaining political points. As stated in the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, municipalities have to provide a disproportionately large range of services with less resources, so here we are asked whether municipalities such as the Municipality of Brežica are capable of providing such a range of services, so it is particularly important that any such proposal is well weighed or the municipality which is seeking to obtain the status of the municipality really meets the legal conditions. Strong local self-government is not measured solely by the number of municipalities in the country. There are several factors that are needed in this place, so in the SAB we stand up, and we will also be in the future in order to encourage the congregations to unite and unite and thus gain more responsibilities and responsibilities. We would also like to see a debate in the National Assembly on how the municipalities would operate better and more rationally. Only in this way will the municipalities be able to provide a good and quality service for people - this is their key task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u161	Thank you, too. Robert Polnar will present the views of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. At last year's 86th extraordinary meeting, we discussed the proposed amendment to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and the establishment of their areas with the proposal for the municipality of Krško to become a city municipality. The proposal was adopted, although the municipality of Krško does not meet any condition for this. Since then, three new proposals have emerged either in marriage or in the form of amendments (Brežice, Trbovlje and Zagorje ob Savi) with a common feature - non-compliance with the basic legal conditions for the granting of the status of the municipality. We currently have 12 municipalities in Slovenia. Nearly half, five of them do not meet the legal requirements for the establishment of a city congregation. These are Slovenia Gradec, Murska Sobota, Nova Gorica, Ptuj and after the last change also Krško. The constitutional design of the municipality is based on the assumption that there are two types of municipalities, ordinary and urban in Slovenia and that the latter, therefore, have more competence, but the constitutional standard due to the lack of conceptual design has never been carried out. The City Assembly may, as its own by law, carry out certain tasks under State jurisdiction relating to the development of cities. This means that only those tasks relating to the city as a larger urban settlement can be delegated to the city by law. Although local affairs, for example, are very different from the local affairs of the smaller rural community by their content, quantity, diversity and intensity, these are matters of common interest, i.e. public interest for the lives and work of the inhabitants of the local community. The legislative experiments to date, which defined the additional tasks or competences of the city’s municipalities, have failed mainly for two reasons. The transfer of competences to the municipal municipality concerns those national tasks relating to the development of cities and not any other State tasks. In an attempt to extend the jurisdiction of the municipal municipalities, it was not possible to determine the state tasks and the extent to which they were, by their nature, such that they could be transferred as original only to the municipal municipalities and in doing so, to make a clear distinction between those tasks to be carried out by the State authorities. Thus, about a month after the last amendment of the law, a proposal was made for the status of the municipality to be granted to Brežica. At the end of 2020, the town of Brežica had 6 000,843 inhabitants according to the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which is far from being required by law 20 000. The Municipality of Brežice had 7 000 473 jobs in November 2021, which is also much less than the required 15 000 jobs as laid down in the Law on Local Self-Government. We can see that both essential conditions have not been met. The Municipality of Brežica therefore does not meet the legal conditions for granting the status of the city municipality. During the whole process, the argument in favour of the proposal was re-examined by the decision-making errors that were made 28 years ago, in 1994, when the first 11 municipalities were established. None of these arguments can change what is only important, cannot increase the number of people or increase the number of jobs. The bidding on whether or not to comply with the applicable legal provisions is entirely inappropriate. In the beige case, the auction for hair failed. On the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, there were 8 ports and 8 ports. On the horizon, there's already a new bidding, the one Skopheloška. Will it be any different then? We'll see about that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u163	Thank you, too. Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues, fellows, good-bye to everyone! The Municipality of Brežice has correctly submitted its initiative or request for the status of the Municipality of Brežica in accordance with the Law establishing the municipalities and determining their areas. The fact is that the Municipality of Brežice is among Slovene municipalities by size in 14th place with almost 25,000 inhabitants. It is also a municipality in the 13th place. In short, it's a big congregation. The fact is, we also have, under the current law establishing municipalities and determining their areas of the city municipality, which do not meet the conditions or criteria for granting the status of the city municipality, regardless of whether we are talking about the number of inhabitants or their size. However, the fact is that, unfortunately, the law is before the conclusion today, because the vote on the parent working committee has shown a vote of 8 to 8, which means that the procedure is over and at this point we do not have the opportunity to vote on whether Brezica should be granted the status of the municipality. But the fact is, and we are very proud of it in Posavje, that we have been working for our country for a long time. The mayors of the past, Members of the past, the regional development agency, all of them, or we have also participated in this welfare in order to finally get their region or province. And so as someone who comes from Posavia, I am very happy that a few months ago we succeeded in what some in Posavia have long waited for to have, in view of what is happening mainly in the State Council, when they want to establish provinces around the city’s municipalities, a condition that we reach our own province. For in the National Assembly, at the proposal of our fellow Member Dusan Šiška, we adopted the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and on the Designation of Their Areas and the Municipality of Krško, we granted the status of the city municipality. I must admit that I am happy for this law, too, because we are all Posavian, not just mayors, but, above all, Members have cooperated and acted unitedly. In short, even though we cannot decide today whether Brežica will receive the status of the city’s congregation, in Posavje we already have all the conditions for Posavje to remain and become a independent province. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u165	Thank you, too. Mr Medved will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u166	Dear Vice President, thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues. Stifling interference with all spheres of social life has been a constant since this government coalition took power. Of course, it was only a matter of time before it reached the area of local self-government. To attribute the idea of the SDS party that it is now necessary to grant the status of the municipality to Brežica. Not with arguments based on legal criteria, but with some others, such as the border assembly, it was even heard that it was close to Zagreb, but that is not the case. We already have a number of municipalities that do not meet the legal criteria, even because the legislation requires the fulfilment of certain totally non-life conditions, such as that the city population alone must count at least 20,000 people to make it through at least 15,000 jobs. These are the conditions for a substantially larger country with significantly larger cities than we can overcome in Slovenia. What will be in sight when proposing the granting of the status of the Municipality of Brežica is that no strategy, no reflection on what we want to achieve by doing so, is that the applicants are not following any strategy, but simply because they have decided to do so. Since the status of the city’s congregation took hold not long ago, this is the neighboring congregation. It is true that Krško does not meet all the legal criteria, but it has convinced us that Posavia is potentially able to form them in the future, whenever we can. And Krško can, however, be the economic, cultural and administrative centre of the region or perhaps the future province, and the applicants also attribute this role to Brežica, who border Krško. By this logic, both municipalities are the economic, cultural and administrative center of Posavje. It doesn't work together. And what do Domžale, Idrija, Jesenice, Kamnik, Piran, Radovljica, Ravne na Koroškem, Škofja archa; municipalities that in the past have not only expressed interest but have already been in procedures to gain the status of the municipalities. There are 14 of us in the LMŠ Group and each of us, if he does not come from the city congregation, could propose such status for his congregation. And I myself have proposed that the status of the municipality be granted to Zagor ob Savi because it meets no less the conditions than the Municipality of Brežica and with all arguments is considered the economic, cultural and administrative centre of the Sava region, in the future perhaps the province of Zasav. At the same time, there was also a proposal to grant the status of the municipality to the Rippers, including with the same legitimate arguments. Both proposals have been rejected, and Brežice has also been rejected, but this case has shown that we need to intervene carefully in the field of local self-government, to know what we are trying to achieve. In the LMŠ, we do not object to the possibility that some congregation may be granted the status of the city congregation in the future. For the interests of the congregations exist, usually through a consensus of municipal policy. In Zagorje, for example, the municipal council has expressed such interest in a very short period of time twice, and in the LMŠ we will immediately launch a procedure immediately after the elections to adjust the legislation properly and defend strategic interests and common sense, in conjunction with the people's wishes in the individual areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u168	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellows! With the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities introduced and adopted last year, and the establishment of their areas with the aim of transforming the status of the Municipality of Krško into a city municipality, the spirit was released from the bottle. According to Krška, a bill was also introduced in the legislative procedure, under which the State Assembly would grant the status of the municipal municipality to the Municipality of Brežice and Škofja archa. Two amendments were also tabled at the meeting where we discussed the above-mentioned law, namely, the municipality, which, as already mentioned, do not fully meet the conditions, but were given initiatives by municipal councils, both for Zagorje Municipality and Trbovlje. On the home committee, the proposal for the Municipality of Brežice to grant the status of the municipal municipality was not supported, so today the following opinion can be said in essence. Both proposals in the form of amendments for the municipality of Trbovlje and Zagorje were also rejected. The warnings by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly are serious and relate to the legal framework and conditions when the status of the municipal municipality can be granted. The critical debate on the proposal for a new Law on the Establishment of Communities and the establishment of their areas on the Committee was also essentially about non-compliance with the legal provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government. The provision of Article 16 of the Law on Local Self-Government reads as follows: The law may grant the municipality the status of the municipality if there is a city in its area with at least 20,000 inhabitants and 15,000 jobs and is the economic, cultural and administrative centre of the wider area. Inanimately and also I doubt that there is a municipality with 20,000 people with as many as 15,000 jobs. We still have a law on local self-government from 1993. With major or minor changes and additions we have come to the law on local self-government S that we are in the novel S is not yet such a big problem. The problem is that since 1993, when the basic law was passed, a number of changes have been made. This is also reflected in the following numbers. Out of 62 sociopolitical communities, 147 municipalities were established in 1994. When the spirit of the establishment of the congregations escaped from the bottle, this number rose to 212. At that time, the city’s congregations were also established in 1994. The debate on the parental committee has also shown that it is time for us to take legislative steps to define more clearly the tasks of jurisdiction and the financing of municipalities and the conditions that municipalities must meet for the award of municipal status. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the 1930s, Slovenia has changed a lot, and this is also reflected at local level. Economic trends and thus the collapse of many once strong industrial centres have left a large wound in a wide range of local environments. And it is this collapse or abandonment of individual industries that is also reflected on the local level in many environments, including in Zasavje. However, individual local environments are awakening, which is more than encouraging. Development is geared towards new jobs, entrepreneurial thinking gives new economic impetus, especially in regions that are in the process of restructuring and finding new ways and opportunities to develop a good indicator. It is also encouraging to note that they are seeking to increase and restore housing infrastructure with which residents, especially the younger ones, would be kept at home. This is also the case in the municipality of Trbovlje, which is the administrative, economic and cultural centre of the Sava statistical region. The number of jobs has decreased and the number of people has gradually decreased. On the other hand, local environments have been strengthened due to proximity, such as Ljubljana or other centres, where the number of jobs has not decreased so much or because of the proximity of the road, such as the proximity of the highway has improved significantly faster. Workplace centres have approached acceptable and finally comfortable travel times with some of the once remote places. Because we all find that in the 1930s a lot has changed and that a lot of legislation does not follow changes and development we will also have to bite into this sour apple called the local self-government regime. We are still without provinces, which, by the way, are also a constitutional category that would carry out local affairs of wider regional importance. But it's also stuck here with numbers and names. So he has a lot of challenges and works for the future government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u169	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 95th extraordinary session, which will be resumed by the vote at 3 p.m. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 14.24.) (The sitting resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u170	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. The national assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 3, 4, 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 and 11 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal of the Law on Intervention Measures to Support the Labour Market in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 7. (The vote was 53.)(against 7.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal of the Law on Emergency Measures to mitigate the consequences of the impact of high energy prices under the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 21 February 2022, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SAB Group to Article 4. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 53. (For the vote was 25.)(against 53.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 5 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendments of the SDS, NSI and, in particular, the amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the same Article 2 and 3 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 46. (For the vote was 37.)(against 46.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and, in particular, Article 5(2). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the same Article under number 3 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 7. (The vote was 46.)(against 7.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the SDS, NSI and in particular Article 5 under Article 2 was adopted, the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the same Article under Article 3 became irrelevant. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 5 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mrs Nataša Sukić.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u171	Thank you very much. It's still cold out there, people are still alive, and at least at evenings, the cooling is being prepared, still before the dilemma, or the radiator, oven, or starved. Many are faced with this dilemma. As they were before this dilemma in October of the month, when the cooling started, and when energy prices flew to the sky and we warned about this in Levica, we called an urgent meeting and you did not listen to us to act. The opposition then introduced its law to help people in a just way. You didn't listen to us. Now there is a law before us that is not the most just. While we are pleased that we have somehow been bitten, and that you have accepted one of our amendments, which thus equates those households that have been wrongly treated as business customers with those of other households so that people do not pay twice or three times the price of energy. But that's not enough. We have also proposed other amendments in Levica to correct this law in a way that is truly just. We have proposed that it should take effect 15 days after its adoption, when it could help people in particular. No, it didn't go through either. You will pay this assistance of 150 euros 9 days before the elections. Let each one explain to himself why. Then we proposed that you correct those target groups that will be recipients, that it would be fair to look at the real incomes of households, but not that all after one who really needs help is not saying no, and one who is not, but their only merit is that they have a large enough family, it is said, enough children, even if they are ministers, Members, etc., which is unheard of. Many, however, who really need help on minimum wages will not, for example, receive. And the third thing that's problematic is that you're taking money from the climate fund, a fund that's designed for a fair green transition and it's not intended for social adjustment, or it can be aimed at combating energy poverty, if you're doing it in a systematic, systematic way, which is not a single aid. For all these reasons, we will not oppose the law on behalf of the poorest, but we support it, and we cannot support such obvious pre-election manipulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u172	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda – second reading of the proposal for a law on measures to mitigate the consequences of rising energy prices in the economy and agriculture in the context of the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 2. 2022, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD and SAB groups to Article 2. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 10 in particular. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 6. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 10. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 45. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are done with the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 10 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that, due to the amendments adopted to the second reading of the proposal, the law would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of Investments under the Emergency Procedure. As we have not been introduced to the second reading of the amendments to the amended bill, we are moving on to the third reading of the proposal of the law, this is to decide on the proposal of the law. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that, due to the amendments adopted on the domestic working body of the proposal, the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Health Inspection Act in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments to the draft law and since the amendments to the final decision have not been tabled, we are moving on to the third reading of the law, this is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 38. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 21 February 2022, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the NSI, SDS and Article 2 in particular. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 1. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the NSI, SDS and Article 3 in particular. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the NSI, SDS and Article 3a in particular. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the NSI, SDS and Article 4 in particular. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the NSI, SDS and Article 5 in particular. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the NSI, SDS and Article 6 in particular. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the NSI, SDS and Article 7 in particular. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 2, 3, 3a, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the amended proposal. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? [[No, no, ……]] I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent working body, proposes to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the following decision be adopted: “The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act.” We vote on this proposal for a decision. 82 Members and Members attended, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda – the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on State Border Control, within the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour force to the draft law and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 7. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda – the first consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act is suitable for further consideration." Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Nataša Sukič.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u173	Yes, thank you very much. In Levica, we stand firm in the view that this proposal is not suitable for further consideration, even if we look at what manipulations are taking place with fracking. Five times – five times – we have fought to ban fracking, so we have a clear majority in the National Assembly, 47 votes, to ban fracking altogether, but of course, that you have disproportionately many voices in your working bodies, which does not reflect reality, means that you run over, not that 10 members, after the coalition, who are unjustly in the working body, are overpowered by 47 members in the National Assembly. So selling a story about there being a large and less extensive fracking is really a story for children, just like the fairy tale was, what you were selling after Prekmurje, that in Levica we wanted to ban some wells for geothermal waters and I don't know what you were scaring people. In short, that's all you do, you play and scare people, and then in the PKP package, you're still trying to frame the fact that you extended the Ascent Ressources concession for 18 months, a concession that would have expired this May. And then you'll talk and wonder, yeah, and then they'll sue us at some tribunal. You're giving them grounds to sue us, you've extended their lives for 18 months. All your treachery and today's announcement of a Phantom amendment, which is supposed to even speak in such a way as to completely ban the cracking, I don't believe you. You can't be trusted. You have pissed us five times, you have not heard the opinion of the Council of State, nor the opinion of the municipality of Lendava, nor the calls of the local population, nor of non-governmental organizations, however, nor of the opposition. How do you imagine anyone else can believe you? Your phantom promises, how will you all of a sudden ban the fracking with the amendment? But why didn't you already write it in this law, and it forbids you loud and clear? It's not like you're kidding and talking about cracking. Up to 9,000 999 cubic metres, but over 10,000 a cup of water doesn't. Well, I'm asking you nicely, aren't I?Oh, my God! In short, we will not allow you to make Petišovec another Groningen, Groningen, which has a comparable composition of soil such as the Petišovci soil and where earthquakes occur and the Netherlands has put a moratorium on cracking, 200 companies have banned it from cracking because the buildings of the local population are destroyed by earthquakes. And we're not gonna let the Petisovs become the other Groningen. This law must be banned today and reinstated immediately and adopted in a swift manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u174	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Dejan Židan in the name of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u175	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, welcome! Current legislation does not protect Prekmurje and does not protect Slovenia from harmful fracking technology. The current law, which is before us with a solution as written also does not protect Prekmurje and also does not protect Slovenia from harmful fracturing, because it only speaks of a large fracturing. This time, however, the Secretary of State announced that the government would agree, in the course of the procedure, to fully prohibit harmful fracking. Harmful fracking for hydrocarbons, which was our proposal five times already. As representatives of the opposition, we have also announced that we will also come with our proposal to prevent harmful fracking in all its forms. We were already deceived because they were promises, but the worst thing would be if we didn't do anything. That is why we will abstain in the Group of Social Democrats, allowing the competent committee to adopt any amendment, or amendment of the opposition or amendment of the government, to fully prevent harmful fracking for the needs of hydrocarbons. And I believe that the magnetograms of today's session will be available, and video recordings of today's session will also be available, and this time I really urge you to hold on to the words given in Parliament also on the committee responsible. So, we're not going to interfere with the law going on with the desire for the fracking to be definitively banned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Victory of Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u177	Thank you very much. We are in favour of not destroying nature in Slovenia. Unfortunately, nature is being destroyed in several areas. And one of these areas is also in Prekmurje, where you want to keep the so-called fracking, although it is not exactly the same as the classic one, but we do not allow the Slovenian landscape to be destroyed. In Croatia we have seen what was happening due to similar interventions to the ground and in Petrinj, these earthquakes are largely due to the interventions the Croatian government has been doing in its territory. We want the debate to open up on the committee, to open the debate and that the professional public, the first professional public, to say something about it, and to clarify the concepts on the one hand, and then to see the answers to the fact that the concession has been extended for many months. I think it is essential that we discuss this, that we find out what is true and that is why we will vote for the law to go forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u178	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Ferenc Horvath Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u179	In my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u180	Then on behalf of the Mag Group of Members. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u181	Yeah. Thank you very much. It won't look like this law only governs fracking or banning or non-prohibition. This law regulates a number of other matters and regulates them in law or in the right direction. But we, too, want to see on the committee first the solution that the Secretary of State has given here today or promised that this solution will be on the table. Because we want the law to go forward because of other things that are in law, we will abstain from voting today.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Robert Pavšič has the floor on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u183	Thank you. In fact, many things have been said in the past five similar sessions today. And today it's really just about whether we let the government side have a chance to fulfill its promise without a fig in its pocket, or not. Therefore, today, even though we are abstaining against the proposed law in the form it is, we will be absolved. We will not oppose him in his first reading. We will let the law go through the second reading and to the committee, where we will surely once again listen to everything we have heard six times today, but it is primarily about giving the government a chance to fulfill its promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. In my own name, I see there's still some interest. Okay, I'll start the list, and please report to the person who wants to explain your voice in your own name. Applications are under way. The first one has the word Ferenc Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u185	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Have a good day. [[address in Hungarian]] So, as the only Member actually living in a narrower area to which fracking relates, unfortunately, I cannot support this law. I think our community has had a lot of negative fracking experiences in the past. I know they're explaining things a little differently now, but I think fracking is bad for Slovenia, for our area. Of course, I am aware of the importance of concessions and possible harmful consequences, as long as the law is not adopted, but I cannot support this law because of the fracking issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The word is Dusan Shisko.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u187	Thank you, Chairman. Given that I have listened to the position today and I have not been clear on everything, I have now received at least a few partial answers, and this time I will support the bill. However, as long as we don't see those amendments that you promised us to get amendments to the table, I'm sure I'll tell you today that me and the SNS will not support such a law at the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u188	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u189	Thank you for your word, President. I'll vote against it. Because, after two years of this government and its rule, after all the subsets in the PKP, after extending the concession for 18 months, after the last discussion here, which we had today for several hours, I simply do not believe that the solution will go in the right direction. Yes, this law also deals with some useful things about mining, but as far as fracking in Petišovci is concerned and as far as the subject is concerned, if there were any good intentions on that side, we would have supported our five attempts long ago or, more recently, this amendment would have been shown earlier. So that I simply have no conscience to press the button for or that I am abstaining and to allow harmful policies that endanger human health and nature, and I will simply vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Nick Prebil has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u191	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues! The law is absolutely the same as it is now, of course I can't support it. However, this is the first consideration of this law and, given what we have heard from the Government, this time after our five attempts, but still, we will make an amendment to this, of course, in the opposition once again, because this government cannot be trusted. We've seen what this National Assembly has already confirmed, but it's not accepted. However, as long as fracturing is not completely prohibited in this law, what should have been once before, I think that any political party in this National Assembly could pursue the goal of living in a healthy and clean environment, without having some foreign society here destroying nature and carrying money. And as long as fracting is not completely prohibited and, also, the distinguished Secretary of State, unless you legally simply regulate concessions as it should be, without introducing any privileged groups and concessionaires on this law, I will not support this law in any way and I will vote against it, but this time I will abstain from the law in view of the fact that it is the first hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u192	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 41 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda – the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the national programme for culture 2022-2029. We shall proceed with the decision on the amendment tabled, which shall be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 22. 2. 2022, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Chapter 9 – common objectives for all areas of culture. Explanation of vote, only Bevk, on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u193	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! With the proposed amendment, the national programme for culture will only be able to obtain it. With this amendment, we place the highest quality cultural heritage in the national programme, which has European and global recognition of exceptional and universal value. These are the prehistoric cradles on the Iga on the Ljubljana Bar, the heritage of mercury in Idrija, the selected works of architect Jožet Plečnik in Ljubljana, the Church of the Holy Spirit in Javorca and the partisan hospital Franja near Cerknem, for which we would invest 20 million and 700 thousand euros between 2022 and 2029. The monuments are state, local and private. The national programme for culture defines national policy in one specific area, in this case in the field of culture, and this document is also correlated with cultural policy at local level. Therefore, the argument that the national programme does not include monuments owned locally or privately does not stand and stand on very torn feet. The fact is that the Legislative and Legal Service also accepted this amendment without comment when it was in committee and plenary. The national programme and Article 102 of the Law on Public Interest in Culture are not excluded, but are complementary. If cultural heritage is one of the priority projects, then I expect both the Ministry of Culture and the Coalition to support this amendment, as it includes something of European, global and extraordinary universal value in the National Programme for Culture. The possession of monuments is of secondary importance here. The amendment has been properly tabled and is not contrary to the law. The national programme and the law are not excluded, as they will be able to use both the invitation to the holder of the monument and the invitation to tender in the procedure. The fact is, the coalition does not want to support the amendment just because the amendment's motion for an amendment is the opposition Group of Social Democrats. However, if you make a decision about the content of the message, you can press the key for it. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u194	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 39. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a full decision on the motions for a resolution. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body and at the meeting of the assembly, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Go get Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u195	Thank you for your word. The national programme for the culture of colleagues and colleagues is a strategic document that outlines who, how, for how much money will develop culture in this case for the next 7, 8 years, so there is no mention that it is worth considering in this area to consult with people living in culture, experts in the cultural and artistic field. One is that culture is a very specific sector. Secondly, because culture may have been the most abrasive of all industries in the last two years of the epidemic, much more attention is needed. What we have ahead of us is a government action taken on a horrage very quickly, that at the end of the mandate it can, in the model of the Long-Term Supply Act, be a hook made on this resolution, which has been waiting for a long time to be considered and confirmed, but this is not the only reason why we will oppose the adoption of this strategic document in the Left Group. We are going to be against this materially mainly because it cuts the opportunities for self-employed people to work in culture, which we know is estimated to represent a pool of almost 90 per cent of all employees in culture and because it cuts the opportunities for non-governmental organisations to work in culture. A problematic reason and purpose to oppose this resolution is also the lack of public debate. 38 professional organisations or cultural organisations have announced this document to the Ministry of Culture and 38 ignorant responses have been received. The Minister did not include their views in the document itself. We now have, colleagues and colleagues, the Government, which has made its position and opinion on Slovenian culture very clear and clear in the last two years. She's been playing non-governmental organizations financially. She played STA, and critics, even if these individuals were only self-employed in culture, took away their status and in this way she played them financially. Canceled broadcasts on Radiotelevision Slovenia, which did not fit them. On the other hand, she rewarded religious servants with social security and so on. Such a Government of colleagues and colleagues cannot be trusted. The design of expert and strategic documents in the field of culture and media, which is why we will oppose this document in the Levica Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Lidija Divac Mirnik has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u197	Thank you, President, for your word. Why will we vote against this resolution in the LMŠ? This government has decided to commit the next two governments two months before the elections to a resolution on the national cultural programme of the next two governments. Of course, it has forgotten that it would be nice to involve stakeholders in particular those who, of course, say something in the cultural field and have decided to go in this resolution in fact to say that the emphasis on national identity, which is basically nothing wrong with the problem, but of course, then that it is a post-government issue. If we also ignore this pressure of culture within the ideological boundaries of this government all the time, in the document in LMŠ we lack mainly ambition to consider the emergence of Slovenian culture and art in the 21st century through the prism of modern technologies and, of course, through the prism of the current coven of the situation and, of course, also some modern art forms. In fact, the government just wants to strengthen, to say, this national identity. However, it does not like modern approaches or patterns of cultural action, where creativity, criticalness, political engagement, social cohesion are clearly lacking, and of course it does not want to do so, and of course it is not in this resolution as well. She also forgot that the document does not actually provide sufficient reflections on synergies between public, non-governmental and, last but not least, lovers. And all these things, of course, need to be driven in agreement with civil society and with artists and culturers, who, of course, have been in this area for quite some time and know something. All those projects listed in the resolution are fine with me, but I don't mind in principle. But what's interesting is that there's no Maribor castle in there, for example, but there's that famous museum of independence for 7 million. So it means that if we want to find the money, even if it's very ideologically colored. Therefore, as it is said, because this resolution is indeed based on ideology, as has been pointed out by all or a very professional public, we will vote against it in the LMŠ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr Branislav Rajić on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u199	Thank you very much. While the objectives set out in the resolution are desirable, most of them, but we fear that only the letter on paper will remain, because if we just expose this provision of cultural pluralism, what does it mean if it is provided by a government that has used every tool it can use to enforce its values, beliefs and views on the world. That's why this pluralism is simply seen as unprecedented singularism. And this makes it difficult for the government to trust that these goals will really be realized. Each of these objectives is followed by action plans. And it is because they are no longer within the jurisdiction of the National Assembly that we cannot be sure that they will be interpreted or misinterpreted, because trust is no longer. [[Incomprehensible]] If I touch on the resolution itself, it is too loose, it is too strategic, it is too weak to address the systemic shortcomings of the current cultural model, it does not predict a comprehensive cultural transformation, which is also a major weakness and, of course, it does not adequately address the non-governmental sector and the self-employed in culture. To top it is too ideological and, as such, we do not have to support it in the SAB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u200	Thank you very much. The victory of Jelinčič in the name of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u201	National identity is the one that enables people to survive and live. If we do not declare national identity as it is in this resolution, then we do not have a future. The fact is, we can't base everything together on some NGOs that say they're artists, but in my opinion, two of them get undressed in front of the Ministry of Culture, that's not art. And if that girl were at least beautiful, there'd still be a way for a man to miss. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u202	Comrade Jelinčič, please, no such statements. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u203	But it's also about not being able to allow as required by one prominent professor at the Faculty of Social Sciences, who even Slovenians are not supposed to perform Slovenian national fun music by blacks and gays in order to make it more [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u204	Comrade Jelinczych!
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u205	interesting [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u206	Hold on!
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u207	President, I quote. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u208	Abstaining Xenophobia [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u209	Quoting what has been published [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u210	Hold on to that!
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u211	Stop yelling in there! The fact is, we have to take care of our national identity. And a lot of people make mistakes in the very school system that doesn't want to introduce national identity and that kids would be proud of it. They do not want to learn Slovenian. And what we have, the enclaves of "syptars" in Slovenia [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u212	My friend Jelinčič [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u213	where it is no longer used [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u214	reminder [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u215	Slovenian language. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u216	I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u217	So go on, go on, take them home, and have them there, and "further them," come on.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u218	Jelinčič Koleg Jelinčič [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u219	I mean, it's horrible what's going on here. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u220	Comrade Jelinčič, I give you a reminder. [[advertising from the hall]] I've given you a warning. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] My friend Jelinčič [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Comrade Jelinčič, let's calm down! [[advertising from the hall]] Comrade Jelinczych, calm down! [[advertising from the hall]] Explanation of voice. Comrade Jelinčič, this has now been over all the criteria of the Rules of Procedure. I took your word away, so please turn your phone off — excuse me — microphone [[…]] [[Laugh]] And the phone, too. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u221	I'm not gonna turn my phone off because [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u222	Yeah, you usually have your hands on, so you're playing. Is there anyone else who can explain the vote on behalf of the Group? [[No, no, ……]] In your own name, Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u223	Yes, thank you very much. I didn't mean to call, but I will. I'll vote against it. My reason, however, is that I will vote against it because I do not want Slovenian culture to look like this performance by the winner of Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukich in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u225	Thank you for your word, chairman. And I'm going to vote against it because I'm from Metelkova 6. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. [[advertising from the hall]] Is there anyone else who can explain? [[advertising from the hall]] Interrupting [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u227	Let me explain my voice. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u228	Wait, wait, wait, wait, buddy. Please turn off the microphone. I ask that if I invite you to come forward to explain your voice, to raise your hand clearly, and yes, I will, I will give you every word, I will not take it away from anyone. If I understand correctly, Violeta Tomic and Matthew T. Vatovec? [[No, no, ……]] Don't you? Okay. Violeta Tomic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Thank you for allowing me to explain my voice, for I dare say that I do get to know the culture a little bit, don't I? Now, the Ministry and this Government, which have been so ruthlessly encroaching on culture in this mandate for the past two years, is serving us the National Programme for Culture at the end of our term. Usually we've been taking it for four years, now it's a double dose, it's said that even when they are, I hope, and I believe, it won't be long before a document will be binding here and read as an ideological pamphlet. It's not addressing any modern challenges, it's a whole bunch of nice sayings, but they don't say anything about specific problems. Once again, we are witnessing the new stigmatization of NGOs, I will not go into debates, whether they appear to be artists or not, but, on the basis of information that at the time of the decline in birth, there are more and more self-employed people in culture, I would warn you of the savage overexercision of culture and the impossibility of the cultural position that this Government pays them, and this position has been so low all the time that when they retire, they have to live with 300 euros and, on the other hand, they give double to religious employees, [[sign for the end of the debate]] This is despite the fact that self-employed people in culture work and pay taxes. So, in no way can I support this proposal, which is adopted without dialogue, without public debate, without taking into account the comments of the interested public and again, as usual, the Government is from above, and they tell us how we should think and also what guidelines culture and art should have, which is by default. [[sign for the end of the debate]] critical, independent and should be free and independent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-22-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u230	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 37. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 95th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. In 10 minutes, a meeting of the College will begin at the Grand Salon, four o'clock.
